Document of
FIL copYs
The World Bank                              CAPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3205b-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HAITI
February 24, 1981
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1          =   G  5.00
G 1.0             US$0.20
G 1 million  =   US$200,000
Weights and Measures:             Metric
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2       =  0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km )      =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =  2,204 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year
October 1 to.September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAIPP           -    Administration de I'Aeroport International de Port-au-Prince
(International Airport Authority)
APN             -    Autorite Portuaire Nationale (National Port Authority)
formed as successor to Administration
Portuaire de Port-au-Prince
APP             -    Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince (Port-au-Prince
Port Administration)
BRH             -    Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti (National Bank
of the Republic of Haiti)
CONADEP         -    Conseil National de Development et de la Planification
(National Development Planning Council)
CSDS            -    Coastal Shipping Development Study
GRT             -    Gross Registered Tons
KfW             -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
IDA            -    International Development Association
IDB            -    Inter-American Development Bank
NTS             -    National Transport Study
SAT             -    Service Autonome des Transports (Autonomous Transport Service)
SEPRRN          -    Service de Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National
(National Road Maintenance Service)
TPTC            -    Secretairerie des Travaux Publics des Transports et de
Communication (Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
Communications)
UNDP            -    United Nations Development Program



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HAITI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Background        .      .       ...............................................  1
B.  The Transport System . ...............................           ... .        2
C.  Transport Investments and Priorities                .                         3
D.  Institutional Framework.              .    . ................................  4
E.  Past IDA Assistance to the Transport Sector    ............                    5
II.  THE MARITIME SUBSECTOR
A.  International Ports and Maritime Services .                                   6
B.  International Port Development Program .....................                  7
C.  Present Coastal Shipping System.....                                          9
D.  Coastal Shipping Development Program. . ...                                   9
E.  Port Administration ...............              .....................    11
F. Port Financial Management .......                                             13
G.  Government Support to Maritime Sector              . . .....                 15
tII. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.  Objectives and General Description                 ......                    15
B.  Cost Estimates and Financing .................... o ........ . .             16
C.  Cap Haitien Terminal Facilities. . ..                           .....        18
D.   Coastal Shipping Ports .           ....................          .          19
E. Port of Jeremie ......  21
F.  Port-au-Prince Development Program                 ...........               21
G.  Institutional Development and Studies              .....                     22
H.  Execution, Procurement and Disbursements                ......               22
I.  Project Monitoring              ..     . ...................           .     23
J. Environmental Impact.....                                                     23
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General .............f..    23
B. Forecast of Future Traffic                   . . .24
C.  Evaluation of Cap Haitien Facilities               .    ........       .     25
D. Evaluation of Coastal Shipping Ports                .. .26
E. Overall Project Evaluation .                    .                             27
F. Risks .........                                          ..27
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Peter Engelmann (Senior Transport
Engineer), Bengt Bostrom (Senior Transport Economist) and Tamas Markus
(Financial Analyst) and Ms. Beatrice Buyck (Research Assistant) on the basis
of an appraisal mission in June-July 1980 and a supplementary appraisal mission
in September 1980. The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1     Outline of Proposed Technical Assistance .....       ............  63-65
2     Functions and Responsibilities of a National
Maritime Agency ......................*.*........... ..   66
3     Traffic Forecasts and Economic Evaluation         ................  67-71
4     Assumptions on Financial Forecasts - Detailed Results
of the Projections         ....................................  72-80
5     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  ....  81
CHARTS
1     World Bank 22214, Present Organization of APN
2     World Bank 22215, Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 13293R - General Map of Haiti
IBRD 15245 - Caribbean Cruise Routes
IBRD 15246 - Cap Haitien - Proposed Port Development
IBRD 15247 - Coastal Shipping - Proposed System and Ports



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Recent Financial Performance of APN         .....................    28
B.  Financial Objectives of APN .............................    29
C.  Financial Forecasts .....................................    30
D.  Project Financing and Balance Sheet Projections .........        32
E.  Sensitivity Analysis .. .................................    33
F.  Long-Term Financial Obligations of APN and Proposed
On-Lending Terms ......................................    34
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................    35
TABLES:
1.1   Transport Sector Investment Program FY 1976/77-1980/81 ....  38
1.2   Road Transport Investment Program FY 1979/80-1983/84 ......   39
2.1   Recent International Cargo Movements Through
Port-au-Prince ..................   *.......................................   40
2.2   Recent Coastal Shipping Ports Traffic .......o    ............  41
3.1   Project Cost Estimate Breakdown (4 pages) .... .o_o.......   42-45
3.2   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .... o ..... o...........   46
4.1   Analysis of Port Traffic at Cap Raitien .         .............   47
4.2   Analysis of Projected Coastal Shipping Port Traffic  oo ....  48
4.3   Evaluation of Costs and Benefits of Cap Haitien Port
Project:  Basis for Calculations (1985) (2 pages)  - ..... 49-50
4.4   Calculation of Costs and Benefits of Cap Haitien Port
Project (1980-1995) .... o............ ..*....   -o.............................  51
4.5   Details of Economic Evaluation of Coastal Ports Savings
in Transport Cost 1985 ..oo   ................. .............  52
4.6   Costs and Benefits of Coastal Shipping Ports ..............       53
4.7   Summary of Economic Returns and Sensitivity Test . ........  54
5.1   APN Income Statements 1976-1980  .......................   55
5.2   Port-au-Prince International Operations, Income
Projections ........ ............. .     ...................   56
5.3   Port-au-Prince International Operations, Sources and
Applications of Fund Projections ........................  57
5.4   Cap Haitien, Income Projections  _..-            ...................  58
5.5   Cap Haitien, Sources and Applications of Funds Projections    59
5.6   Coastal Shipping Ports, Income Projections ........  o  .......  60
5.7   Coastal Shipping Ports, Sources and Applications of
Funds Projections ... ... .. ... ...... ......... -. ... ..........  61
5.8   APN Consolidated Balance Sheet 1979-1985 .62






Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1    Outline of Proposed Technical Assistance .......... ........ 63-65
2    Functions and Responsibilities of a National
Maritime Agency ..........................................  66
3    Traffic Forecasts and Economic Evaluation ................ 67-71
4    Assumptions on Financial Forecasts - Detailed Results
of the Projections ....................................  72-80
5     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ....  81
CHARTS
1    World Bank 22214, Present Organization of APN
2    World Bank 22215, Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 13293R - General Map of Haiti
IBRD 15245 - Caribbean Cruise Routes
IBRD 15246 - Cap Haitien - Proposed Port Development
IBRD 15247 - Coastal Shipping - Proposed System and Ports






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Background
1.01       Haiti i! a relatively small country; it covers an area of approx-
imately 27,800 km and is situated on the western thyrd of the Island of
Hispaniola. The country has a shoreline of 1,530 km , or more than 1 km per
20 km of land area. The interior, however, is very mountainous: 40% of
the land is above 500 m in altitude. Only some 60% of the land is suitable
for cultivation, and agricultural areas are widely dispersed. Total popu-
lation2is estimated at approximately 5 million. With some 180 inhabitants
per km and a per capita income of about US$260, it is one of the most
densely populated and one of the poorest countries of the world. Haiti is
still a predominantly rural society; according to the most recent estimates,
urban population accounted for only about 25% of total population. The
urbanization process is dominated by the growth of the Port-au-Prince
metropolitan area, where over 70% of the total urban population is
concentrated; the development of provincial towns falls far behind. Besides
Port-au-Prince, with a total population of approximately 900,000, there are
seven provincial centers ranging in size from 20,000 to 60,000 inhabitants
and 61 smaller towns, many of them poorly served by the present transportation
system (Map IBRD 13293R).
1.02       The country's location, its rugged terrain, its long coast line,
the dispersion of its agricultural production and the dominance of one city
determine the characteristics of Haiti's transport system and underscore the
importance of the transport sector in the country's economy. In external
trade, maritime transport accounts for over 98% of Haiti's freight tonnage;
the balance is moved by air or by land transport to the Dominican Republic.
Over the years, Port-au-Prince has developed into the major international
shipping center of the country. Although important tonnages such as bauxite,
petroleum products, wheat and cement are also handled at specialized private
terminals elsewhere, Port-au-Prince handles 95% of the country's general
cargo imports and exports. International passenger traffic is moved mainly
by air and by cruise ships. The latter serve Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien
and bring an important number of one-day tourists to the country (close to
200,000 in 1978) (Map IBRD 15245).
1.03       Internal transport moves primarily by road and is largely
concentrated on a few recently reconstructed primary roads, such as the
North Road (Map IBRD 13293R).   The concentration of international shipping
activity and population in Port-au-Prince has a major bearing on the internal
transport demand. Haiti's road network deteriorated drastically during the
1960s; this situation contributed greatly to the spatial imbalance which
characterizes Haiti's pattern of economic and social development. Since 1971,
the Government has recogrized the importance of transport and has given
priority to the reconstruction and improvement of transport infrastructure;
maintenance of basic road network has, however, remained inadequate. Besides
roads, coastal shipping accounts for 18% of domestic freight movements.
Domestic air travel is light. It serves tourists primarily and, to a lesser
extent, Government officials and the local business community.



-2-
B.   The Transport System
(i) General Perspective
1.04      As mentioned in paragraph 1.03, the Government, in the early 1970s,
recognized the role of the transport sector in the development of the country's
economy and accorded priority to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
transport infrastructure. In 1975, the Government agreed to the execution of
a national transport survey; subsequently, the National Transport Study (NTS),
for which the World Bank was executing agency, was carried out between 1975
and 1977, with a UNDP grant of US$600,000. After analyzing future transport
demand, the NTS recommended a transport policy adapted to the country's needs
and potential. The study concluded that, after rehabilitation of existing
roads, highest priority areas consisted of: (a) improvement of international
and domestic shipping facilities at Cap Haitien; and (b) expansion and
development of coastal ports, as an alternative to more costly road connections.
The Government has adopted the NTS recommendations as part of its national
transport policy in the second Five-Year Plan for 1977-1981 (Table 1.1).
(ii) Maritime Transport
1.05      Haiti's foreign trade is served predominantly by foreign-owned
shipping lines through the port of Port-au-Prince. In FY 1978/79, about
840,000 tons were handled in Port-au-Prince, of which 373,000 moved through
private facilities and 467,000 through the recently modernized commercial port
which is managed by the National Port Authority (APN). Since 1973, investments
in international port facilities have been concentrated in Port-au-Prince.
Cap Haitien, the second international port of the country, has not seen any
major improvements since 1953, although the port is vital to the economy of
the north.
1.06      Domestic coastal shipping has traditionally played a significant
role as a means of internal transport in Haiti. While the ongoing rehabili-
tation of the road system will tend to reduce the relative share of water-
borne traffic, the continuing importance of domestic maritime trade has
been recognized (para 1.04), and an increase in coastal shipping traffic
is expected. The maritime subsector is dealt with in detail in Chapter II
following.
(iii) Road Network
1.07      The inter-city road network totals 3,725 km of motorable roads, of
which 750 km are paved, 1,715 km are surfaced with natural gravel and the
balance consists of earth tracks, most of which are less than 4.5 m wide
(Map IBRD 13293R). As mentioned, it was not until the early 1970s that the
Government accorded priority to the rehabilitation and improvement of the
basic road network. Today, much of the main network has been improved,
but the rehabilitation of some bridges and some old paved and secondary roads
and the necessary improvements of some priority roads are still pending. In
1979, the motor vehicle fleet numbered 30,200 units. Vehicle ownership is
Iawt six, vehicles -er 1,000 tnhabitants, the lowest of the entite Latitn
America and Caribbean Region. Although accurate statistics of vehicle regis-
tration are not available, the NTS analysis for 1975-1977 (para 1.04) indicated



- 3 -
that the fleet expands by 10% p.a. on average. Imports of new and used vehicles
have increased steadily in recent years; in the 1975-1978 period, over 15,000
vehicles were imported, increasing from 2,721 in 1975 to 4,989 in 1978. The
price of gasoline has been increased to US$1.85 per gallon. Gasoline taxes
and import taxes on vehicles provide the major income from road user charges.
1.08      Almost half of the vehicles in circulation carry a combination
of goods and passengers. Traffic flows are largely concentrated on a few main
roads, e.g., the North Road, as mentioned in paragraph 1.03. About half of
the network carries fewer than ten vehicles per day (vpd); 10% carries between
10 and 50 vpd and 40% carries more than 50 vpd. Substantial tonnages are
carried by human porters and pack animals, mostly along country trails.
Port-au-Prince is the center of the road transport system; in 1979, some 90%
of vehicles were registered in Port-au-Prince; the origin and destination
surveys conducted during the NTS showed that 64% of all trips, representing 85%
of total tonnage and 72% of total passengers, had their origin in Port-au-Prince.
(iv) Air Transport
1.09      The share of air transport in total traffic in Haiti is small but
important (para 1.03) since Haitian export-oriented industry, especially
the assembly industry, has performed dynamically in recent years. In 1978,
about 24,000 tons of cargo were handled by the international airport of
Port-au-Prince. In addition, 360,000 arriving and departing passengers were
channeled through the airport. The international airport of Port-au-Prince
is managed under contract by a foreign airline (American Airlines), and its
main runway was recently extended to 3,000 meters. Most of the international
traffic is carried by foreign airlines. The nation's second airpert is
located at Cap Haitien; it has a runway of 1,500 m, which was paved recently;
expansion of this airport is envisaged in the future to accommodate tourism
and industry development of the area. Domestic air traffic, as indicated in
paragraph 1.03, is light and is served by Haiti Air Inter. Another local
company, Air Haiti, handles international cargo needs with C-46 and jet aircraft.
(v) Railways
1.10      Haiti has about 75 km of rail line running from Leogane to Plaine
de Cul de Sac via Port-au-Prince. This railroad is owned and operated by
HASCO, the Haitian American Sugar Company, and is used exclusively for the
transport of sugar cane. In the 1979/80 harvest year, 400,000 tons of
sugarcane were transported by this system.
C.   Transport Investments and Priorities
1.11      In the first Five-Year Plan (FY1970/71-1975/76), the Government
focused upon the need to supplement the productive sectors of the economy with
adequate transport infrastructure and, accordingly, included expenditures that
reflected the needs in that area. Today, transport investments account for
about 23% of the Government's second Five-Year Plan (FY1976/77-1980/81)
(Table 1.2). In an effort to correct the spatial imbalances which characterize
the country, the Government aims primarily at further reconstruction and
improvement of the road network and at expanding the coastal shipping services



-4-
in order to integrate presently isolated community centers and rural areas and
to achieve a better balance between Port-au-Prince and the provincial towns.
As a result of this strategy, much of the main road network has already been
improved; the main road from Cap Haitien via Port-au-Prince to Les Cayes and
Jacmel has been constructed; further improvements, however, especially to
secondary roads, are required. In addition, the ongoing urbanization process
calls for adequate infrastructure investments, particularly in the Port-au-
Prince metropolitan area. The 1979-1984 road improvement program proposed
by the Autonomous Transport Service (SAT) includes an investment (in 1978
prices) of approximately US$3 million for the construction of paved roads
and about US$33.5 million for the construction of gravel roads (Table 1.2).
1.12      With regard to coastal shipping, the Government has adopted the
NTS proposed strategy to develop provincial ports as an alternative to more
costly road projects. New terminals for shallow draft vessels are under
construction at Port-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix and Jeremie, and a further
expansion of the system is envisaged.
1.13      Tourism accounts for an important share of Haiti's gross foreign
exchange earnings; in 1979, it represented more than one-third of merchandise
exports. It also constitutes an important source of employment generation.
The development of the tourist sector has been hampered in the past by the
lack of suitable air and land transportation. However, the recently completed
and ongoing improvements of internal transport infrastructure and other
efforts by the Government at improving tourism, e.g., transport-oriented
facilities such as the improvement of the Port-au-Prince airport and the
planned Cap Haitien port expansion, should contribute actively to the further
development of the sector.
D.   Institutional Framework
1.14      Overall responsibility for transport investment lies with the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (TPTC), but the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, the Bank of the Republic of Haiti
(BRH), the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and, since 1978, the Ministry
of Planning are also closely involved.
1.15      The Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, assisted by the
Governor of BRH, is responsible for monitoring port development and operations,
for customs services and for the collection of transportation taxes. The
Ministry of Commerce and Industry oversees airport operations through the
Civil Aviation Service, which regulates air transport and domestic airports.
The Ministry of Planning defines national development strategy and reviews,
consolidates and coordinates the proposals of various ministries and agencies.
In addition to these ministries, three autonomous agencies have been formed in
response to particular needs: the National Port Authority (APN, previously
APP); the International Airport Authority (AAIPP) and the National Road
Maintenance Service (SEPRRN).
1.16      TPTC's responsibilities, as defined by law of June 17, 1971,
include - in addition to roads and bridges - public buildings, zoning and
construction regulations, city streets and public utilities. The increase in
transport investment and the proposals of external lending agencies led to the



- 5 -
establishment of three specialized services within TPTC: the National
Laboratory of Public Works, responsible for materials testing and standards;
the Construction Service and Coordination Unit, responsible for contract
supervision; and SAT, responsible for planning, engineering and coordination.
SAT was established in December 1975 and acts as a sectoral planning unit and
a highway planning and engineering office. Since its establishment, SAT has
cooperated with the Ministry of Planning on rescheduling NTS projects, con-
solidating them with urban projects and other development priorities to form
the transport sector investment program for the current Five-Year Plan (1977-
1981). In addition, SAT is involved in project preparation and supervision;
it prepared the transport inputs for the current National Development Plan and
presently supervises consulting services for the proposed projects. The
organization and staffing proposed for SAT provided for project engineering
and design mostly by consultants, with supervision and coordination ensured by
SAT. SAT, furthermore, conducts annual traffic counts and prepares designs
for street improvements in Port-au-Prince. In highways, SAT is responsible
for planning and programing highway improvements and related expenditures, for
updating road inventory, and for the systematic collection of traffic data.
E.   Past IDA Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.17      The Bank Group has made one loan and extended four credits to
Haiti for road improvement, totaling US$48 million since 1956. The last
credit, extended in 1978, also included a coastal shipping component.
1.18      Bank Group involvement in the Haiti transport sector began with
a Bank Highway Loan (Loan 141-HA, US$2.6 million, 1956) for a Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project which involved about 1,000 km of roads. The second
operationi (Credit 32-HA, US$350,000, 1962) for an Interim Highway Project was
to complete works undertaken under the first project. The third and fourth
operations (Credit 478-HA, US$10 million, 1974 and Credit 556-HA, US$20
million, 1975) included the NTS, reconstruction of the Northern Road and
rehabilitation of major bridges.
1.19      The fifth transport operation (Credit 807-HA, US$15 million, 1978)
consists of a road and bridge component and a coastal shipping component.
The road and bridge component comprises essentially the upgrading of 54 km
of roads in the Northern Plains region and of a feeder road to the port of
Jeremie, and the reconstruction of two major bridges. The coastal shipping
part includes a pilot port project which will provide new terminals for
shallow draft vessels at Port-au-Prince, Port-de-Paix and Jeremie at a total
cost of US$3.5 million. The praject, which constitutes the initiation of the
Bank Group's activity in the Haiti coastal shipping system, is proceeding
satisfactorily; it is discussed in detail in Chapter II.



II. THE MARITIME SUBSECTOR
A.   International Ports and Maritime Services
2.01      International shipping was served at numerous small ports in Haiti
up to the 1950s. While the 1962 Customs Code still recognizes 25 coastal
ports, of which 12 are "open to foreign trade," international shipping
and trading patterns changed in the 1960s, and, with the centralization of
commercial activities in the capital, the terminal at Port-au-Prince has
become the major center for maritime transport of Haiti. At present, the only
public berthing facilities in Haiti which can accommodate general cargo and
tourist vessels of conventional size (e.g., with about 9 m draft) are at
Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien; these two ports are expected to remain the
primary public terminals for the country's maritime exports, imports and
tourism. While both ports receive regular calls by tourist ships, only
Port-au-Prince has significant international freight services at present.
2.02      The international port at Port-au-Prince has modern facilities for
general cargo and container vessels, completed in 1978 with Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) financing at a cost of US$20 million; they consist of
a marginal wharf 460 m in length (effectively used as three berths), with
depths alongside of 9.52m; this terminal has a container crane, two modern
transit sheds (11,200 m total area), and ample paved yard areas. In addi-
tion, the port has two ramps for Ro-Ro 1/ vessels and a finger pier with
two berths for major tourist ships. The tourist pier is connected to the
shore by a 10 m wide pier which can provide additional berthing space for
three medium-sized cargo vessels and which has been reconstructed recently
(at a cost of US$5 million); this space is frequently used for cargo
traffic and also serves as the main access for tourist passengers and taxis;
this frequently causes congestion and hazardous operating conditions. On
the whole, however, international operations at this port are well organized
and adequate for current needs; regular calls by container lines (CAROL,
Sealand, Seatrain) and general cargo vessels are handled rapidly and with
reasonable efficiency, moving nearly a half million tons in 1979 (a summary
of recent cargo movements through Port-au-Prince is given in Table 2.1).
The port operates on two six-hour shifts (7AM to 7PM) weekdays and one
six-hour shift Saturdays at normal rates, but overtime work (at premium
rates) is frequent. The six berths used for cargo operations had an average
occupancy rate of 55% during 1979, and ship waiting time has been minimal
since the new facilities became operational. A very high proportion of
Haiti's international trade is carried in containers, as indicated by the
following:
1974     1979
Percentage of Exports Containerized             66        87
Percentage of Imports Containerized             49        59
Percentage of All Cargo Containerized           54        67
1/   Roll-On/Roll-Off:  for movement of containers on chassis.



- 7 -
2.03      Cap Haitien's terminal facilities (Map IBRD 15246) were constructed
in 1952/53 and comprise a marginal wharf in two sections. One is for
international traffic (181 m length), effectively one berth designed for
tourism and general cargo vessels of up to 9 m (27 ft.) draft; this section
is equipped with a narrow transit shed and a 30-ton derrick. The other
section (87 m length) is shallower (1.5-3.0 m) and is used mostly by coastal
shipping and small pleasure craft. The terminal also has several small
buildings, a sugar warehouse and a molasses tank. The wharf is of steel
sheetpile construction, does not have corrosion protection and is in an
advanced stage of deterioration despite remedial measures recently attempted
by APN. Tourist ships are the only regular traffic at the international
wharf at present (normally two vessels per week). Nearly all cargo through
the port is currently handled by coastal vessels.
B. International Port Development Program
2.04      The most urgent needs for improvement of port facilities serving
international traffic in Haiti are at Cap Haitien because of the deteriorated
condition of the existing wharf structure and because of prospects for
significant increases in trade which could not be accommodated with present
capacity constraints. Since the port of Cap Haitien is expected to play a
major role in the development of agriculture, industry and tourism in the
northern region of the country, the repair and expansion of this port, already
recommended in 1977 by the NTS (para 1.04), are considered among the highest
priority investments in the transport sector of Haiti.
2.05      Financing was, therefore, provided under Credit 807-HA for prepara-
tion of a long-range port development plan for Cap Haitien and a feasibility
study for the first phase of recommended construction. To undertake this
work, APN selected a French consulting firm (Bureau Central d'Etude pour les
Equipements D'OutreMer, BCEOM), which, in 1979, surveyed existing conditions,
assessed alternative development schemes and recommended a program of port
improvements, which was discussed with representatives of the local community
and APN officials. Upon general agreement regarding the recommended port
development program, BCEOM prepared preliminary engineering designs, economic
and financial analyses and a final report on the next stage of port develop-
ment, which constitutes the major part of the proposed project described in
Chapter III. Detailed engineering designs for this work were contracted by
APN (with the same consulting firm) in July 1980 and are expected to be
completed by March 1981.
2.06      The need for expansion of the international port at Port-au-Prince,
while less urgent than the development of Cap Haitien because of recently
completed terminal facilities financed by IDB (para 2.02), nevertheless
requires study because of a variety of prospective trade developments and
physical changes in the immediate vicinity of the port, which should be
coordinated with port activities. Among the factors to be considered at
Port-au-Prince are expansion of a central market complex 1/ and major road
1/   An urban project for which the Association is considering lending.



-8-
improvements adjacent to the international terminal, construction of a new
coastal shipping terminal (under Credit 807-HA, para 2.11), proposals to
create an international Free Trade Zone within the port, expansion of con-
tainer-related terminal activities, and possibilities of establishing a
transshipment center at this port for the distribution of container traffic
within the Caribbean region. Since there were no firm plans for the expansion
of port terminal facilities at Port-au-Prince, APN retained consultants (J.C.
Buckley, Inc.) to study alternatives, in the light of prospective traffic and
the factors mentioned above, and to prepare a general plan for development of
the port of Port-au-Prince. This plan is to provide a basis for the phased
construction of port facilities and a program of future investments, to serve
both foreign and domestic trade, and to define future uses of the land and
water areas under APN's jurisdiction so that land-use controls can be imple-
mented effectively and coordinated with related activities. The Port-au-Prince
planning study, begun in late 1979, is nearly completed at this time, and
provides a good basis for decisions on the next phase of port development.
During negotiations, a time frame for terminal expansion at Port-au-Prince was
agreed, and adoption of a general land-use plan would be a condition for
disbursement under the proposed project for the study and engineering work at
Port-au-Prince (para 3.20).
2.07      A subject of particular interest to APN has been the prospective
need for cargo-handling equipment at the existing international terminal of
Port-au-Prince, and the possibility of including financing for urgently
needed equipment at this port was considered during preparation of the
proposed ports project. The consultants retained for the port development
planning study at Port-au-Prince were therefore requested to make a detailed
analysis of present general cargo and container operations and to determine
the need, if any, for acquisition of additional equipment to expedite the
movement of imports and exports through the existing terminal. This subject
was covered in an Interim Report by the consultants (presented to APN prior
to the appraisal mission), which concluded that present equipment in the port
is generally sufficient and underutilized, except during occasional days of
peak traffic, and that prospective growth of imports and exports in the next
three to four years would not justify significant investment in cargo-handling
equipment. While major expansion of the terminal would probably be required
by 1985, such investment would require a combination of berth construction,
expansion of terminal areas and equipment acquisition (paras 3.19-3.20).
2.08      At both Cap Haitien and Port-au-Prince, questions of APN's legal
title to properties needed for proposed port developments and related issues
of effective control over future uses of land and water areas have been
raised, 1/ with potential impact on future port construction and operations.
These matters were particularly urgent at Cap Haitien, where a sugar company
(CALDOS) maintains terminal facilities within the existing port, which could
interfere with the proposed development. APN is taking steps to obtain clear
title to the properties involved.
1/   Similar problems may also exist at the coastal shipping port terminals
mentioned in paragraphs 2.11 and 2.14.



- 9-
C.   Present Coastal Shipping System
2.09      Despite an almost total absence of Government support for coastal
shipping over the past 30 years, there is significant activity in Haiti by
privately owned and operated sailboats and motorized vessels which plays an
important role in the country's domestic trade. Last year, there were 403
sailboats in Haiti, ranging in size from one to 70 DWT, and 15 motorboats,
ranging from 50 to 500 DWT, with a total carrying capacity (per trip) of over
12,000 tons (10,388 tons for sailboats, 2,160 tons for motorboats) and over
5,000 passengers (4,195 for sailboats, 1,071 for motorboats). In 1977, this
fleet carried an estimated 340,000 tons of freight and 317,000 passengers
among more than a dozen ports (Table 2.2). Service is largely on a sporadic
basis, responsive to demand, but several routes from Port-au-Prince to coastal
towns in the southern peninsula have regular service by motorized vessels.
2.10      This coastal trade complements internal land transport, which is
hazardous and costly in many parts of the country. However, the maritime
alternative, where it exists, also presents difficulties, such as:
(a) inadequacy of existing ports, even for small vessels;
(b) unsafe conditions of most of the fleet due to primitive
vessel construction methods, lack of maintenance and
repair facilities, and absence of effective inspection
and controls;
(c) inadequate operating crews and lack of training for
vessel operators;
(d) inability to obtain insurance coverage for vessels and
cargo; and
(e) absence of aids to navigation and of rescue services
for vessels in distress.
D.   Coastal Shipping Development Program
2.11      The proposal to expand and modernize domestic coastal shipping in
Haiti was made in 1977 by the NTS (para 1.04) and was adopted by the
Government at that time to complement the development of the country's road
transport system. In the NTS report, which compared overall economic costs
of land and maritime transport, the development of 19 coastal ports was
recommended; however, this recommendation was not based on a comprehensive
analysis of alternative systems that might be adopted for coastal shipping
services, nor was it established at the time which Government agency (or
agencies) would be made responsible for such port development and the required
parallel support of fleet services and auxiliary systems. It was therefore



- 10 -
decided to: (a) go forward initially with only three "pilot ports," at
locations where there was clear evidence of a need for terminal improvements,
even without decisions on an optimal system for coastal shipping services;
and (b) test the capability of the port administration of Port-au-Prince to
become an agency of national scope, with responsibilities for terminal
development at smaller communities along the coast. The three pilot ports
selected were Port de Paix (a small town on the north coast of the northern
peninsula), Jeremie (a medium-sized town on the north coast of the southern
peninsula) and Port-au-Prince (the "hub" of the existing coastal shipping
freight system, where over one-third of all freight tonnage is handled).
Investments of US$3.5 million in new facilities at these three pilot ports
were financed under Credit 807-HA (Map IBRD 15247).
2.12       Concurrently with the initiation of terminal developments at the
three pilot ports, a Coastal Shipping Development Study (CSDS) was undertaken,
with UNlDP and IDA financing, to assist the Government in defining a program
for development of Haiti's coastal shipping system in the next decade. The
objectives of Phase I of the CSDS, for which the Bank acted as UNDP's Executing
Agency, were to provide:
(a) an analysis of alternatives for development of the
coastal shipping system that would complement existing
and prospective land transport services in Haiti;
(b) definitions of the vessel and fleet characteristics best
suited for expansion of coastal shipping operations, under
conditions prevailing in Haiti, and identification of
technical and financial assistance needed for fleet
development;
(c) identification of the highest priority port improvements
for future operation of the proposed coastal shipping
fleet, together with related road construction or
upgrading required to improve land access for port
traffic; and
(d) recommendations for a program of Government actions to
support the most effective and economic development of
coastal shipping for Haiti.
2.13       During 1979, Phase I of the CSDS reviewed all existing coastal
ports and fleet operations, prepared traffic projections, and developed and
evaluated alternative systems solutions. This operation resulted in recom-
mendations to support the development of a regularly scheduled service by
modernized motor vessels among 11 coastal ports (the three pilot ports,
Cap Haitien, and seven others) and to supplement the motorized service
by improved feeder services of conventional sailboats to and from smaller
communities. While the motorized fleet would primarily handle traffic of
general high-value cargo, agricultural produce and passengers, sailboats
would continue to serve movements in salt and charcoal, which constitute
a large but low-value portion of the traffic. For the period 1981-1990,
the development program as recommended (Map IBRD 15247) would require a



- 11 -
coastal fleet, port construction and related support services estimated
to cover over US$20 million; however, the economic justification of an
investment of such magnitude would depend upon implementation by the Govern-
ment and private sector of a number of coordinated actions, and it is there-
fore proposed to implement the program in stages consisting of investments
that would be individually justified.
2.14      Phase II of the CSDS, initiated in late 1979 and completed in
September 1980 with financing under Credit 807-HA, consists of preliminary
engineering designs, economic analyses and financial forecasts for port
terminal developments at the following ports: Gonaives, Anse a Galets,
Baraderes, Corail, Anse d'Hainault, Port-a-Piment, and Les Cayes. This phase
of the CSDS provided the basis for appraisal of the coastal shipping ports
component of the proposed project.
2.15      Success of the proposed coastal shipping development program will
depend in large measure upon decisions to be taken by the Government concerning
support for development of the maritime sector in general. Specific recommenda-
tions on this subject were made on the basis of Phase I of the CSDS, but their
implementation was considered premature since there had been insufficient time
for discussion among the various agencies concerned. Phase II of the CSDS
was therefore designated as a period during which the Phase I recommendations
would be considered in detail, with the objective of reaching a consensus on
key issues relevant to coastal shipping. Proposed Government actions are
summarized in paragraph 2.27.
E.   Port Administration
2.16      The 1962 Customs Code made administration and management of all
ports in Haiti the responsibility of the Customs Service in the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Affairs. In 1973, jurisdiction over the ports of
Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien was transferred to a new public agency, the
Port-au-Prince Port Administration (APP), and, by Presidential Decree of 1978,
APP was replaced by a national port authority (APN), with jurisdiction extended
to the ports of Port-de-Paix and Jeremie. While it is foreseen, under existing
law, that responsibility for other ports will eventually be transferred to
APN, the Customs Service to date is in charge of vessel clearance, collection
of duties and provision of facilities in all ports other than Port-au-Prince,
Cap Haitien, Jeremie and Port-de-Paix. In practice, however, the Customs
Service exercises jurisdiction only over ports designated as "open to
foreign trade" (para 2.01), delegating responsibility for "local ports" to
the Internal Revenue Service. The Internal Revenue Service also collects
a franchise tax on all vessels under the Haitian flag.
2.17      APN is a public service agency, defined as a juridical entity, with
administrative and fiscal autonomy, and is exempt from income tax. Although
APN is legally autonomous, it does report to the Government through the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. APN is governed by a Board of
Directors, which consists of the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs, the
Minister of Commerce and Industry, the Minister of TPTC, the Governor of the
BRH and the Director General of APN. Day-to-day management and operation of



- 12 -
APN is under the Director General, who is assisted by the Directors of: (a)
Port Operations; (b) Administrative Services; (c) Port Security; (d) Technical
Services; and (e) Coastal Ports. Chart 1 shows the present organization of
APN and departmental responsibilities in summary form. Specific responsibil-
ities and staffing of these departments are as follows:
(a) Port Operations, the largest department, employs
approximately 300 people and has responsibility for
passenger and cargo operations in the port and for related
marine activities. At present, tug services and dredging
are provided under contract by a private contractor.
Another contractor, POSECO (Port Service Company),
handles the operation of the container crane and is
responsible for maintenance of all port equipment.
(b) Administrative Services is responsible for administrative
matters and for APN's financial management, including
account, budgeting and statistical work. About 100
persons are employed in this department.
(c) Port Security is responsible for overall safety in the
port area. This department, which includes a fire brigade,
employs approximately 90 persons.
(d) Technical Services is responsible for planning, construction
and maintenance of port facilities. It employs some 40
persons who, with the assistance of consultants, prepare
and execute port-related investment projects and also
repair and maintain channels and structures.
(e) Coastal Shipping was created at the time of APN's establishment
(Article 3 of the Presidential Decree of April 7, 1978). At
present, APN is vested with the legal authority to manage the
coastal shipping ports of Port-au-Prince, Cap Haitien, Jeremie
and Port-de-Paix; its jurisdiction, as mentioned in paragraph 2.16,
will gradually be extended to other coastal shipping ports.
Twenty-one persons are currently employed in this department.
2.18      As mentioned above (para 2.16), APN is responsible for administra-
tion and operation of the domestic and international shipping facilities at
Cap Haitien. Day-to-day management of Cap Haitien is entrusted to the Port
Director, who supervises a permanent staff of approximately 15 persons plus
casual labor. Expansion of APN's staff and organization at Cap Haitien to a
level that would be adequate for effective administration and operation of the
proposed project was agreed during negotiations.
2.19      Except for the addition of the Coastal Shipping Department, APN's
structure is identical to that of its predecessor. However, APN's salary
scales are lower than those of private enterprises and thus are not sufficient
to attract qualified technical and professional personnel.  Without substantial



- 13 -
salary adjustments and fringe benefits, even the retention of trained staff
will become difficult. Agreement was reached during negotiations on per-
sonnel policies that would ensure adequate staff capabilities at APN.
F.   Port Financial Management
2.20      APN is empowered to collect charges for its services, based on
rates which it develops, and to utilize accumulated funds for capital expendi-
ture, working capital, loan redemptions, etc.; the Minister of Finance has
ultimate financial control over APN by approving operating budgets, tariffs,
borrowings, and the sale and purchase of assets. While APN has not been
provided with share capital, the Government may lend interest-bearing funds
to APN or make equity contributions.
2.21      APN's financial position is dominated by current operations at
the international terminal in Port-au-Prince, where tariffs comparable to
those of ports in other countries provide revenues in excess of expenses.
Tariffs in Cap Haitien are considerably lower, and port revenues do not
cover current operating costs. Traditionally, port facilities for coastal
shipping have been provided by the Government free of charge, except at
Cite Simon (Port-au-Prince), which has a minimal dockage charge, but its
revenues do not cover the costs. Apart from direct operating revenues, APN
receives levies from operators of private terminals and a budgetary alloca-
tion for port improvements in Cap Haitien.
2.22      Of some 100 employees working in the Administrative Services
Department of APN, only about 25 have any formal accounting, legal or statis-
tical training. APN's salary scales, lower than those of the private enter-
prises, do not attract qualified personnel (para 2.19).
2.23      Different accounting systems are used in Port-au-Prince and in Cap
Haitien. Port-au-Prince has a commercial type of system, adequate for the
overall control of the port's finances. Cost accounting was developed for
this port in the mid-1970s (in accordance with the loan agreement between APP
and IDB), but the system as implemented is incomplete, and, although improved
as a result of the IDA credit conditions, it still does not provide the
information required for effective management control. Monthly financial
reports, without cost-center related information and budget comparisons, give
only limited assistance to port management to analyze and direct the opera-
tion. Cap Haitien's accounting system is cash-based, depreciation and accruals
are not accounted for and only part of the assets employed are in APN's books.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that assets employed in Cap
Haitien would be verified, valued and brought into the accounts of APN. In
accordance with the IDA Credit Agreement (807-HA), APN has to revalue its
assets every three years; this obligation was restated during negotia-
tions and the first revaluation should be in 1981. Accounting for the
Cap Haitien assets, part of this exercise, would be a condition for disburse-
ment under the proposed credit. Management advisory consultants financed
under Credit 807-HA developed an accounting system for the coastal shipping
pilot ports which is well designed and which is expected to provide more
meaningful information for management control than that of Port-au-Prince;



- 14 -
the system would be extended to other coastal shipping ports as they become
operational under APN's jurisdiction. For effective management and financial
control, uniform accounting procedures and budgeting systems are necessary for
APN's entire operation; it was agreed during negotiations that APN would
implement the uniform system by end-1982. Accounting in Port-au-Prince should
be upgraded to the standard proposed for the coastal ports system and cost
accounting should be further developed; accrual-based accounting is to be
designed for Cap Haitien. It should be of equal standard and amenable to
integration with APN's other systems. Under the proposed project, appropriate
consultancy assistance (about 14 man-months) is provided for these tasks
(Annex 1).
2.24      Annual operating budgets are prepared by APN and submitted to
the Minister of Finance for approval. In the past, the budgets were not
sufficiently detailed, and data were not provided in form suitable for
analysis; the budget could not be used as a planning document. For 1980,
APN's consultants developed a new budget format as an initial step toward
more intensive management control. To further improve APN's financial
planning, management and control, agreement was reached during negotia-
tions that the 1982 and 1983 annual operating budgets would be based on
quarterly, and thereafter on monthly, projections. It was also agreed that,
through 1986, APN would present its budgets for IDA comment two months prior
to the beginning of the budget year.
2.25      Apart from a rate of return requirement, APN has no long-term
financial objectives or plans. Tariff adjustments are based on short-term
cost considerations and on the need to maintain a 6% rate of return on the
net assets employed (a requirement under the IDB Loan and under IDA Credit
807-HA). Capital investment and various business proposals (borrowing,
leasing areas, establishing a free trade zone) are not subject to comprehen-
sive economic and financial analysis to evaluate their impact on APN's finances.
It was agreed during negotiations that, for better utilization of financial
resources, from 1981, investment proposals over US$350,000 would be subject to
economic and financial evaluation and that the analysis would be forwarded,
through 1986, for IDA comment prior to implementation. It was further agreed
that each year, from 1981, APN would prepare a five-year capital investment
budget and forward it, through 1986, to IDA together with the operating budgets.
This should improve APN's ability to review performances against budget
targets, to develop long-range financial objectives, and to analyze the impact
of investment proposals.
2.26      APN's financial statements, prepared in a commercial manner, are
usually ready for year-end audits within three months after the end of the
fiscal year (September 30). The accounts are audited by an independent firm
in accordance with the existing IDB and IDA loan and credit agreements. While
past audits were conducted properly, the reports were not as extensive as
would normally be expected from an audit firm having substantial experience
with large enterprises. Audit reports with wider analytical scope should be
prepared, and it was agreed during negotiations that, for this purpose, an
audit firm experienced in auditing accounts of large international ports
would be engaged.  The appointment of the auditor would be subject to TDB and
IDA concurrence, and the next appointment is due in 1981.



- 15 -
G.   Government Support to Maritime Sector
2.27      Government actions to support the maritime sector (paras 2.13-2.15),
as recommended in Phase I of the CSDS, were discussed in Haiti during 1980.
The principal actions on which there appear to be consensus are (a) the
introduction of stricter vessel inspection and licensing procedures so that
vessel owners can obtain insurance and financing and (b) the establish-
ment of a national maritime agency to promote and regulate the domestic and
international fleet of Haiti and to coordinate all relevant Government policies
and actions (Annex 2). It has been proposed that this new maritime agency be
within or under the Ministry of TPTC. Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions on appropriate steps toward implementation of these institutional
developments, for which technical assistance is to be financed under the
proposed project (paras 3.21 and 3.22), and on the functions and responsi-
bilities of the proposed national maritime agency.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
3.01      The purpose of the proposed project is to: (a) rehabilitate and
expand the second international shipping port of Haiti at Cap Haitien; and
(b) support the development of a modern coastal shipping system for domestic
transport in Haiti by installing new port terminals in selected locations and
by assisting in related institutional developments.
3.02      The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) at Cap Haitien, engineering and construction for two vessel
berths to serve international tourist and freight traffic,
a coastal shipping wharf, and auxiliary terminal facilities;
(b) at the coastal shipping ports (Baraderes, Corail, Anse
d'Hainault, Port-a-Piment, Anse a Galets, Gonaives and Les
Cayes), construction, rehabilitation and engineering super-
vision for coastal shipping wharves;
(c)  at the port of Jeremie, a supplementary construction for shore
protection at the coastal shipping terminal financed under
Credit 807-HA;
(d) at Port-au-Prince, preparation of a general plan for port
development, feasibility studies and design for the next
phase of development in terminal facilities for international
trade; and
(e) institutional development and studies in the maritime
sector, for which technical assistance will be needed.



- 16 -
3.03      The scope of the proposed project is considered appropriate for the
current phase of transport development in Haiti, and the selected project
components are of high priority in the country's investment program. The
proposed coastal shipping ports would carry forward the program initiated
with the pilot ports financed under Credit 807-HA and would be supplemented
by port feeder roads financed by other sources.
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
3.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$23.7 million,
of which about US$17.0 million, representing the foreign exchange component,
would be financed by the proposed credit (US$11.0 million) and a grant under
consideration by the Kredit Anstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) (US$6.0 million);
the balance would be financed by APN, which has confirmed that adequate funds
would be allocated for this purpose.
3.05      A summary of the proposed project cost is given on the following
page, and a detailed breakdown of these costs is given in Table 3.1. Proposed
co-financing with KfW would be confined to the Cap Haitien component of the
project. The project financing plan would be as follows:
Estimated Cost (US$ Millions)
IDA    KfW    APN    Total
(a)  Cap Haitien Port                       6.3    6.0    5.0    17.3
(b)  Coastal Shipping Ports                 2.5     -      1.1     3.6
(c) Supplementary Construction
at Jeremie                          0.3     -     0.1      0.4
(d) Port-au-Prince Planning and
Feasibility Studies                 1.3     -     0.3      1.6
(e) Technical Assistance to Maritime
Sector and APN Sector              0.6      -     0.2      0.8
Total                           11.0    6.0    6.7    23.7
3.06      Cost estimates for the Cap Haitien port construction are based on
preliminary engineering studies prepared by BCEOM; detailed engineering for
this project component is in progress and should be substantially completed
by March 1981. Cost estimates for the seven coastal ports are based on
preliminary engineering studies prepared by J.C. Buckley, Inc.; detailed
engineering for these project components is to be done under the existing
contract with this firm and should be completed by March 1981. Cost
estimates for the supplementary construction at Jeremie are based on designs
by APN's consultants for the pilot ports (INGEROUTE-SOHICCO), and on a
contract already awarded. 1/ Cost estimates for consulting service are based
1/   This contract was awarded in August 1980 to the Dominican Republic
contracting firm "COSIMAR," which was selected for construction of the
three pilot ports (financed under Credit 807-HA) after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines and is now working
in Jeremie.



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
Estimates in Gourdes         Estimates in US$           Foreign   Proposed IDA
(Millions)                   (Millions)            Exchange      Financing
Local    Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total          %         %   US$'000's
Port Construction /
Cap Haitien                                     23.30       54.45    77.75       4.66    10.89    15.55         70        32 2/   4.96
Coastal Shipping Ports                           4.90       11.40    1h. in      0.98      2.28      3.26       70        70      2.28
Supplementary Works at Jeremie                   0.60        1.40      v nn      0.12      0.28      0.40       70        70      0.28
Subtotal  - Construction                    28.80       67.25    96.05      5.76    13.45    19.21         70         -       7.52
EngLineering Services for Project
Construction                                     2.20        8.00   .J1020       0.44      1.60      2.04      80        80
Technical Assistance to APN and,
Government
Planning and Design for Port-
au-Prince                                      1.60        6.40      8.00      0.32      1.28     1.60        80       80       1.28
ASsistance in Coastal Shipping                   0.40        1.60      2.00      0.08      0.32      0.40       80        80       0.32
Development
Advisory Service to APN                          0.40        1.60      2.00      0.08      0.32      0.40       80        80       0.32
Subtotal - Technical Assistance              2.40       9.60    12.00        0.48     1.92      2.40       80        80       1.92
T 0 T A L                         33.40       84.85   118.25       6.68    16.97    23.65         -         46     11.04
1/ Including Physical and Price Contingencies.
2/ Co-financing by KfW would be about 38% of total construction cost at Cap Haitien, so that full foreign exchange cost
is financed.
December 1980



- 18 -
on current man-month rates for similar services (about US$10,000 per man-month
of foreign experts' time, including salary, costs, fees, international travel
and subsistence). All costs are calculated free of taxes and duties since
Haiti has exempted international contractors and consultants from such duties.
3.07      The foreign exchange component for the civil works is estimated at
70% for Cap Haitien and the coastal shipping ports. The foreign exchange
component for engineering services and technical assistance is estimated at
80%. A contingency allowance of 10% to 15% was used for all civil works at
Cap Haitien and 15% for civil works at the coastal shipping ports. Basic
costs of construction and equipment have been given in mid-1981 prices, and
contingencies for price escalation were based on annual increases of 8% for
the implementation period of 1981 through 1983.
C.   Cap Haitien Terminal Facilities
3.08      The proposed construction of a new port terminal at Cap Haitien
would comprise both the extension and the replacement of existing berthing
facilities. Since this work has to be conducted under traffic (e.g., without
impairing tourist operations at the existing terminal), a phased construction
program is proposed.
3.09      The first phase of construction would consist of a new berth for
tourist vessels, outshore of the existing wharf, in a location where present
water depths are between 10 m and 11 m; orientation of this berth would be at
an angle to the existing wharf in order to facilitate approach and departure
maneuvers (Map IBRD 15246) and to minimize dredging. The berth would be
dredged to a depth of 11.5 m and would consist of 115 m of wharf and a breasting
dolphin to provide a total berth length of 200 m; the wharf would be adjacent
to a new land-fill area connected to the shore by a new access road that
bypasses the existing port terminal. When this facility becomes operational,
a tourist vessel can be berthed there without affecting the existing wharf,
and construction of the next phase can begin.
3.10      The second phase of construction would consist of about 250 m of
multi-purpose wharf, 85 m of which would be designed for a depth of 11.5 m and
165 m for a depth of 10.0 m; the latter would be constructed in front of the
existing berth for international traffic and would replace the deteriorated
sheetpile bulkhead. This would provide berthing space for a second large
tourist vessel or for two moderate-sized cargo vessels. An existing transit
shed parallel to the present wharf, currently used for export cargo, would
continue to be used for foreign trade, but provision has been made in the plan
to replace it, at a later stage, with a larger, more modern shed, if this
should be found justifiable. The inshore end of this multi-purpose wharf
would be equipped with an end-ramp for Ro-Ro vessels which are likely to be
used in container traffic between Cap Haitien and such ports as Miami and San
Juan, Puerto Rico; adequate provisions for parking of containers would be made
on existing and filled-land areas near the ramp.



- 19 -
3.11      The project at Cap Haitien would also include reconstruction of
the coastal shipping dock by installing a new wharf in front of the existing
sheet-pile bulkhead; this wharf would be about 100 m in length and would be
designed for water depths of 4 m. Filling and paved areas adjacent to this
wharf would provide adequate areas for cargo operations related to coastal
shipping; an existing shed near this wharf, currently used for import cargo,
would be made available for domestic trade, and all international traffic
(tourist and cargo) which currently passes over the coastal shipping wharf
apron would be re-routed through a new port entrance to be located outside
the coastal shipping terminal area. Furthermore, provision would be made
in the harbor basin adjacent to the coastal shipping dock for a marina area,
to serve small private craft which have become an increasingly important part
of Cap Haitien's tourist trade; these craft, which normally stay in port
three to five days, would be provided with simple moorings adjacent to a land
area to be created with dredged material from the harbor basin. Minimal
facilities for road access, parking and utilities would be provided in this
area.
3.12      The proposed development at Cap Haitien would provide a considerable
degree of flexibility for future operations at this port. The principal port
activity at present, the tourist ships, 1/ could continue to operate through-
out the construction period at its current volume, but could more than double
when two tourist berths become available (para 4.03). At the same time,
the second berth would provide general cargo and Ro-Ro traffic handling
capacity which would be unimpaired while only one tourist ship is in port;
this consideration is of particular importance in view of prospective indus-
trial and agricultural developments in the region (paras 2.04 and 4.07).
The proposed facilities for international traffic (tourism, general cargo
and Ro-Ro) are expected to provide Cap Haitien with sufficient capacity at
least through 1990. Concurrently, coastal shipping traffic is expected to
become increasingly important for development of the region, and provisions
are being made to improve the facilities for this traffic also. Effective
operation of the proposed terminal complex, however, would require strengthen-
ing of APN's organization and staffing at Cap Haitien (para 2.18) and clarifi-
cation of jurisdictional issues relating to ownership of facilities and
land-use control (para 2.08).
D. Coastal Shipping Ports
3.13      The selection of the ports included in this project for expansion of
coastal shipping has been based on analyses of alternative systems for these
operations (paras 2.11-2.13). These analyses have been supplemented by pre-
investment studies for individual ports to define their exact configuration,
scope of investment and economic/financial aspects (para 2.14). Basic design
concepts for the proposed coastal shipping terminals are identical to those
1/   Cap Haitien now has a minimum of two tourist ships per week, involving about
800 disembarking passengers each; the operation is associated with a large
market activity near the pier (where locally manufactured goods are sold)
and with a major bus-taxi service which transports visitors to the Citadelle
and other nearby points of interest. Tourist ships normally stay in port
one day.



- 20 
applied in the pilot ports financed under Credit 807-HA. The facilities would
provide berthing space for motorized coastal vessels, land access by road, and
a minimal paved area for the transfer of cargo and passengers between vessels
and vehicles. No cargo-handling equipment is foreseen, and transfer operations
are expected to continue, as at present, by manual methods and (in some cases)
the use of ships' gear.
3.14      In the ports of Anse a Galets, Baraderes, Corail, Anse d'Hainault
and Port-a-Pimant, the construction of entirely new terminal facilities is
foreseen. Based on field investigations and soils analyses in the vicinity
of each proposed facility, conducted during Phase II of the CSDS (para 2.14),
alternative sites and terminal layouts were investigated, and APN defined
development plans for each of the five new facilities. Functionally, these
facilities would provide berthing space for two vessels of up to 200 DWT
capacity, either at two sides of a finger pier about 50 m in length (at
Port-a-Piment, Anse d'Hainault and Corail) or along a single marginal wharf
about 90 m in length (at Baraderes and Anse a Galets); structurally, these
facilities would all be of similar design, using modular components for
precast concrete deck sections supported on prestressed concrete piles.
The proposed terminal designs provide for dredging of channels to 4 m depth
at all ports, but the initial construction would comprise dredging to only
3 m depth since this depth is considered sufficient for the initial operations
(all but one of the motorized vessels currently in the coastal trade of Haiti
can navigate fully loaded in 3 m depth).
3.15      In the ports of Gonaives and Les Cayes, proposed improvements will
be limited to dredging, navigational aids, and minor improvements to shore
facilities (repairs to existing dock structures). Existing sheds and upland
areas are expected to be adequate for initial operations at these terminals.
3.16      The estimated costs of the proposed terminals at each site, including
physical and price contingencies, are as follows (in US$ thousands):
Gonaives                       205
Anse a Calets                  495
Baraderes                      450
Corail                         505
Anse d'Hainault                852
Port-a-Piment                  605
Les Cayes                      148
Total                 3,260
A breakdown, showing costs of major project components, is given in Table 3.1
(page 3 of 4).  At two of the proposed ports, operation of coastal shipping
terminals would depend on road improvement; this involves: (a) construction of
a connecting road between the town of Baraderes and the proposed terminal site
(about 3 km away); and (b) upgrading of existing roads north and south of
Anse d'Hainault (to Dame Marie and Les Irois). Therefore, agreement was
reached during negotiations that these road improvements would be undertaken
by the Government at the appropriate time, and that construction of the road at
Baraderes would be a condition of disbursement for the construction at this port.



- 21 -
E. Port of Jeremie
3.17      Supplementary construction at Jeremie is required to provide security
for the new terminal area being constructed adjacent to the coastal shipping
wharf, under Credit 807-HA. This area, which extends into the harbor basin
and receives some natural protection from rock formations in the bay, is
exposed to wave action under certain weather conditions. The original design,
on which the current construction contract is based, provides for slope
protection around the terminal area with stones of 100-600 kg, based on a
maximum significant height of incident waves of 1.5 m. Recent observations,
however, indicated that protection against higher waves would be justified,
and the supplementary construction included in the proposed project would
comprise the placement of rocks weighing 600 kg to 2.5 tons over the stone
protection originally contracted. This additional work is expected to provide
adequate protection for incident waves in the 2.5-3.0 meter range and would
add about 12% to the cost of the original contract for the pilot ports.
3.18      This supplementary work has been contracted by APN on a negotiated
basis with the construction firm (COSIMAR, of the Dominican Republic) that
was selected for the coastal shipping ports component of the Fifth Transport
Project (Credit 807-HA), after international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. The contractor is in the
field and would obtain the additional rock from the same quarry being used
for stone protection under the original contract. This contracting procedure
is considered appropriate since it would reduce costs and time of implementa-
tion; time is of particular importance in this instance because the heavy wave
action, against which protection of the fill is required, could commence in
December; retroactive financing in the amount of US$280,000 is recommended for
this project component (para 3.25).
F.   Port-au-Prince Development Program
3.19      Preparation of a general development plan for the land and water
areas under APN's jurisdiction in the harbor of Port-au-Prince is considered
a prerequisite for effective operation and future expansion of the interna-
tional and coastal shipping terminals in this port and for required auxiliary
port installations (a Free Trade Zone etc.), all of which may play an impor-
tant role in the future development of the country (para 2.06). The planning
study currently being completed is based on terms of reference which the
Association has reviewed and found satisfactory, and is being executed by
consultants whose qualifications are considered adequate. This study has
already been of assistance, in connection with the appraisal of the proposed
project, by providing an analytical basis for evaluating the cargo-handling
equipment needs at the international terminal of Port-au-Prince (para 2.07).
3.20      Following the preparation of a general port developmant plan, there
will be a need for preliminary engineering and economic studies of specific
components of the port development program recommended for the next stage
of construction and preparation of detailed engineering designs for high
priority projects. Preliminary drafts of the port development plan indicate
that the investments needed in Port-au-Prince for cargo terminals and other
facilities to be constructed in 1983-1985 would be on the order of US$30
million (of which about half would be in local currency).



- 22 -
G.   Institutional Development and Studies
3.21      Institutional development within APN will require the assistance
of outside expertise in the areas of management and finance (paras 2.25,
5.05 and 5.07). Also, further assistance will be required for the establish-
ment of Governmental services in support of the maritime sector (para 2.27)
and for studies of future coastal shipping port development.
3.22      A number of specific tasks have been proposed for this technical
assistance. An outline of the proposed scope of the assistance is given in
Annex 1 and a breakdown of the estimated cost is given in Table 3.1 (page 4).
H.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursements
3.23      Implementation of the proposed project would be the responsibility
of APN, which would retain consultants satisfactory to the Association for
this purpose and would expand its own staff capabilities, as discussed in
paragraphs 2.18 to 2.20.
3.24      The proposed project is expected to be completed within a period
of three years. Execution of the project would be in accordance with the
Implementation Schedule given in Chart 2.
3.25      All works to be financed under the proposed project would be awarded
to prequalified international contractors, in accordance with ICB procedures
specified in the Bank's guidelines, except for the supplementary construction
item at Jeremie (paras 3.17-3.18). Professional services for engineering,
planning and management advisory services would be retained in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association. Retroactive financing is foreseen
for three items contracted by APN in 1980 (Table 3.1, page 1), covering sup-
plementary construction in Jeremie (US$280,000), final engineering for Cap
Haitien (US$319,000) and the port development plan at Port-au-Prince
(US$520,000).
3.26      Disbursements of the credit would be made against:
(a) 32% of total expenditures for Port Construction at Cap Haitien;
(b) 70% of total expenditures for Construction of coastal shipping
ports and supplementary works at Jerremie; and
(c) 80% of total expenditures for the Engineering Services for Project
Construction and for Technical Assistance for (i) Planning and
Design for Port-au-Prince; (ii) Assistance in Coastal Shipping
Development; and (iii) Advisory Service to APN.
All disbursements would be fully documented. IDA funds for the proposed
project are expected to be disbursed in accordance with the estimates given
in Table 3.2. It was agreed during negotiations that, for the Cap Haitien
port component of the project, in which co-financing with KfW is being consid-
ered, disbursement would be conditional upon effectiveness of the KfW grant.



- 23 -
I.   Project Monitoring
3.27      For the purpose of monitoring the project during implementation,
progress on the following matters would be reviewed with APN:
(a) cargo movements and berth utilization at coastal shipping ports
(in particular, those completed under Credit 807-HA);
(b) container and general cargo movements and related berth
utilization at Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien;
(c) cruiseship calls and cruise visitors at Port-au-Prince and
Cap Haitien;
(d) APN's financial performance (operating ratios for coastal shipping
ports and the return on net fixed assets for Cap Haitien and for
APN's overall operation); and
(e) staff development in APN's operating and technical departments.
Specific efficiency indicators to be used in monitoring of the above items
will be included in the reporting requirements for the proposed project.
J.   Environmental Impact
3.28      The Cap Haitien component of the project involves slight changes
in the shoreline configuration for the bay and deepening inshore of the
existing minus 11 m bottom contour, in and around the existing terminal area.
However, these are not expected to have a significant impact on sea current
and marine life in the Bay of Cap Haitien. Construction of the seven coastal
shipping ports is even less significant in scale and should have no measurable
effect at all on shore and sea conditions.
3.29      The development of a modernized coastal shipping system, increasingly
utilizing motorized vessels in service among the ports (rather than sailing
vessels), is bound to have a slight effect on the environment, but traffic
volumes are low (on the order of two to four vessel calls per week, for most
ports), so that pollution of water or air by vessel operations should be
insignificant.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      As indicated in Chapter II, transport by sea occupies an important
position in the economic development of Haiti. About 98% of exports and
imports move by sea, the cargo volume by coastal shipping is some 18% of
domestic transport and close to half of foreign visitors arrive as cruiseship
passengers. The project will assist continued development of sea transport in
essentially three areas. The major part of the project will develop the port
of Haiti's second largest town, Cap Haitien. The other two parts will continue
the efforts to modernize transport to smaller isolated communities, particularly



- 24 -
on the southern peninsula, which began under Credit 807-HA, and to prepare for
anticipated growth of Port-au-Prince. Future project preparation and institution-
building for APN cannot be verified by a numeric economic evaluation but are
equally vital for the growth of this subsector. Thus, the evaluated benefits
for this project consist primarily of additional cruiseship passengers and
transport cost savings by more direct transport for the port of Cap Haitien
and reduced cargo handling and more rapid transit for the coastal shipping ports.
B.   Forecast of Future Traffic
4.02       Traffic forecasts for Cap Haitien and the coastal shipping ports
have been difficult to obtain. For both, the constraining effect of existing
facilities or the total absence of terminals cannot be determined with preci-
sion. For the financial projections for Port-au-Prince, traffic forecasts can
be done more accurately since general exports can be better determined.
Various consulting firms have prepared traffic forecasts in recent years. The
National Transport Study in 1976 gave the initial information concerning the
growth of coastal shipping under various assumptions. This work was followed
in 1977 by the feasibility studies for coastal shipping ports under Credit
807-HA, and in 1979-1980 by the CSDS (Phases I and II) and the Cap Haitien
Feasibility Study. The findings of the latter two have been used for this
appraisal.
4.03      The market position of Cap Haitien for cruiseship trade in the
Caribbean can best be visualized by Map IBRD 15245, on which its advantageous
location on the main Florida-Virgin Islands route is shown. This trade is
probably the most rapidly growing segment of weekly cruises since it minimizes
fuel use both for the ships and associated air transport between Florida
and the main market generators. The trade has one peculiarity, i.e., a marked
preference for weekend arrivals and departures in Miami or Fort Lauderdale. In
view of a 36-hour steaming distance from Florida to Cap Haitien, this preference
poses an unavoidable peak problem whereby cruiseship calls (in port for 8-10
hours) will take place only on certain days of the week. Since only one berth
is presently available, capacity is effectively constrained to three to four
calls per week and normally to only two calls. The construction of an addi-
tional berth will, therefore, not only avoid the need to close the port while
reconstruction of the existing berth takes place, but will also allow an
approximate doubling of ship calls when both berths are operating. It will
also permit larger ships to use the port.
4.04      Thus, traffic growth at Cap Haitien rests on the following premises:
the continued 5-6% growth of the Florida-Virgin Island cruiseship trade,
continued growth of ship sizes and removal of the one-berth port constraint
for a place in this trade. In view of experience with traffic growth in
Miami, and the rapid growth of air tourism, the growth rates used may prove to
be conservative. These rates have been adopted for Cap Haitien, however, to
avoid over-investment in the port in case the market does not develop as
rapidly as anticipated. Forecasts adopted are shown in Table 4.1 for ship
calls and passengers. For passengers, a yearly growth of about 7.5% for the
first five years after completion of the project, followed by a yearly 2.5%
growth to allow for increased ship sizes, has been assumed.



- 25 -
4.05      For cargo, both for Cap Haitien and the coastal shipping ports,
an assessment of production and consumption in the ports' tributory areas
has been made, and maritime traffic components have been calculated on the
basis of a modal split analysis, taking into account the transport costs by
alternative modes. The resulting forecasts are shown in Table 4.1 (Cap
Haitien) and Table 4.2 (coastal ports). A more detailed description of
traffic forecasting techniques used is given in Annex 3. The total increase
in cargo to and from the new coastal ports (i.e., other than Gonaives and Les
Cayes) amounts to some 53,500 tons from 1980 to 1995.
C.   Evaluation of Cap Haitien Facilities
4.06      As explained earlier, the existing dock at Cap Haitien is reaching
the end of its useful life as a result of corrosion of sheet piling. Major
reconstruction of this facility would be necessary in the next few years,
merely to retain it in service. Furthermore, the bulkhead construction would
not allow deepening of the berth alongside. The economic effects of a curtail-
ment of cruiseship calls, which would result from a collapse of the dock,
would be very severe. Berthing alongside the dock is not imperative, but, with
few hours in the port, the number of passengers who would go ashore by lighter
would drop to such an extent that ship owners would be reluctant to call on
the port. Thus, the number of sightseers and shoppers would be reduced
drastically, with a serious loss of employment opportunities in the area. The
relatively short port stay is very labor-intensive since not only a large
handicraft market but also a large group of jeep drivers, guides and horsemen
for visits to Milot and the "Citadel" is completely dependent on these visitors.
This trade has far-reaching effects for the whole area. In the numerical eval-
uation, the precise reduction in passengers as a result of a dock collapse is
difficult to ascertain since two reactions are possible: (a) cancellation of
certain cruiseship calls; and (b) reluctance of certain passengers to go
ashore without direct docking. In the absence of such information, the cost
of reconstruction was used as the more practical way of evaluating at least
the cost to APN of continued port operation in Cap Haitien. This underesti-
mates the advantage to the Haitian economy of continued operation of the
port for cruise vessels since the potential loss of only half the existing
traffic over a ten-year period would justify a cost of reconstruction of some
US$4.0 million.
4.07      Another important aspect is the potential cargo growth to and
from the area. This area is important as a secondary center to relieve
the population growth in Port-au-Prince, and various means of commercial
diversification have been sought for the region. A major hotel development
is under way, and an airport extension and an industrial park are being
planned. These projects have been assisted by improved electricity and better
water supply (IDA Credits 895-HA, EEC special action Credit 4-HA and KfW).
The northern road program (IDA Credits 478-HA, 556-HA and 807-HA) will improve
land access to the port   At present, the port is not able to cater to direct
shipments abroad, except by traditional break-bulk cargo-handling methods,
with the result that almost all export production from the area moves by road
to Port-au-Prince to be containerized. Direct Ro-Ro services to Cap Haitien
would make exports more competitive since the 250-km roadhaul could be



- 26 -
avoided. 1/ Similarly, imports for the industrialized zone and other develop-
ment projects would be facilitated as a complement to air transport. Better
cargo services to this port would also encourage coastal shipping, especially
on the north coast of Haiti. The population of Cap Haitien has increased in
a few years from about 40,000 to 60,000. The result of the development of
the area, therefore, is expected to lead to a population of 200,000-250,000
by 2005.
4.08      The numerical estimates of the benefits and costs of the Cap Haitien
project are explained in Annex 3, and the calculations are summarized in
Tables 4.3 and 4.4. One of the main benefits is additional earnings from
foreign cruiseships which provide various foreign exchange receipts to the
Haitian economy. Another of the main benefits is derived from an average net
shore expenditure of US$14 per foreign visitor calculated on current expendi-
ture patterns. Other main components are the savings in road transport
cost, as explained in Annex 3, and an estimate of the cost of a future
collapse of the existing dock, if not replaced. The rate of return is 26%.
D.   Evaluation of Coastal Shipping Ports
4.09      The main emphasis for the smaller coastal shipping ports is to
enable improved access to communities which are not connected by roads to the
rest of the country or which are reached by road for only part of the year,
primarily to the market of Port-au-Prince. In due time, roads to some of
these communities will improve, but experience has shown that the necessary
investment is high and the time required for construction is long. Even
though roads will be built, coastal shipping using the advantage of favorable
wind conditions and the 1,530 km of Haiti shoreline will remain competitive
for certain trades and certain commodities. Various alternatives for a
developed coastal shipping system were worked out in Phase I of the CSDS
referrred to in paragraphs 2.12 and 4.02, which included a transport cost
analysis for the coastal fleet. The major limitation of the smaller ports for
such a system is that operations are now mainly over the beach using lighters
or small docks without direct transfer from ship to shore. There is little or
no protection to ships and cargo. The advantage of the new small port facil-
ities is that access to shore is provided for small (up to 200-ton) motorized
vessels. This improved access will enable more regular services to be pro-
vided at virtually the same en route costs as before but with reduced damages
and losses and fewer handling costs.
4.10      The main benefit from an improved coastal shipping system is the
development of an alternative regular transport system. The developmental
impact will be obtained at a lower cost than would be needed for new road
connections over difficult terrain to some of the ports. Economic development
of the areas served can, therefore, take place much sooner. The full impact
is difficult to quantify, except for transport cost. For the coastal shipping
ports, detailed calculations of different combinations of maritime and land
transport, including losses to cargo and transfer costs for each port, have
been made. The benefit assigned has normally been the difference of the cost
for the selected coastal shipping alternative compared to the transport cost
1/   The location is strategic for Ro-Ro services on the Miami-Haiti-Dominican
Republic-Puerto Rico route, as can be seen on Map IBRD 15245.



- 27 -
of the next best solution for each main commodity group. Feasible ports under
these selection criteria are those with a return exceeding 8% (the opportunity
cost of capital). The quantified rate of return varies from 11% to 16% for
the different ports (Tables 4.5-4.6), and, for all coastal ports, it is 14%.
E.   Overall Project Evaluation
4.11      The main emphasis of the overall project is to assist in the
development of communities other than the capital of Port-au-Prince, and in
regional integration. The quantified benefits result in a rate of return
for Cap Haitien, conservatively estimated over only a 12-year period, of
26%. Sensitivity tests indicate a minimum of 12% under adverse assumptions
(Table 4.7), and the first year return (of 22%) is also more than adequate.
For the coastal ports, the total return is 14%, based only on transport cost
savings over a period which varies from 10 to 25 years, depending on location.
The sensitivity test of treating all traffic growth as generated traffic
gives a rate of return of 12%. The first year return for the small coastal
port system is higher than the opportunity cost of capital. For the project
as a whole, the rate of return is 24%.
F.   Risks
4.12      The design and scope of the project have avoided risks of over
investment to the extent possible, i.e., by staged construction at Cap Haitien
and minimal investment at the smaller coastal shipping ports. Nevertheless,
the most significant risk is that development in shipping may not take place
as, and when, anticipated. In the case of Cap Haitien, a conservative
valuation of benefits as above gives a high return, which, in extreme cases
of 25% and even 50% reduction of benefits, yields a rate of return of 20% and
12% respectively. The likelihood of serious cost overruns is less, but a 15%
cost overrun combined with a 25% reduction in benefits gives a return of 17%.
The cost of reconstruction of the existing dock in 1988-1989 has been included
as a benefit. In fact, this work may be required earlier, but, in the event
that no reconstruction at all would be done in the period 1981-1995, the
return would still be 17%.
4.13      For the coastal ports, the situation does not appear equally
secure. Total benefits, however, have probably been underestimated because
development impact on agricultural production is not quantified; therefore,
the risk of cost overrun is likely to be more important. The return varies
from port to port, but a 15% cost overrun in real terms gives a return of
11% for the system as a whole and 10% assuming 25% lower benefits. To assess
the risk element for each individual port (costing about US$.5 million in
current terms) would not be meaningful. The experience with port construction
in Haiti has been reasonably good, and, for all parts of the project, detailed
engineering cost estimates are under preparation.



- 28 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Recent Financial Performance of APN
5.01      APN has been a profitable organization over the past five years
and has not needed financial assistance from the Government other than tax
exemption. Between 1976 and 1980, the Authority's aggregate net income
was about US$8.3 million, the aggregate net operating revenues exceeded
US$6.2 million and the total cash surplus was over US$10.8 million. While
the increasing port traffic was the major source of APN's profitability, the
important role of the non-operating revenues, i.e., fees received from the
operators of private port facilities, is noted. Between 1976 and 1980, the
annual non-operating revenues averaged US$726,000 and represented about
43% of the average annual net income. Despite the positive financial results,
APN's profitability has deteriorated since 1976. The 1980 net income
(US$1.002 million) was US$401,000 lower than in 1976 and represented 17% of
the total revenues as against 41% in 1976. The profit erosion was due to
increasing financial expenses and to the fact that the operating expenses grew
at a faster rate than the operating revenues.
5.02      Up to 1978, APN's financial expenses were relatively small, but,
since 1979, APN has had to pay substantial interest on funds borrowed from
IDB for terminal expansion at Port-au-Prince. In 1979, the interest bill was
about US$642,000, representing almost 10% of total revenues, and the 1980
interest bill (US$706,000) is expected to be 10.4% of revenues. Since 1976,
the operating expenses have increased by 150%, while the operating revenues
grew by 112%. As a result, APN's operating ratio worsened from 71% in
1976 to 83% in 1980. The cost of operating and maintaining the port's new
container crane (installed in 1978) and other cargo-handling equipment and the
introduction of realistic depreciation charges in 1979 were the main reasons
for the faster cost increases.
5.03      Details of the past financial results are presented in Table 5.1
and are summarized in the following:
APN - Financial Results -/
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980 2/
(US$ thousands)
Operating Revenues                 2,856   4,307   4,105   5,769   6,047
Working Expenses                   1,816   2,195   2,596   3,636   4,087
Depreciation                         215      221     267      769     989
Operating Expenses                 2,031   2,416   2,863   4,405   5,076
Net Operating Revenue                825   1,891   1,242   1,364   0,971
Non-Operating Revenues               580      847     753      714     737
Net Income Before Interest         1,405   2,738   1,995   2,078   1,708
Interest                             002     114      155      642     706
Net Income                         1,403   2,624   1,840   1,436   1,002
1/   APN's Financial Year ends on September 30.
2/   Preliminary figures, prior to year-end audit.



- 29 -
B.   Financial Objectives of APN
5.04      The Government and the management of APN are firmly committed to
maintaining the Authority as a profitable, financially self-sufficient entity.
Through its various operations, APN is to generate sufficient revenues
to meet all liabilities and to administer its facilities according to sound
commercial practices. APN's financial target, to earn an annual return
of at least 6% on total net fixed assets employed, was established in its
loan agreement with IDB, at a time when international operations in Port-au-
Prince represented the bulk of APN's activities. APN is committed to revalue
its fixed assets every three years and to adjust the tariffs as necessary to
maintain the target (para 5.08).
5.05      The character of the Cap Haitien operation would be similar to
that of Port-au-Prince; consequently, similar financial targets would be
appropriate for both ports. However, since Cap Haitien is one of the least
expensive ports in the region with relatively low traffic, it might take sev-
eral years before this port could achieve a 6% rate of return on its assets.
Major traffic increases would take place only after the completion of the new
facilities, but, even with the expected growth, substantial tariff increases
would be necessary to make the operation profitable. For example, in 1985,
one year after completion of the proposed project, cargo-related tariffs would
have to be doubled and cruiseship charges increased about 24 times to achieve
a 6% rate of return. Gradual tariff increases, to achieve phased improvement
in rates of return, are considered more appropriate. Therefore, it was agreed
during negotiations (a) that, in 1981, all Cap Haitien tariffs would be
increased to and subsequently maintained at, the Port-au-Prince level and (b)
that, in 1982, the potential of the cruiseship market would be assessed with
consultaftts' assistance (four man-months) and, subject to a review, further
adjustments would be made to the cruiseship tariffs (and passenger charges) as
necessary, to ensure that, the rate of return on net assets in Cap Haitien
would be at least 3% in 1987 and 6% in 1989 (Annexes 1 and 4).
5.06      For the coastal shipping "pilot ports" financed under Credit 807-HA,
there is no rate of return requirement; according to the IDA Credit Agreement,
steadily improving working and operating ratios have to be achieved each year.
These targets reflect the need to balance two objectives:
(a) to maintain the profitability of APN while its operational
responsibilities are expanded to domestic coastal shipping
ports; and
(b) to establish, for the coastal shipping ports, cost-oriented
tariffs, affordable to the users, while facilitating coastal
traffic and the further development of the port system.
5.07      Based on a rcovery of about 80% of the direct financial benefits
accruing to port users, a tariff structure was designed for the "pilot ports"
in 1978. Recently, the benefit calculations were updated, and tariffs appli-
cable to the coastal shipping port system were adjusted. The proposed tariffs'
impact upon the traffic would be reviewed with consultancy assistance (four
man-months) one year after the "pilot ports" commence operations and the
tariffs, if warranted, would be revised (Annexes 1 and 4). Port revenues



- 30 -
based on the proposed tariffs would not recover all the costs, and the opera-
tion would not yield positive financial results in the foreseeable future.
The international operation in Port-au-Prince, on the other hand, is estimated
to provide profits and cash surpluses during the next ten years and could,
therefore, provide sufficient financial support for the coastal shipping
ports. Since there is a genuine need for these ports and since they would
yield adequate economic returns, financial support from APN's other operation
is warranted. Nevertheless, to control costs and to limit the financial
assistance, working ratios, improving each year, were adopted as financial
targets for the coastal shipping ports. During negotiations, it was agreed
that the working ratios would not exceed 80% in 1982 and 1983; 75% in 1984,
1985 and 1986; and 67% in 1987 and thereafter.
5.08      During the next four years, APN would have to generate substantial
cash surpluses for the project's counterpart funds and for supporting Cap
Haitien and the coastal shipping ports. The Port-au-Prince operation would
generate sufficient funds but, having about US$30 million in additional
assets during the next five years (1981-1985), APN would not be able to
maintain the desired 6% rate of return on all its assets with the current
tariffs. Until 1979, APN's rate of return was higher than 6%. In 1980,
however, because of cost increases and asset acquisitions (cargo-handling
equipment and land), the rate of return was less than 3%. A surcharge would,
therefore, be introduced in February 1981 and subsequently replaced by appro-
priate adjustments to the tariffs, increasing the operating revenues by about
30% and allowing APN to meet its financial targets through 1984; thereafter,
inflation and revaluation of assets would again cause deterioration unless
tariffs were suitably increased (about 20% increase is envisaged in 1984).
Therefore, agreement was reached during negotiations that APN would adjust
port tariffs as necessary and would retain the revenues to achieve its financial
targets; also, the Government agreed that APN could continue to levy charges on
cargo handled in private terminals.
C.   Financial Forecasts
5.09      Based on the projected traffic and the financial objectives discussed
above, separate financial forecasts were prepared for three components of APN's
operations: (a) Cap Haitien; (b) the coastal shipping port system; and (c) the
international operation at Port-au-Prince. The forecasts have been developed
and analyzed in current prices (Tables 5.2-5.8 and Annex 4).
5.10      For Cap Haitien, the forecasts extend to 1989; by then, the port's
financial performance is expected to be similar to that of Port-au-Prince.
The financial results of the coastal shipping ports' operations were developed
over the same period, sufficient to indicate cost and revenue trends beyond 1989.
The financial forecasts for the international operation at Port-au-Prince
were extended only to 1985, which is sufficient to demonstrate that this
operation could provide counterpart funds for the proposed project as well as
cover operational deficiencies of Cap Haitien and the coastal shipping ports.



- 31 -
5.11      A summary of the projected income and expenses of the international
operation in Port-au-Prince together with the fund requirements of Cap Haitien
and the coastal shipping port system follows; details are given in Annex 4 and
in Tables 5.2 to 5.8.
Port-au-Prince Operation -
Projected Financial Results
and APN's Funding Position
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
----------------(US$ thousands)-------------
Operating Revenues                7,630      8,952      9,494    11,990    12,640
Working Expenses                  4,344      4,705      5,098      5,527      5,996
Depreciation                      1,536      1,621      1,668      2,616      2,654
Net Operating Revenue             1,750      2,626      2,728      3,847      3,990
Interest                            714        715        712        699        686
Non-Operating Revenues              788        839        889        940        991
Net Income                        1,824      2,750      2,905      4,088     4,295
Total Internal Cash Generated   3,360        4,371      4,573      6,704      6,949
IDA Credit                          640        800        160          -          -
Investments                       2,075      1,350        550        350        350
Loan Repayments                        -         -        167        343        343
Increase/(Decrease) in Working
Capital other than Cash          (834)      (497)        59        513         91
Port-au-Prince Operation
Surplus                         2,759      4,318      3,957      5,498     6,165
Cap Haitien's Fund
(Requirement)/Surplus            (355)   (3,639)   (1,091)         486        591
Coastal Ports Fund
(Requirement)/Surplus            (231)      (521)      (539)        20        (35)
APN's Consolidated Surplus        2,173         158     2,327      6,004      6,721



- 32 -
D.   Project Financing and Balance Sheet Projections
5.12      The plan to finance APN's various investments, including the
proposed project, is summarized as follows:
Financial Plan for Investments in 1981-1985
(US$ thousand)
Coastal
Port-au       Cap           Shipping
Prince      Haitien      Ports System       Total
Investments
Project                          2,000       17,217          4,433         23,650
Other                            2,675         -               -            2,675
Total Investments           4,675      17,217          4,433          26,325
Sources
Funds generated by APN           3.075        4,908          1,342          9,325
IDA Credit                       1,600        6,309          3,091         11,000
KfW Finance                        -          6,000            -            6,000
Total Sources             4,675        17,217          4,433          26,325
5.13      During the next five years, APN's financial position would remain
sound. Although borrowings for the investment program would be substantial,
the debt/equity ratios would improve from 1982 onward. The liquidity position
is expected to be satisfactory and, by the end of 1985, APN is forecast to
accumulate about US$16.6 million cash surpluses. However, about 90% of these
funds would be required for the additional equipment and berthing needs in
Port-au-Prince (para 2.07). Both the composition and the timing of this
investment program are subject to further assessment; therefore, the fund
requirements were not included in the preceding projections. While APN's
official commitment is subject to the completion of the assessments, it is
firmly expected that, between 1983 and 1985, there would be additional break-
bulk facilities, separation of passenger and cargo facilities, development of
the warehouse area and access and construction of internal circulation roads,
costing some US$28.4 million. The local currency component, which APN has to
finance, would amount to some US$14.8 million. APN's Balance Sheets are shown
in Table 5.8 and are summarized on the following page.



- 33 -
APN Balance Sheets
30 September
1979     1980      1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
-------------------- (US$ Million) ----------------------
Net Fixed Assets 1/   29.5       35.0      42.2      55.3     58.8      60.8      57.7
Current Assets          2.9       2.9       3.6       3.3      5.7      12.3      19.2
Total Assets         32.4      37.9      45.8     58.6      64.5      73.1      76.9
Current Liabilities    1.4        1.2       0.6       0.6      O.6       0.7       0.8
Long-Term Debt         17.3      21.2      24.2      34.6     38.0      37.6      37.2
Equity                 13.7      15.5      21.0      23.4     25.9      34.8      38.9
Total Liabilities
and Equity           32.4      37.9      45.8     58.6      64.5      73.1      76.9
Debt/Equity           55/45    58/42    53/47    60/40    59/31    52/48    49/51
Current Ratio           2.0       2.4       6.3       5.4      8.8      17.1      24.8
1/   Including work in progress.
5.14      Because of the substantial fund requirements, APN's management should
monitor dlosely the utilization of its financial resources. Therefore, in
addition to the introduction of capital investment control measures (para 2.25),
agreement was reached during negotiations that: (a) APN would not, unless the
Association agrees otherwise, contract any further long-term debt in excess
of US$1.25 million; and (b) APN would maintain its accounts receivable in the
ports of Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien at a level of not more than the average
two months of the revenues in the previous 12-month period in these ports
respectively.
5.15      APN's debt coverage ratios are expected to be satisfactory, and,
from 1982, the forecast rates of return would be at least 6% as stipulated
under Credit 807-HA. In Cap Haitien, the rates of return would also improve
consistently from 1985, reaching 3% in 1987 and 6% in 1989 (Table 5.4). APN
would be able to meet its debt obligations. Although debt redemption is
expected to increase by some US$650,000 in 1987, when repayment of the
IDA Credit and KfW's finances would commence, by that time, operation in
Cap Haitien would be sufficiently viable to meet the port's share of the
debt payments.
E. Sensitivity Analysis
5.16      The sensitivity of APN's financial performance to higher working
costs, increases in project costs, and lower-than-expected port traffic has
been tested. Since APN is expected to adjust port charges to maintain its
financial targets, the results are expressed as tariff increases that may
be necessary to offset adverse impacts on the finances.



- 34 -
5.17      Based on traffic and cost forecasts (Tables 5.2 to 5.7), with the
30% surcharge (para 5.08) and an additional 20% tariff adjustment in 1984,
APN would achieve at least a 6% rate of return in the next five years. With
higher costs, tariffs would have to be increased further to maintain the fore-
cast rate of return; for example, if, in 1984, working costs were 15% higher
than forecast, tariffs would have to be increased by about 8% in addition to
the contemplated 1981 (30%) and 1984 (20%) tariff adjustments. Similarly, with
15% lower-than-expected traffic and no increased costs, tariffs would have to
be increased by 14.7%. With 15% lower-than-expected container traffic, all
tariffs would have to be increased by about 11%. A 15% increase in the
project capital cost would require a tariff increase of about 5% in 1984.
F.   Long-Term Financial Obligations of APN and Proposed On-Lending Terms
5.18      APN has received total financing of US$17.5 million from IDB
(US$10 million loan in 1972 and US$7.5 million in 1975) for the construction
and improvement of the Port-au-Prince international port. Interest on the
loans, 1% per year until 1985 and 2% thereafter, is payable semiannually;
amortization payments, with ten years grace, begin in 1983 for the first loan
and in 1986 for the second loan. APN also has to pay yearly guarantee premiums
to the Government by transferring to BRH 3% of the outstanding balance of the
IDB loan amounts; these funds are to be used for counterpart payments on other
development projects. From its own resources, APN contributed US$3.3 million
to the construction of the new terminal at Port-au-Prince and, in 1977,
committed an additional US$5 million to rehabilitate the existing pier.
According to the loan agreements with IDB, APN cannot enter into long-term
loan contracts without the prior authorization of IDB and can use its funds
only for port projects.
5.19      In 1978, a US$3.5 million IDA Credit was extended to the Government
(on standard IDA conditions) and, in turn, on-lent to APN for the construction
of three cabotage ports (pilot ports). The conditions of on-lending included
a 25-year term with a six-year grace period, 1% annual interest rate until
1985 and 2% thereafter.
5.20      For on-lending the proposed Credit, the Government would enter
into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with APN. The possible conditions of this
agreement have been considered carefully, and the on-lending terms mentioned
in paragraph 5.19 preceding are recommended for the following reasons.
(a) The coastal shipping port component of the proposed project, a
logical expansion of the system initiated under Credit 807-HA,
would require financial support from APN's international port
operations. However, the additional coastal shipping ports (as
important for the Haitian economy as the pilot ports financed
previously), are expected to provide the most cost effective
and often the only practicable transport solution for many
isolated communities; because the port users are poor and
the cargo is low in value, affordable port charges would not
recover the full costs of operation, and the international opera-
tion would have to finance about 60% of the depreciation cost
and the entire interest costs of the coastal shipping ports.
Under these circumstances, on-lending terms similar to those
of Credit 807-HA would be warranted.



- 35 -
(b)  In Cap Haitien, where most of the facilities would serve interna-
tional traffic, the situation would be somewhat different. This
port should eventually become financially self-sufficient, although
its future finances would depend heavily upon whether the tourist
traffic materializes as expected and whether the contemplated tariff
adjustments can be implemented without adverse effects upon the
port's competitive position. Nevertheless, since the port develop-
ment is expected to have a major impact on regional economic growth
in the northern part of the country, it is a development project
that would justify concessionary terms.
(c)  Port operations are expected to be profitable at both Port-au-Prince
and Cap Haitien; if future cash surpluses were not otherwise
committed, they would be more than sufficient to cover the interest
costs of the coastal shipping and the Cap Haitien port projects.
However, by about 1985 (when cash surpluses would amount to about
US$16.6 million), the expected exports and imports of Haiti would
require expansion of Port-au-Prince's international terminal, with
new berthing and equipment needs estimated on the order of US$30
million. The local currency cost (about half) of this investment
would be met by APN committing about 90% of its accumulated cash
surpluses. The surpluses of subsequent years would be needed for
servicing APN's debt and for financial support required by the
coastal shipping port system.
5.21      APN would receive from the Government a loan of US$11 million for
25 years, including six years of grace, with interest at 1% for the first
five years and at 2% thereafter. The KfW portion of the project (US$6 mil-
lion) would be a grant to the Government and made available to APN with
on-lending terms identical to those of the IDA Credit; APN would pay interest
and principal repayments to a "trust fund account" to be kept at BRH, and
the accumulated funds on this account would be available, with KfW's agree-
ment, for future port investments.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on the following:
(a)  steps necessary to implement stricter vessel inspection and to
establish a new maritime agency, and their timing (para 2.27);
(b)  road improvements for coastal shipping ports at Baraderes
and Anse d'Hainault (para 3.16);
(c)  authorization of APN to adjust tariffs and retain revenues,
as necessary to achieve the financial targets, including
maintenance of APN's rights to levy charges on cargo handled
in private terminals (para 5.08); and
(d) terms and conditions of a subsidiary loan agreement with
APAT (para 5.20).



- 36 -
6.02      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with APN
on the following:
(a) a time frame for development decisions at the port of
Port-au-Prince (para 2.06);
(b) appropriate staffing for the port of Cap Haitien (para 2.18);
(c) adoption of a program to improve personnel policies (para 2.19);
(d) APN's assets to be revalued every three years (para 2.23);
(e) a uniform accounting/budgeting system to be developed and
implemented by the end of 1982 for APN's entire operation
(para 2.23);
(f) the 1982 and 1983 operating budgets to be prepared on a quarterly,
and thereafter on a monthly, basis and forwarded to IDA for
comment each year through 1986 (para 2.24);
(g) investment proposals over US$350,000 to be subject to economic
and financial evaluation and the analysis to be forwarded,
through 1986, for IDA comment prior to implementation (para 2.25);
(h) each year, from 1981, a five-year investment budget to be
prepared and forwarded, through 1986, to IDA for comment (para 2.25);
(i) from 1981, an audit firm having experience with large international
ports to be engaged (para 2.26);
(j) tariffs in Cap Haitien to be adjusted to the Port-au-Prince
level in 1981, and subsequently to achieve at least 3% rate
of return by 1987 and 6% by 1989 on investments in that port
(para 5.05);
(k) working ratios in the coastal shipping port system to be
improved gradually (para 5.07);
(1) tariffs to be adjusted to maintain at least an overall rate
of return on APN's assets of 6% (para 5.08); and
(m) collection of receivables and APN's debt limitations (para 5.14).



- 37 -
6.03      The following items would be conditions for disbursement:
(a) adoption of a general land-use plan for the port of Port-au-
Prince under the study and design component for Port-au-Prince
terminal development (para 2.06);
(b) accounting for the Cap Haitien assets (para 2.23);
(c) construction of the road at Baraderes (para 3.16); and
(d) effectiveness of the KfW grant (para 3.26).
6.04      Subject to the above, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of US$11 million on standard terms.
February 24, 1981



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transport Sector Investment Program FY 1976/77-1980/81
(US 'S Millions)
FY:            1976/77                         1977/78                         1978/79                         1979/80                          1980/81
Description                      Local    External    Total   Local    External    Total    Local    External    Total    Local    External    Total    Local    External    Total
1.  Highway TranIsport           4.04       19.77      23.81     4.91       22.69      27.6       3.24      11.62      14.86      1.89        3.50       5.39     1.66        4.12       5.78
2. Maritime TransPort             2.72      13.97      16.69     1.08        6.04       7.12     0.38        2.09       2.47      2.57        0.32      2.89     0.06        0.21       0.27
3.  Air Transport                  -         0.02       0.02     0.43        0.06       0.49      1.01       0.03       1.04      1.22        0.07       1.29      1.51         -        1.51
4.  Institutional Change         0.25        0.64       0.89     0.53        1.58       2.11      -           -          -         -           -          -         -           -         -
5.  Specialist training          0.06        0.36       0.42     0.03        0.29       0.32     0.03        0.23       0.26      0.02        0.19       0.21     0.01        0.05       0.06
TOTAL                      7.07       34.76      41.83     6.98       30.66     37.64      4.66       13.97      18.63      5.70        4.08      9.78      3.24        4.38       7.62
Total Investment Program FY 1976/77 - 1980/81:  $115.5 million, of which 241, or $27.65 million, local and 76%, or $87.85 external contribution.
Note: The figures shown do not include operating budgets nor estimated maintenance costs.
1975 prices are used.
Source: Government Five Year Development Plan 1976/77 to 1980/81
July 1980
1w



- 39 -                              TABLE 1.2
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Transport Investment Program FY 1979/80-1983/84
(US$ 000)
Road Surface                          Total km           Total Cost
Paved Roads                             209.8               2,957.2
(National)                          (119.2)            (2,182.2)
(Departmental)                       (90.6)              (775.0)
Gravel Roads                          2,474.3              33,426.1
(National)                           (83.5)            (1,722.3)
(Departmental)                    (1,747.3)           (26,982.3)
(Secondary)                         (643.5)            (4,721.5)
Source: SAT, 1980
February 1981



- 40 -
TABLE 2.1
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recent International Cargo Movements Through Port-au-Prince
(Tons '000)
A.  TRAFFIC, BY TERMINAL
FY:  1973/74        1974/75         1975/76       1976/77        1977/78        1978/79
Terminal
Public                       259.5          336.5           350.5         561.6          507.7          467.4
Private                      240.7          301.3          289.3          429.9          397.0          372.8
Total                      500.2          637.8          639.8         991.5           904.7          840.2
B.  TRAFFIC, BY MODE OF TRANSPORTATION (Public Terminals)
FY:  1973/74        1974/75         1975/76       1976/77        1977/78        1978/79
Mode
Container                    139.1          184.8          208.9          325.8          341.3          311.2
(LoLo)                     (97.6)        (118.5)         (89.3)       (239.5)         (270.2)        (172.2)
(RoRo)                     (41.5)         (66.3)        (119.6)        (86.3)          (71.1)        (138.4)
Bulk                         120.4          151.7           141.7         235.8          166.4          156.2
(Break bulk)              (133.6)        (137.3)        (126.3)       (216.1)         (152.9)        (142.6)
(Liquid bulk)               (8.1)         (14.4)         (15.4)        (19.7)          (13.5)         (13.6;
C.  TRAFFIC, BY COMMODITY GROUP (Public Terminals)
I.  IMPORT (Average of FY 1976/77, 1977/78, 1978/79)
Commodity Group                                   Tons                       Percentage of Total Flow
Edible Oils                                       15.7                                 3.9
Wheat, Flour                                      51.6                                12.8
Other Food Items                                  45.6                                11.3
Other Consumer Goods                              24.2                                 6.0
Motor Vehicles and Parts                          20.1                                 5.0
Machinery and Equipment                           60.5                                1'.0
Other Commercial and Industrial Goods           185.4                                46.0
Total                                   403.1                               100.0
II.  EXPORT (FY 1978/79)
Commodity Group                                  Tons                        Percentage of Total Flow
Coffee                                           28.0                                 23.5
Cocoa                                             5.6                                 4.7
Meat Products                                      2.5                                2.1
Sisal  -                                           3.5                                2.9
Other Agricultural Goods                           9.3                                7.8
Assembly Industry Output                          50.1                               42.0
Small Industry Output                            14.3                                12.0
Other Industrial Goods                             6.0                                5.0
Total                                   119.3                               100.0
Source: Port-au-Prince Development Plan, J.C. Buckley, June 1980, Interim Report; mission estimates
July 1980



- 41 -
TABLE 2.2
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recent Coastal Shipping Ports Traffic
Percentage of
A.  Passengers           Port              Number of Passengers        Total Flow
Montrouis                 100,000                    31.5
Port-au-Prince             53,000                    16.7
Port-de-Paix               53,000                   16.7
St. Marc                   50,000                   15.8
Jeremie                    44,000                   13.9
Other Ports                17,000                    5.4
Total                     317,000                  100.0
Percentage of
B.  Cargo                Port                     Tons                 Total Flow
Port-au-Prince            122,100                   35.9
Anse Rouge                 45,200                    13.3
Jeremie                    32,600                    9.6
Grande Saline              15,600                     4.6
Les Cayes                  15,000                     4.4
Anse a Veau                14,600                    4.3
Gonaives                   14,600                    4.3
M^ole St. Nicolas          11,200                     3.3
Jacmel                      9,900                    2.9
Port-de-Paix                9,900                     2.9
Anse a Galets               9,200                     2.7
Pestel                      9,200                    2.7
Cap Haitien                 7,100                    2.1
Other Ports                23,800                     7.0
Total                     340,000                  100.0
Percentage of
Commodity                  Tons                 Total Flow
Firewood                   50,000                   14.7
Charcoal                   41,500                   12.2
Cement                     18,400                    5.4
Coffee                     17,700                    5.2
Salt                       13,200                     3,9
Sugar                      15,300                    4.5
Othsr                     183,900                   54.1
Tctal                     340,000                  100.0
Source: Coastal Shipping Development Study Phase I, J.C. Buckley, November 1979,
Final Report, Vol. II.
July 1980



- 42 -                          TABLE 3.1
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown
SUMMARY
Local        Foreign       Total
(Us$ 'OOO's0
Port Construction
Cap Haitien                                       3,820         8,910       12,730I-
Coastal Shipping Ports                              762         1,784        2,546 l/
Supplementary Works at Jeremie                      120           280          400 2/
Sub-total .4     702              4,702        10,974       15,676
Contingencies
Physical                                        525         1,227        1,752
Price                                           535         1,247        1,782
Sub-total .1,060 ..6.                           2,474        3,534
Total Construction Cost       ..........      5,762        13,448       19,210
Engineering Services for Project Construction
Final Engineering, Cap Haitien                      106           319          425-
Construction Supervision, Cap Haitien               200           880        1,080
Construction Supervision, Coastal Shipping           81           244          325
Ports
Sub-total ...............           387         1,443        1,830
Contingencies for Construction Supervision           53           157          210
Total Engineering ......    .............       44n        1.6on         2,040
Technical Assistance to APN and Government
Port Development Plan:  Port-au-Prince              130           520          650 2/
Project Preparation and Designs for Next
Phase Development at Port-au-Prince              190           760          950
Assistance in Coastal Shipping Development           80           320          400
Management Advisory Services to APN                  80           320          400
Total Technical Assistance    ..........        480         1,920        2,400
PROJECT TOTAL -------------                     16,968       23,650
1/ In mid-1981 prices; see pages 2 and 3 of this Table for details.
2/ Contracted by APN in 1980 (retroactive financing foreseen).
Source: Engineering Studies by BCEOM and J.C. Buckley, Inc.; mission estimates.
necemner 1.980



- 43 -                                TABLE 3.1
Page 2 of 4
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown - Cap Haitien
Estimated Costs
(US$'000's)
BERTHING STRUCTURES
Coastal Shipping Dock (90m)                                       734
Ro-Ro Ramp (40m)                                                  640
Berths along existing dock to -l.Om (165m)                     1,510
Extension of Berths to -1l.5m (200m)                            5,256
Mooring Dolphin for cruise vessels                                280
Sub-total ....... 8,420
DREDGING  (about 500,000 m3)                                                     1,920
LAND FILL
Trucked Fill Material (140,000 m3)                                770
Stone Protection                                                  320
Sub-total .......                                                 1,090
MISCELLANEOUS STRUCTURES & FACILITIES
Navigational Aids                                                 230
Paving and Grading                                                240
Drainage and Water Supply                                         210
Fences and Gates                                                  100
Electrical Services                                               200
Building and Alterations                                          270
Removal of sunken vessel                                           50
Sub-total .......                                                 1,300
Total Estimated Construction Cost I/                                            12,730
Physical Contingency -                                                           1,370
Sub-total .......                                                14,100
Price Contingency -/                                                             1,450
T       T A L                                                     15550
1/ Mid-1981 price levels.
2/ 10-11% on structures and facilities, 12-15% on dredging and fill.
3/ Based on 8% per year after mid-1981.
Source:  Engineering Studies by BCEOM and mission estimates
November 1980



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown - Coastal Shipping Ports
(US$'000's)
Anse a                                   Anse       Port-a-    Les
Gonaives   Galets    Baraderes    Corail    d'Hainault   Piment    Cayes    Total
New berthing structures
(or repairs to existing docks)*         110*         286          293         293           352          352        22*
Dredging                                  22          -            -            11           33            -         51
Site development  /                       -          100           23           62          208           89          -
Buildings                                 -           -            -            -            33            -          _
Navigational Aids                         30          20           40           33           23            20        40
_                 ~      ~     ~~~~- -4I
Subtotal: -           (147)       (370)         (323)       (362)        (590)         (419)     (102)
162         406          356         399           649          461        113      2,546
Physical Contingencies (15%)    (22)            (55)         (48)        (54)          (89)         (63)      (15)
24          61           53          60            98           69         17        382
Base Price Totals:             (169)       (425)         (371)       (416)        (679)         (482)     (117)   (2,659)
186         467          409         459           747          530        130      2,928
Price Contingency 3/                19          28            41          46           105           75        18         332
TOTAL:                  205         495           450         505           852          605       148    _3260
1/ Mid-1981 prices (except where shown in parentheses, which are mid-1980 prices, as used in economic analysis).
2/ Includes additional slope -protection at Anse D'Hainault and Port-a-Piment, requested by APN to reduce maintenance
costs.
3/ Based on 8% per year cost increases after mid-1981; assuming 9 mos. for Anse a Galet; 15 mos. for Gonaive,                     OQ
Baraderes, Corail; 21 mos. for all other ports (average to mid-completion).                                                       M
Source:  Engineering Studies by J.C. Buckley, Inc., and mission estimates                                                         o
November 1980



TABLE 3.1
Page 4 of 4
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate Breakdown - Engineering and Technical Assistance
Estimated Costs
(US$'000 ')
ENGINEERING SERVICES FOR PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
(a)  Cap Haitien - Final Engineering (Contract with BCEOM)                       425
(b)  Cap Haitien - Supervision of Construction
(24 months at $45,000)                                    1,080
(c) Coastal Shipping Ports - Supervision of Construction
(18 months at $18,000)                                      325
Sub-total .1,830
Contingencies (15Z on (b) and (c) above)                                    210
Total Engineering for Construction .2,040
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO APN AND GOVERNMENT
Port-au-Prince - Port Development Plan
Consulting Services (Contract with J.C. Buckley).... 500
Sub-surface Explorations .......................   150
Sub-total ...........     .....................    650
Port-au-Prince - Project Preparation and Designs for
Next Phase of Development:
(a)  Feasibility Study - 20 m/m P 10 ..............   200
(b)  Surveys and Sub-surface Explorations  .......        250
(c)  Design and Contract Documents  ....       ..........   500
Sub-total ..........     ......................    950
Assistance in Coastal Shipping Development
(a) Vessel Inspection and Licensing,
Advisory Services (15 m/m @ 10) ....       ..........  150
(b) Maritime Agency Administration,
Organization, Training (10 m/m @ 10) ....... 100
(c) Additional Port Development Planning
and Design ..........     ......................  150
Sub-total ...........     ....................    400
Management Advisory Services to APN
(a) Establishment of Port Maintenance Service
Engineering Services (12 m/m) ....      ....... 120
Equipment & Materials    ...............   80
200
(b) Establishmenit ot Uniform Accounting
System, including necessary
Training (14 m/m) ......       .................... 120
(c) Tariff and Market Study for Cruise Ship
Traffic (4 m/m) .......       ....................   40
(d) Tariff Study for Coastal Shipping Ports
(4 T./m)  ..........    ........................   40
200
Sub-total                                      400
Total Technical Assistance ............................ 2 400
Source: APN and mission estimates
December 1980



- 46 -                          TABLE 3.2
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Cumulative
Disbursed in           Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year                     Quarter           at end of Quarter         x
FY 1981
June 30, 1981                      1.1                      1.1             10
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                 1.1                      2.2             20
December 31, 1981                  1.1                      3.3             30
March 31, 1982                     2.2                      5.5             50
June 30, 1982                      2.2                      7.7             70
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                 1.1                      8.8             80
December 31, 1982                  0.5                      9.3             85
March 31, 1983                     0.6                      9.9             90
June 30, 1983                      0.5                     10.4             95
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                 0.6                     11.0            100
Source: Consultants' reports and mission estimate
November 1980



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of Port Traffic at Cap Haitien  : Without the Project (Scenario 1)
Pleasure Boat                                         Goods
Cruiseship                 Local                     Int'l                     Local                Int'l
Shipcalls  Passengers  Shipealls  Passengers  Shipcalls  Passengers             Shipealls  Tons   Shipcalls   Tons
Actual Traffic
(1978)                 138        84,200         -            -            177           531           260       6,100       104     10,100
EStimated Traffic
(1980)                 115        77,000         -            -            220           650                     4,800                 6,500
Traffic Forecast
(1985)                 115        87,000         -            -            355         1,050                     5,600                 8,500
Traffic Forecast
(1990)                 115        99,000         -            -            450         1,350                     6,700                 9,200
Traffic Forecast
(1995)                 115       112,000         -            -            580         1,750                      7,800                8,200
Analysis of Port Traffic at Cap Haitien         With the Project (Scenario 2)
Actual Traffic
(1978)                 138        84,200         -            -            177           531           260       6,100       104      10,100
Estimated Traffic
(1980)                 115        77,000         -             -           220           650                      4,800                6,500
Traffic Forecast
(1985)                 295       225,000         6             20          724         2,180                      5,600               53,200
Traffic Forecast
(1990)                 357       307,000          8            25        1,152         3,525                      6,700               63,900
Traffic Forecast
(1995)                 357       347,200        10             30        1,475         4,420                      7,800               74,100
= Information not Available
Source:  BCEOM Report; Mission Estimates
February 1981



- 48-                              TABLE 4.2
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Analysis of Projected Coastal Shipping Port Traffic (000) Tons
Estimate                     Forecast
1980               1985     1990         1995
Anse a Galets
In                                    6.1                 6.5      7.2          7.7
Out                                   2.0                 2.2      2.5          2.8
Anse d'Hainault
In                                    2.4                 5.5      7.8          9.9
Out                                   5.0                 8.8     12.7         15.4
Corail
In                                    4.4                 5.3      6.4          7.7
Out                                   4.8                 7.9     11.0         12.0
Baraderes
In                                     .2                 2.5      3.2          4.1
Out                                   1.4                 3.9       4.8         5.9
Gonaives
In                                                                    
Out                                   12.3                15.1     19.3        24.3
Les Cayes
In                                     1.0                 1.0      1.2         1.3
Out                                   11.0                20.2     25.8        32.9
Port-a-Piment
In                                     2.2                 5.0      7.3         9.0
Out                                    4.7                 6.4      8.9        12.2
Source: R. R. Nathan
July 1980



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation of Costs and Benefits of Cap Haitien Port Project: Basis for Calculations (1985)
I,                                                        Passenger Traffic
Cruiseships_                            Pleasureboats (Int'l)                       Pleasureboats (lIocal)
Shipcalls           Passengers ('000)         Shipcalls        Passengers ('000)        Shipcalls              Passengers
Ql      (2)      3X)      (D1)    m2    (3)    (1)   (2    (3)   (1         2    (3)     __ (     (2)    (3)    M1)    (2)    (3) ,
295     115      180     225       87    138    720   355   365  2,200 1,100 1,100   6.0           -     6.0      18     -      18
II.      International Cargo Traffic (tons '000)
.Industrial Park                       Other Cargo
(S)    (2)      (3)           ()(2~)               (3)
0.8       -        0.8           52.4      7.9       44.5
III.       Employment Impact
Industrial Park          Cruiseships
260    234    26    1,500   600    900
(1) Situation with Project
(2) Situationtin the Absence of Investments
(3) Basis for calculation of Benefits Accruirtg to the Economy Due to the Project - Col. (1) - Col. (2)



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation of Cost and Benefits of Cap Haitien Port Project          Calculation of Costs and Benefits (1985)
(US$'000)
I.  Costs                                                                             1981        1982      1983        1992
1. Investments                                                -      1980-1995: 1,660        9,840      2,010        500
2.  Maintenance and Operating Costs                           90     1980-1995:    90/p.a.
90
II. Benefits
1. Port Charges
(goods, industrial park) (4$/ton)                         3      4$ x 800 ton x 0.9 net benefit factor
(cruiseship passengers - 3$/pass)                       414      3$ x 138,000 passengers
(vessels)                                                63      (3,000 x 6.5% x 0.9) + (414,000 x 15%) + (20$/yacht
2.  Expenditures on Shore                                               x 371 calls x 0.9)
(cruiseship passengers) (14$/pass.)                   1,932      14$ x 138,000 passengers
(cruiseship crew)(2$/person)                            108      2$ x 180 calls x 300 crew members per ship
(pleasureboat passengers) (20$/person)                   22      20$ x 371 calls x 3 persons per yacht
LU
3.  Road Transport Cost Savings                                                                                              0
(goods other than ind. park)(15.7$/ton)                 699      15.7$ x 44,500 ton
4.  Commissions
(freight industrial park)(5$/ton)                         4      5$ x 800 ton
(shipping agency)(300$/call)(ind. park, cruise)          40      (250$ x 450 calls x 0.8 factor) + (50$ x 450 calls x
5.   Employment Creation                                                0.4 factor)
(industrial park) (640$/person)                          17      640$ x 26 persons
(cruiseships) (2,250$/person)                           230      2,250$ x 3 regular calls x 30 persons
6.   Various Works
(cruiseship calls) (75$1call)                            14      75$ x 180 calls
7.   Reconstruction Cost Savings                              -       -
3,546
0.
Source:   BCEOM Report, May 1980; Mission Estimates                                                                      o
February 1981 



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Costs and Benefits of Cap Haitien Port Project (1980-1995)  (000)S
BENEFITS    .      _-                                                           Various
Port (harge                                                             *oad Tran;p,                                                                 Works
Goods                                      Expenditures on Shore                 Cost Savings          Commisslors        Emptoymet Creation               CruiSe-
Industrial   Cruiseship               Cruiseship   Cruiseship    Pleasureboat   Goods Other           Freight    Shipping                 Regular Cruise-      ship      Reconstruction
Perk        Passengers    Vessels Passengers          Crew         Passengers   Than Id. park  nd. Park    Agency  Ind. Park    ghip Calls                   Calls      Cost Savings
1980        -             -              -         -
1981
1982
1983        -             -              2         -             -                8             -                      -               -
1984        -           369            55       1,722           99               20            622              -           36          -            230                12             -
1985        3           414            63       1,932          108               22            699              4           40        17             230                14             _
198t       4            416            70       2,128          116               26            724              6           43        42             230                14 6
1987       5            501            77       2,338          125               28            750              7           47        75             206                16           2
1988        7           786           117       3,668          195               32            776              9           73       Ill             306                24           2,100      1
1989       8            849           127       3,962          205               38            802             12            77      116             383                 26          2,075    u
1990       9            624            98       2,912          145               42            827             12            55      191             383                 18            -
19q.      10            642           101       2,996          145               44            890             14            55      211             383                 18             -
1992      11            654           103       3,052          145               46            951             15            55      232             383                 18             -
1993      12            669           106        3,122         145               48          1,014             17            56       255            383                 18             -
1904      13            690           110        3,220         145               52          1,075             19            56       280            383                 18             -
14           705           113        3,290         145               54          1,138             20            56       308             383                lt             _
COSTS
1981          1982           1983          1992
Investment Costs                                  1,660         9,840          2,010           500
Maintenance and Operating Costs                      90/p.a.
Source: BCEOM Report, May 1980: Mission Estimates, Table 4.3
July 1980



- 52 -                               TABLE 4.5
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation of Coastal Ports
Savings in Transport Cost 1985
Commodity             Tons           Saving per Ton (US$)          Savings in 1985
ANSE A GALETS                          Sailship/Motorship
Grain and Vegetables    2,200          23.48 - 17.00 = 6.48                 14,256
Miscellaneous             4,600        38.48 - 24.50 = 13.98                64,308
Cement                      300        12.48 - 10.95 = 1.53                    459
79,023
ANSE D'HAINAULT                        Sailship/Motorship
Coffee/cacao              1,100        63.59 - 39.19 = 24.40                26,840
Grain/vegetables          3,200        30.59 - 22.69 = 7.90                 25,280
Miscellaneous             3,600        45.59 - 30.19 = 15.40                55,440
Cement                   1,500         17.29 - 14.34 = 2.95                  4,425
111,985
BARADERES                              Truck/Motorship
Coffee                    1,500        49.62 - 36.20 = 13.42                20,130
Sailship/Motorship
Grain/vegetables          2,400        27.80 - 19.70 = 8.10                 19,440
Miscellaneous             2,000        42.80 - 27.20 = 15.60                31,200
Cement                      500        14.50 - 12.25 - 2.25                  1,125
71,895
CORAIL                                Truck/Motorship
Coffee                      600        48.18 - 38.19 = 9.99                  5,994
Sailship/Motorship
Vegetables                1,200        27.26 - 21.69 = 5.57                  6,684
Miscellaneous             4,300        44.26 - 29.19 = 15.07                64,801
Cement                      500        15.96 - 13.34 = 2.62                  1,310
78,789
GONAIVES                               Truck/Motorship
Vegetables                7,300        23.80 - 20.53 = 3.27                 23,871
LES CAYES                              Truck/Motorship
Sugar/grain             14,100        26.30 - 24.89 = 1.41                 19,881
PORT-A-PIMENT                         Truck/Motorship
Grain/vegetables         6,400        35.30 - 23.80 = 11.50                73,600
Miscellaneous             3,000        37.80 - 31.30 = 6.50                 23,400
Cement                   1,400        19.20 - 15.45 = 3.75                  5,250
102,250
Source: J. C. Buckley, Mission Estimates
November 1980



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Coastal Shipping Ports (000)$
Anse a Galets           Anse d'Hainault                  Corail                      Baraderes                      Gonaives                     Les Cayes                     Port-a-Pimient
Cost       Benefits      Costs      Benefits       Costs         Benefits        Costs        Benefits         Costs        Benefits          Costs        Benefits          Costs         Benefits
2/                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
1983             232                       3952/                     223                           3022/                          92                            64                             262
1984             231                       395                       223                           301-                           92                            63                             262
1985              18          79            21          112           13             79             18             72              5           24                4             20               15            102
1986              18          81            21          120           13            84              18             75              5            25               4             21               15             108
1987              18          82            21          129           13             89             18             79              5            27               4             22               15             115
1988              18          84            21          139           13             94             18            82               5            29               4             23               15             122
1989              18          86            21          150           13            100             18            86               5            30               4             25               15             129
1990              18          88            21          161           13            106             18            90               5            32               4             26               15             137
1991              18          89            21          168           13            108             18            94               5            34               4             27               15             144
1992              18          91            21          175           13            111             18            98               5           36                4             29               15             152
1993              18          92            21          182           13            114             18           102               5            38               4             30               15             160
1994              18          94            21          190           13            117             18           107               5           41                4             32               15             169
1995              18          ';            21          198           13            120             18           112               5           43                4             34
1996              18          97            21          207           13            123             18           117               5           46                4             36
1997              18          98            21          216           13            126             18           122               5           48                4             38
1998              18         100            21          225           13            129             18            128              5            51               4             40
1999              18         102            21          235           13           132              18           133               5            54               4             42
2000              18         103            21          245                                         18            139              5            58               4             44
2001              18          105           21          256                                         18            146              5            61               4             46
2002              18         107            21          266                                         18            152              5            65               4             49
2003               18         108           21          278                                         18            159               5           6E                4            52
2004              18          110           21          290                                         18            166              5            73               4             54
2005              14          112
2006              14         114
2007              14          115
2008              14         117
2009              14         119
1/ Investment cost for the first two years, annual maintenance cost thereafter.
2/ Includes highway inveatment for access roads.
Source:  Table 4.5; Mission Estimates
November 1980



- 54 -                           TABLE 4.7
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Economic Returns and
Sensitivity Test
First
25% Decrease   15% Increase       Year
Best Estimate    in Benefits       in Costs       Return
Cap Haitien Port          26%              20              23            22
Coastal Ports
Anse a Galets           15%              10              13            14
Anse d'Hainault         15%              11              13            11
Baraderes               11%               7               8             9
Corail                  16%              10              14            14
Gonaives                14%              10              12            10
Les Cayes               16%              11              14            12
Port-a-Piment           15%               8              12            17
Source: Tables 4.4 and 4.6
November 1980



- 55 -                      TABLE 5.1
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APN Income Statements
(US$ thousand)
1976         1977         1978         1979         19801/
OPERATING REVENUES            2856         4307         4105         5769         6047
LESS:
OPERATING EXPENSES
DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries, wages and
social costs           1199         1508         1701         1680         2252
Maintenance materials
and supplies            101          140          139          693          634
Fuel and other materials
and supplies             28           42            37          27)         564
Other expenses              16           25           63          548)
Total                    1344         1715         1940         2948         3450
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Salaries, wages and
social costs            373          347          459          496          402
Maintenance materials
and supplies             11             9          10           21           26
Fuel and other materials
and supplies              20          22           28           44            38
Other expenses              68          102          159          127          171
Total                      472          480          656          688          637
WORKING EXPENSES           1816         2195         2596         3636        4087
DEPRECIATION                215          221          267          769          989
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 2031           2416         2863         4405        5076
NET OPERATING REVENUE          825         1891         1242         1364         971
PLUS:
NON-OPERATING REVENUE          580          847          753          714          737
NET REVENUE BEFORE INTEREST 1405           2738         1995         2078         1708
LESS:
INTEREST (INCOME) EXPENSES    (2)           114          155          642          706
NET REVENUE                   1403         2624         1840         1436         4002
RATIOS
Working Ratio                64           51           63           63           68
Operating Ratio              71           56           70           76           84
1/ Preliminary data, prior to audit.
Source: APN Statements, Reports, Mission Estimates
January 1981



- 56 -                                    TABLE 5.2
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Port-au-Prince International Operations
Income Projections
(US$ thousand)
t981       1982        1983        1984        1985
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                              7629.9-     8951.8      9493.9    11990.0    12640.5
OPERATING EXPENSES
__________________
LABOR                                              2412.6      2592.1     2784.6      2990.8      3210.4
MAINTENANCE AND MATERIAL                           1205.9      1325.9      1456.0      1604.7      1770.4
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                             725.1       786.3       857.1      931.6       1014.8
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                       4343.6      4704.4      5097.7      5527.1      5995.6
DEPRECIATION                                        1535.8    1621.3      1668.3     2616.4      2654.4
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                             5879.4      6325.7      6766.0      8143.5      8650.0
NET OPERATING REVENUE                            1750.5     2626.1      2727.9      3846.5      3990.5
NON OPERATING REVENUE                             788.0      839.0       889.0       940.0       991.0
NET REVENUE BEFORE INTEREST                     2538.5      3465.1      3616.9      4786.5      4981.5
INTEREST                                         714.8       716.6       712.0       698.8       685.5
S3==S==-= s=:s=-=s=S= ======S='-  SS=_i=t=== =S==tS==s:=
NET REVENUE                                      1823.7     2748.5      2904.9      4087.7      4296.0
WORKING RATIO                                          56.9        52.6        53.7        46.1        47.4
OPERATING RATIO                                        77.1        70.7        71.3        67.9        68.4
INTEREST COVERAGE                                       5.7         7.1         7.4        10.6        11.1
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE
INCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE                         5.7         7.1         6.0         7.1         7.4
EXCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE                          4.6        5.9         5.0         6.2         6.5
SOURCE; MISSION ESTIMATES
dANUARY 1981



- 57 -                                    TABLE 5.3
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Port-au-Prince International Operations
Sources and Applications of Funds Projections
(US$ thousand)
1981       1982        1983       1984        1985
SOURCES
NET OPERATING REVENUES                     1750.5     2626.1      2727.9      3846.5     3990.5
DEPRECIATION                               1535.8      1621.3     1668.3      2616.4     2654.4
NON OPERATING REVENUE                       788.0       839.0      889.0       940.0      991.0
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATED              4074.3     5086.4      5285.2     7402.9      7635.9
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT                         640.0      800.0       160.0
DECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
OTHER THAN CASH                          834.6      497.2
s=Ztscsrss aSkt=gStl    S*fS         flflmtmflt asaa;SUCsSUflSf
TOTAL SOURCES                              5548.9     6383.6      5445.2      7402.9     7635.9
APPLICATIONS
INVESTMENTS
PROPOSED MASTER PLAN & TA              800.0     1000.0       200.0
EOUIPMENT PURCHASE                     575.0      350.0  -   350.0       350.0       350.0
ACQUISITION LAND IMPROVEMENTS          700.0
TOTAL INVESTMENTS                          2075.0      1350.0      550.0       350.0      350.0
INTEREST                                  714.8      716.6       712.0      698.8       685.5
LOAN REPAYMENTS
IDB LOAN                                                      167.0      333.0       333.0
EXISTING IDA CREDIT                                                        10.0       10.0
TOTAL LOAN REPAYMENT                                               167.0       343.0      343.0
INCREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
OTHER THAN CASH                                                  58.8       513.3       90.8
TOTAL APPLICATIONS PORT-AU-PRINCE          2789.8      2066.6     1487.8      1905.1     1469.3
FUND SURPLUS AVAILABLE FOR
COASTAL PORTS & CAP HAITIEN           2759.1     4317.0      3957.4     5497.8      6166.5
FUND SURPLUS/REOUIREMENT(DEFICIENCY)
CAP-HAITIEN                         -354.7    -3638.6    -1090.7       486.2       590.9
FUND SURPLUS/RE0UIREMENT(DECICIENCY)
COASTAL PORTS                       -231.0     -521.2      -539.2        19.6      -35.3
NET CONSOLIDATED
FUNDS SURPLUS  P.A.                   2173.5       157.3     2327.5     6003.7      6722.1
NET CONSOLIDATED FUNDS
SURPLUS CUMULATIVE                    1456.5     1613.7      3941.2     9944.9    16667.0
SOURCE; MISSION ESTIMATES
JANUARY 1981



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cap Haitien
Income Projections
(US$ thotusqnd&
1980 1/       1981         1982        1983        1984         1985         1986        1987         1988        1989
OPERATING REVENUES
TOTAL CRUISE SHIP                         18.3        27.3       111.9        119.0       509.8       547.0        586.3        885.6       1121.5      1439.4
TOTAL COMMERCIAL                          11.8        25.8        30.0         32.0       460.8       570.0        616.8        781.3       811.9        887.0
CABOTAGE                                   0.3         0.4          1.0         1.2        15.1         21.7         22.4        27.5         28.3        31.0
PLEASURE BOATS                             2.2         2.9         3.6          6.0        21.7         23.3         26.1        35.3         37.6        43.0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                    32.6        56.4        146.5       158.2      1007.4       tl62.0       1251.6      1129.7       1999.3      2400.4
OPERATING EXPENSES
LABOR                                45.0        50.3         53.9        64.8        77.4         90.5         96.0        103.6       113.3        120.5
MAINTENANCE                          14.0        15.1         18.7        25.2       272.1        299.7        330.1        363.3       401.7        441.8
OTHER                                10.0        11.0         37.5        43.9         79.1        87.0         99.2        111.1        126.5       141.5
AOMINISTRATIVE                        5.0         10.8        11.7        12.6         16.3        17.6         20.6         24.0        25.9         30.0
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                     74.0        87.3        121.8       146.5       444.9        494.8        545.9        602.0       667.4        733.7  1
DEPRECIATION                               176.5       176.5        176.5       176.5       521.9        521.9        521.9        599.2       599.2        599.2
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                   250.5       263.8       298.3        323.0       966.8       1016.7       1067.8       1201.2      1266.6       1332.9
NET OPERATING REVENUE(LOSS)               -217.9      -207.4       -151.S      -164.8         40.6       145.3         183.8       528.5       732.7       1067.5
===s= = =s==e=== ===== ===== = == ====== ======= === = ===== == = = == = = = = == === === == = = == C==w2=
NON OPERATING REVENUE                       51.6        51.6         51.6        51.6 I1.6                51.6         551.6                     51.         51.6
NET REVENUE BEFORE INTEREST               -166.3      -155.8      -100.2       -113.2        92.2        196.9        235.4        580.1       784.3       1119.1
INTEREST                                     4.8        99.4        111.9       125.0       127.9        127.9        255.5        249.7       238.6        227.8
NET REVENUE                               -171.1      -255.2      -212.1       -238.2       -35.7         69.0         -20.1       330.4        545.7       891.3
WORKING RATIO                              227.0       154.7         83.1        92.6        44.2         42.6          43.6        34.8         33.4        30.6
OPERATING RATIO                            768.4       467.7        203.6       204.2        96.0         87.5          85.3        69.4         63.4         55.5
INTEREST COVERAGE                            2.1         0.2         0.7          0.5         4.8          5.6           3.0         4.7          5.8          7.5
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE
INCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE              2.1          0.2         0.7         0.5          4.8         5.6           2.7          1.3         1.5          1.9
EXCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE             -8.6         -0.3         0.2          0.1         4.4          5.2          2.5          1.2         1.5          1.8
RETURN ON AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE                                                                                                                          a
INCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE                         -35.0       -35.6       -96.8          1.1          1.2          1.5         3.5          4.6          6.7  r
EXCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE                         -46.6       -54.0      -140.9          0.5          0.9          1.2          3.2         4.3          6.4  tn
1/ ESTIMATED FIGURES
SOURCE: MISSION ESTIMATES 8
SCEOM REPORT
JANUARY 1981



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cap Haitien
Sources and Applications of Funds Projections
(US$ Thousand)
1980 1/       1981        1982        1983        1984         1985        1986         1987        1988         1989
SOURCES
NET OPERATING REVENUE(LOSS)             -217.9      -207.4      -151.8      -164.8        40.6        145.3        183.8       528.5       732.7       1067.5
DEPRECIATION                             176.5       176.5       176.5       176.5       521.9        521.9       521.9        599.2       599.2       599.2
NON OPERATING REVENUE                     6 51.6      51.6        51.6        51.6        51.6         51.6         51.6        51.6        51.6         51.6
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATED             10.2        20.7        76.3        63.3       614.1        718.8       757.3       1179.3      1383.5       1718.3
IDA CREDIT                                           937.0      4178.0      1194.0
KFW FINANCES                                         891.0      3973.0      1136.0
APN CONTRIBUTION TO PROJECT                          276.0      3603.0      1029.0
APN SUBSIDY TO OPERATIONS                             78.7        35.6        61.7                                                                             i-n
TOTAL SOURCES                             10.2      2203.4    11865.9       3484.0       614.1        718.8        757.3      1179.3      1383.5       1718.3
APPLICATIONS
INVESTMENT                                          2104.0    11754.0       3359.0
INTEREST                                   4.8        99.4       111.9       125.0       127.9        127.9       255.5        249.7       238.6        227.8
LOAN REDEMPTION
1ST IDA CREDIT                                                                                               25.3        25.3        25.3         25.3
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
AND KFW FINANCES                                                                                                       647.9       647.9        647.9
INCREASE IN CASH                           5.4                                           486.2        590.9       476.5        256.4       471.7        817.3
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                        10.2      2203.4    11865.9       3484.0       614.1        718.8        757.3      1179.3      1383.5       1718.3
t_
1/ ESTIMATED FIGURES                                                                                                                                            .-n
MISSION ESTIMATES
JANUARY 1981



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coastal Shipping Ports
Income' Proj ections
(PSS tiicusane'
1981       1982        1983       1984        1985         1986       1987        1988        1989
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE IN SYSTEM          228.9       276.5      297.4       365.2       388.9       42.6       526.2       561.6       603.9
PILOT PORTS
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                     186.0       200.2       218.0      242.6       266.5       293.2       319.1       348.9       382 .1
DEPRECIATION                                76.6       160.1       160.1      160.1       160.1       160.1       184.1       184.1       184 .1   0'
0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                   262.6       360.3      378.1       402.7       426.6       453.3       503.2       533.0       566.2
ADDITIONAL CABOTAGE PORTS
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                                   2.0        6.0        10.0        10.8        14.0        17.6        20.4        23.5
DEPRECIATION                                                      108.6      193.9       193.9       193.9       193.9       193.9       193.9
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                 2.0       114.6      203.9       204.7       207.9       211.5       214.3       217.4
NET OPERATING LOSS                         -33.7       -85.9      -195.3     -241.5      -242.4      -238.6      -189.5      -185.7      -179.8
INTEREST                                    44,9        46.4       48.6        47.9        55.9        85.8        83.8        80.8        77.8
NET LOSS                                   -78.6      -132.3      -243.9     -289.4      -298.3      -324.4      -273.3      -266.5      -257.6
WORKING RATIO                               81.3        73.1       75.3        69.2        71.3        72.7        64.1        65.8        67 2    H
OPERATING RATIO                            114.7       131.1       165.7      166.1       162.3       156.4       136.1       133.1       129.8
E'i
SOURCE; MISSION ESTIMATES &
R.R. NATHAN REPORT
JANUARY 1981



HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coastal Shipping Ports
Sources and Applications of Funds Projections
(US$ Thousand)
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985         1986        1987        1988        1989
SOURCES
NET OPERATING LOSS                    -33.7       -85.9      -195.3      -241.5      -242.4       -238.6      -189.5       -185.7      -179.8
DEPRECIATION                           76.6       160.1       268.7       354.0       354.0        354.0        378.0       378.0       378.0
TOTAL                                  42.9        74.2        73.4       112.5       111.6        115.4        t88.5       192.3       198.2
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT                   595.0      1409.0      1087.0
APN CONTRIBUTION TO PROJECT           229.0       549.0       564.0
APN SUBSIDY TO OPERATIONS               2.0                                            35.3         61.4        149.0       142.2       133.3
TOTAL SOURCES                         868.9      2032.2      1724.4        112.5       146.9       176.8        337.5       334.5       331.5
APPLICATIONS
INVESTMENT                            824.0      1958.0      1651.0
INTEREST                               44.9        46.4        48.6        47.9        55.9         85.8         83.8        80.8        77.8
LOAN REDEMPTION
1ST IDA CREDIT                                                        45.0        91.0         91.0        91.0        91.0        91.0
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT                                                                                       162.7        162.7       162.7
INCREASE IN CASH                                   27.8        24.8        19.6
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                    868.9      2032.2      1724.4       112.5        146,9        176.8       337.5       334.5       331.5
SOURCE; MISSION ESTIMATES
JANUARY 1981



- 62 -                                           TABLE 5.8
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APN - Consolidated Balance Sheet
(US$ Thousand)
1979       1980        1981        1982        1983        19S4        19S5
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
PROPERTY & EQUIPMENT                      23357.0    33651.0    44628.7    46402.7    48560.7    73000.9    73350.9
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION              1961.0      3127.0      4915.9      6873.8      8987.3    12479.6    16009.9
NET FIXED ASSETS                               21396.0    30524.0    39712.8    39528.9    39573.4    60521.3    57341.0
WORK IN PROGRESS                                 8110.0     4500.0      2528.0    15816.0    19218.0         350.0       350.0
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                                               1456.5      1613.7      3941.2      9944.9    16667.0
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE & INVENTORIES          2909.0      2909.0      2132.5      1674.8      1775.5      2361.5      2504.2
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                             2909.0      2909.0     3588.9      3288.6      5716.7    12306.4    19171.2
==,======= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .. ===========   w z=;=;= ... ;;=sw ...  ....=.==s w=="= ....
TOTAL ASSETS                                   32415.0    37933.0    45829.7    58633.5    64508.1    73177.7    76862.2
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
BANK OVERDRAFT                              910.0       717.0
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                            386.0       385.0       443.1       482.6       524.4       597.2       649.0
PROVISION FOR BONUSES,ETC                   124.0       124.0       124.0       124.0       124.0       124.0       124.0
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                        1420.0      1226.0      567.1       606.6       648.4       721.2       773.0
LONG TERM DEBT
IDB                                       16878.0    17500.0    17500.0    17500.0    17333.0    17000.0    16667.0
IDA                                         462.0      3662.0      5834.0    12221.0    14662.0    14607.0    14506.0
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT                            17340.0    21162.0    23334.0    29721.0    31995.0    31607.0    31173.0
KFW FINANCES                                                             891.0      4864.0      6000.0      6000.0      6000.0
RESERVES                                                                4002.7      4002.7      4002.7      9224.9      9224.9
GOVERNMENT EOUITY, RETAINED EARNINGS            13655.0    15545.0    17035.0    19439.1    21862.0    25624.6    29691.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EOUITY                     32415.0    37933.0    45829.7    58633.5    64508.1    73177.7    76862.2
CURRENT RATIO                                       2.0        2.4         6.3         5.4         8.8        17.1        24.8
Debt to Equity Ratio                              55/45       58/42      53/47        60/40      59/41        52/48       49/51
RETURN ON AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS
IN USE (APN CONSOLIDATED)
INCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE                                 5.9         6.7         8.3         8.4         9.3         8.4
EXCL. NON OPERATING REVENUE                                 2.9         4.3         6.0         6.0         7.3         6.6
SOURCE: MISSION ESTIMATES
JANUARY 1981



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Outline of Proposed Technical Assistance
A.   Assistance in Coastal Shipping Development
As a result of discussions with the Government and private agencies
concerned with coastal shipping in Haiti, on the recommendations made by
APN's consultants for the Coastal Shipping Development Study, relevant techni-
cal assistance is suggested for financing under the proposed credit; in
addition, further expansion of the coastal shipping port system will require
planning and design. The scope of this work is briefly outlined below.
1.   Vessel Inspection and Licensing
This asssignment would comprise about 15 man-months of experts'
time for the development of appropriate standards and procedures in
Government inspection and licensing of vessels in coastal trade. The
assistance would be given to TPTC in the first instance and later to
the agency mentioned in the following paragraph.
2.   Maritime Agency Administration
This assignment would assist in the development of a new agency,
to be responsible for Government administration of the maritime subsector
in Haiti. The assistance would comprise administration, organization and
staff training; a total of ten man-months of experts' time would be
involved.
3.   Additional Port Development Planning and Design
This assignment would provide assistance to APN in future expansion
of existing coastal shipping terminal facilities and/or the development of
new terminals. It would comprise analyses of the performance of coastal
shipping ports constructed under Credit 807-HA and the proposed Credit,
definition of future operational needs, preliminary engineering and economic
analyses of proposed improvements or new terminals, and (if found appropriate)
detailed engineering designs. The works to be studied may comprise such
items as construction of cargo sheds at terminals where covered storage is
not now available, deepening of port access channels, improvemant of land
access, or terminals in locations where significant prospective traffic
demand is not served adequately by existing facilities.



- 64 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
B.   Management Advisory Services to APN
1.   Establishment of a Port Maintenance Service
This assignment would assist APN in establishing routine periodic
maintenance of the major civil works already existing in Port-au-Prince and
those under construction or to be constructed at the coastal shipping ports
and at Cap Haitien. The assignment would comprise services of an engineer
specializing in port maintenance, for about 12 man-months, to assist in the
definition of maintenance procedures, the preparation of manuals, the speci-
fication of equipment and staff training. The assistance would also include
acquisition of equipment and materials required for underwater maintenance of
port structures.
2.   Establishment of a Uniform Accounting System
This assignment would provide APN with assistance in establishing
a uniform accounting system, of commercial type, to provide management with
accurate, regular and up-to-date information on port operations and financial
position. The information would be compiled and channeled in a manner and
time frame to permit management to take prompt and appropriate action in
operations. As part of the system, cost accounting and complementary
budgeting would be developed so that the financial responsibilities for the
various activities could be clearly assigned and controlled. Appropriate
training of APN staff in the use of the system would precede implementation.
The assignment would require about 14 man-months, and the uniform system
should be operational by the end of 1982.
3.   Tariff and Market Study for Cruise Ships
Assistance would be required to design appropriate charges for
cruise vessels with the aim of adjusting the current low tariffs in Cap
Haitien, making the port financially self-sufficient. Satisfactory finan-
cial results could be expected only with additional tariff increases applied
to the higher cruiseship traffic that would materialize with the new port
facilities. With gradual tariff increases, the port would be able to
achieve, as a minimum financial target, a 3% rate of return on its assets
employed by 1987 and 6% by 1989. However, in view of the importance of
the cruiseship business, port charges should be kept at a competitive level.
The potential for tourism development in the region and competition from
other ports would be assessed in about 1982. On this basis, and taking into
account Cap Haitien's financial objectives, an appropriate tariff structure
and time frame for implementation would be developed. As part of the
assignment, measures would be assessed to exceed the minimum financial
targets mentioned above and to minimize the need for subsidies in the
initial period until the targets are met.



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
4.   Tariff Study for Coastal Shipping
This assignment would assist APN in defining a permanent structure
and level for user charges in the coastal shipping ports; while an interim
tariff structure for these ports was developed, with charges based on 80%
recovery of the estimated financial benefits accruing to port users, user
acceptance and the impact of new tariffs on traffic can be assessed only
after a reasonable operational period. In 1982 (one year after the pilot
ports commence operation), the interim tariffs should be reviewed and, if
warranted, adjusted to make them affordable for the users while generating
the maximum possible revenues. The work is estimated to take about four
man-months.
February 1981



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Functions and Responsibilities of a National Maritime Agency
The functions and responsibilities of a national maritime agency
for Haiti would be to:
(1) prepare and enforce the rules and regulations governing the
maritime sector;
(2) establish and administer the safety and other criteria which
are to apply to:
(a) periodic inspection and certification of vessels;
(b) construction and repair of vessels;
(c) operation of vessels in Haitian waters; and
(d) manning of vessels, manpower development, testing and
licensing of personnel;
(3) coordinate with the Navy on matters relating to:
(a) inspection and enforcement procedures for (2) above; and
(b) provision of navigational aids and rescue services for
vessels in coastal and international trade in Haitian
waters;
(4) collect and distribute to shipping interests information on
weather and sea conditions in Haitian waters;
(5) promote the development of Haiti's merchant fleet (in coastal
and international trade) through participation in international
shipping conferences, dissemination of technical and operational
information on available services, facilitation of training,
and related educational activities; and
(6)  regulate,as necessary,the rates and tariffs for the coastal
shipping trade and the dissemination of relevant information
to users.
February 1981
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic Forecasts and Economic Evaluation
A.   Forecast of Traffic Flows at Port of Cap Haitien (Table 4.1 of report)
1.   General Methodology
Maritime traffic at Cap Haitien consists of goods (local and
international) and passengers (primarily international). Traffic flow
forecasts are a function of two factors:
(a) An assessment of the development of the goods and passenger
market under satisfactory port conditions.
(b) An estimate concerning the impact of various other investment
decisions regarding the potential generated flow of goods
and passengers.
In order to fully appreciate the impact of possible investments
on the traffic flows, two scenarios have been constructed:
(a) The anticipated situation at Cap Haitien in the absence of
any major port investment (scenario 1).
(b) The situation if the port is expanded and improved as
envisaged (scenario 2).
2.   Passenger Flow
Cruiseship Traffic. A study was performed on the future development
of cruiseship traffic (length of cruise, size of ship, growth of traffic).
The potential flow to/from Cap Haitien was assessed by analogy to actual
arrivals/departures at Puerto Plata, a port in the Dominican Republic with an
equally advantageous location with adequate infrastructure and at Miami, the
principal port of origin of the cruise passengers. With two berths rather
than one berth in operation after 1983, traffic is, therefore, assumed to
increase in proportion to the berths available at that time. From 1985 to
1989, on that basis, a growth rate in passenger flow of 7.5% was assumed:
5% to allow for an increase in cruiseship traffic and 2.5% to allow for
expanded ship capacity (para 4.03 of report).
In the absence of any major investment (scenario 1), passenger
flows are estimated to increase only very moderately (based on an anticipated
increase in the size of the ships) - they are actually expected to decrease
between 1988 and 1990 because of disrepair of existing facilities, as has
already occurred in 1978-1980.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Under scenario 2, the potential passenger flow (7.5% growth rate
p.a.) can be handled in its entirety for the first five years after completion
of the project; thereafter, the infrastructure cannot accommodate a further
expansion of traffic, and a more modest growth rate (2.5% p.a.) is assumed to
allow for the increase in the capacity of ships.
Pleasureboat Traffic. Local traffic, which today is virtually
nonexistent, is assumed to have a potential growth rate of 5% p.a. by
analogy to similar flows to/from Port-au-Prince. It is estimated that the
full demand can be accommodated, regardless of further investments in the
port.
International pleasureboat traffic is estimated to have a potential
growth rate of 15% p.a. until 1985, 10% until 1990 and 5% thereafter (by
analogy to respective flows to/from Puerto Plata). In the absence of invest-
ments, a growth of 10% p.a. until 1985 and of 5% thereafter can be accommodated;
under scenario 2, however, the projected demand can be fully satisfied.
3.   Goods Flow
Local and international flows of goods to/from the port of Cap
Haitien are limited; a potential growth rate of 5% p.a., based on the NTS
study, is assumed.
Given the concentration of international cargo shipping activity
in Port-au-Prince and the structure of the internal transport system,
improvements to the facilities will have only a relatively small impact
on the flow of goods channeled through the port of Cap Haitien.
In particular, local traffic (cabotage) will be affected only
marginally by future investment decisions. International traffic, however,
which is currently on a declining trend, primarily because of the inaccess-
ibility of the port to containerized goods, will continue to decrease in the
absence of investments. On the other hand, under scenario 2, it is estimated
that the port will be able to accommodate the entire potential demand, includ-
ing the expected rise in containerized traffic.
B.   Evaluation of Costs and Benefits of Cap Haitien Port Project
1.   Basis for calculation of costs and benefits (Table 4.3 of report, page 1)
Costs and benefits, accruing to the Haitien economy as a result
of the new investments, are estimated on the basis of (1) the additional
passenger flow (number of passengers and shipcalls), (2) the international
cargo traffic (tons, shipcalls) and (3) the employment generated by the
project (tons transported, shipcalls).



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Shipcalls      Number of Passengers        Tons
I.   Passengers
1.  Cruiseship                      x                   x
2. Pleasureboat
a.  International               x                  x
b.  Local                       x                  x
II.  International Goods
1.  Industrial park                 x                                        x
2.  Other international cargo                                                x
III. Employment
1.  Industrial park                                                          x
2.  Cruiseship                      x                                        x
2.   Calculation of costs and benefits (Table 4.3 of report, page 2)
In estimating incremental receipts and costs, two cost items, i.e.,
investments and annual maintenance and operating costs, and seven benefit
categories are taken into consideration. The latter consist of (1) port
charges, (2) onshore expenditures, (3) road transport cost savings, (4) com-
missions; (5) employment generation, (6) various works carried out during
shipcall, and (7) dock reconstruction cost savings. Each individual category
will be discussed in detail below.
In assessing economic costs and benefits, all costs are taken at
their full financial value. The same is true for certain benefits; to other
benefits, however, a percentage factor, reflecting economic costs, is applied
in order to derive the net economic benefit attributable to the project. The
net benefits, then, are calculated as follows:
US DOLLAR VALUE PER UNIT x NUMBER OF UNITS IN THE BASE x NET
BENEFIT FACTOR.
(1) Port charges are imposed on (a) cruiseship passenger traffic;
(b) goods traffic related to the industrial park; and (c) cargo vessels,
cruiseships and yachts.
(a)  Passenge. traffic:        $3 x 138,000 passengers
(b)  Cargo:                     $4 x 800 tons x 0.9 net benefit
factor
(c)  Vessels - 1.  Cruise:    15% of charges on passengers x 0.9
factor
2.  Cargo:      6.5% of charges on cargo
3.  Pleasure:  $20 x 371 calls x 0.9 net benefit
factor



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(2) Net expenditures on shore made by (a) cruiseship passengers and
cruiseship crew and (b) the persons on local and international yachts are
included in the net stream of benefits, based on 55% of tours ($5.83), 50% of
taxis ($0.77) all of expenditures on local handicraft ($7.69), 50% of drinks
($0.27), all of guides and tips ($2.20) and horses ($0.34) or almost $14.00
($13.97).
(a)  Cruiseships:               $14 x 138,000 passengers
$2 x 180 calls x 300 crew members
per ship
(b)  Pleasureboats:             $20 x 371 calls x 3 persons per
yacht
(3) Road transport cost savings: In the absence of investments
at Cap Haitien, part of the international cargo traffic would have been
transported by road to Port-au-Prince at a cost of $15.7/ton. The project,
then, represents a net saving of ($15.7 x 44,500 tons) to the economy.
(4) The shipping agent charges a commission of $300 per cruiseship
call. For international goods traffic generated by the industrial park, a
similar amount is charged, in addition to which a charge of $5 per ton is
imposed.
(a)  Cruiseships:               $250 x 180 calls x 0.8 net benefit
factor
$50 x 180 calls x 0.4 net benefit
factor
(b)  Cargo vessels:             $250 x 800 ton (or 170 calls) x 0.8
nbf 300 ton
ship
$50 x 800 ton (or 170 calls) x 0.8
nbf 300 ton
ship
$5 x 800 ton
(5) Employment creation: (a) Industrial park; 26 persons, or 10%
of the total workforce, are employed at the industrial park because of the
project; each employee contributes a net benefit of $640 to the economy
(b) cruiseships; 30 persons, or 10% of the labor force, employed on ship
making regular calls, are assumed to be Haitian nationals, contributing
$2,250 each to the economy.
(a)  Industrial park:           $640 x 26 persons
(b)  Cruiseships:               $2,250 x 3 calls x 30 persons
(6) At the time of cruiseship calls, various small works are
carried out, which have an economic value of $75 each.



- 71 
ANNEX 3
Page 5
(7) Dock reconstruction cost savings: (This case does not apply
to 1985.) In the absence of investments, the existing dock is expected to
collapse around 1988; approximately $4.2 million would be required to repair
it. With the project, such costs would be avoided, representing a net gain
to the economy of $4.2 million.
C.   Evaluation of Coastal Shipping
For the coastal ports, the total transport cost was estimated,
including line haul, loading and unloading, collection, distribution,
lightering and loss in value during transit. These costs were calculated
for truck transport, with three different road standards where available,
and for modernized coastal shipping by new or used 185-ton vessels and
traditional but motorized 27-ton sailboats. Normally three to four broad
commodity groupings per port were used, and modernized shipping compared to
the next best alternative provided the benefit. This analysis was carried
out for seven ports: Baraderes, Corail, Anse d'Hainault, Anse a Galets,
Port-a-Piment, Les Cayes and Gonaives. Where good roads exist, such as
those to the last two ports, very limited investment could be justified
since most commodities to almost all destinations would be cheaper to move
by land. For more isolated communities, a mix between road transport,
despite its high cost, and coastal shipping would take place, with high
value commodities such as coffee moving by truck, even over bad roads.
Planned road improvements would, therefore, diminish movement of commodities
by sea to certain ports even further.
In view of the limited traffic data available, a distinction between
generated traffic and normal traffic has not been possible. The relatively low
traffic growth has, therefore, been based on regular economic development in
the port areas of influence without any reference to traffic indirectly induced
by lower transport cost. A possible extreme case could be a solution where
any traffic growth is treated as generated as a result of the project. This
has been done as a sensitivity test for the coastal ports.
For all ports, the detailed calculations are shown in Table 4.6
of the report, based on the traffic forecasts in Table 4.2. These calcu-
lations have been made on the basis of market prices. The foreign exchange
content for trucks, motorships and the port construction is high, almost 80%.
For motorized sailboats, foreign exchange represents some 15% of the total
costs.
Using shadow prices for the remainder would lower the benefits in
those cases where sailboats are now the only alternative and labor would be
saved by a transition to direct access motor shipping. The major part of
this saving, however, is avoided cargo losses in imported goods or high
value exports such as coffee. Applying a shadow wage of 0.6 to 0.8 or a
general conversion factor of 0.58 to 0.78 would have very limited effect
only on those ports where sailships are now the only possible means of
transport. Since no other change using shadow prices compared to the
use of market prices would occur, market prices have been used consistently.
February 1981



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions on Financial Forecasts - Detailed Results of the Projections
A.   Assumptions
1.   General
The financial forecasts (Table 5.2 to 5.8) are based on current
prices and cover the operations of Port-au-Prince, Cap Haitien and the
coastal shipping ports. In addition to APN's past financial performance
and 1981 budget, the forecasts are based on the following specific assump-
tions.
2.   Port-au-Prince
(a) Traffic
The cargo forecast was based on the commodity projections included
in the World Bank Report Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti -
December 1978 (Volume II, Tables 10.2 and 10.3). Separate projections were
made for export and import movements, and allowance was made for increasing
ship sizes. The containerized cargo projection reflects current experience,
taking into account the handling characteristics of the various commodities.
In 1979, about 67% of the total non-liquid cargo was exported, and 59% was
imported in containers. The share of containerized export cargo was assumed
to increase by 1% annually and that of the import cargo by 3%. The number of
vessels were forecast to increase by one-half of the growth rate of the
major commodity categories (liquid bulk, container, break bulk). For the
reduction in the number of passengers (2.2% each year),- it was assumed that
the Miami-based cruiseships, with the increasing fuel prices, would reduce
their number of port calls, keeping in their itinerary what they consider the
most attractive nearby ports. A summary of the traffic forecast is shown on
the following page.



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Port-au-Prince Projected Tariff 1/
1980     1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
Liquid Cargo
(000 tons)           15.8      16.8       17.7      18.6       19.6       20.5
Break Bulk Cargo
(000 tons)          177.4    184.2      191.0      197.9      204.6      211.5
Container Cargo
(000 tons)          373.6    402.2      430.7      459.3      487.8      516.4
Total Cargo
(000 tons)        566.8    603.2      639.4      675.8      712.0      748.4
Container (000 of
TEU's) 2/            36.8      39.8       43.2       46.2      49.4       52.6
Vessels               762       775        790        803       817        831
Cruise Passengers   96,400   94,250    92,100    89,950    87,800    85,650
1/   Excluding cargo handled in private facilities.
2/   Twenty-foot equivalent units.
(b) Revenues
The current tariff structure, with 30% increase in February 1981
and an additional 20% from 1984, was assumed. Ship charges were assessed
on the gross registered tonnage (GRT) of the vessels, and the average GRT
per vessel was based on actual experiences in 1978 and 1979. The GRT per
vessel is expected to increase by 9% over the forecast period. Revenues
from cargo were projected on the basis of average charge per ton and include
wharfage, handling, storage, port development surcharge and equipment rental.
Revenues from containers were projected on the basis of average charge per TEU
and include wharfage, handling and storage. Non-operating revenues from
private port operators are expected to grow at the same rate as the operating
revenues would increase without the contemplated tariff adjustments.
(c) Costs
The number of salaried employees is assumed to remain constant;
the general salary levels were forecast to increase by 6% per year, and 0.5%
annual increase was allowed for seniority and merit. Wage projections are
based on the cost per tin of all wage payments related to non-containerized
cargo, and the wage rates were forecast to increase by 6% each year. Other
employee expenses, such as travel, are assumed to increase 2% each year.
A further annual allowance of US$180,000 was made for additional employee
benefits.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
The container crane, as well as other cargo-handling equipment, is
maintained and operated by an outside contractor. The contract includes fixed
and variable charges; for the crane, the fixed charges (about 95% of the con-
tract price in 1980) are assumed to increase annually by 2% and the variable
charges in accordance with the container traffic. For other cargo-handling
equipment, 35% of the annual contract cost (the fixed charge in 1980) was
assumed to increase by 2% each year, and the rest in proportion to the con-
tainer traffic.
Depreciation on new investment is based on straight-line amortization
with the following useful lives:
Civil Works                               50 years
Port Improvement Studies and Plans        25 years
Equipment                                 10 years
Specific annual allowances, based on the cost of the various facil-
ities, were made for periodic maintenance at the following rates:
Dredging                                  1.5%
Piers                                      .5%
Buildings                                 1.0%
Navigation Aids                           1.0%
Office Furniture and Equipment            1.0%
Land Improvements                         2.0%
Equipment                                 2.0%
In addition, US$100,000 per year was allowed for general maintenance; to
reflect general cost increases, the total maintenance cost was increased by
10% each year. Administrative expenses were forecast to grow by 10% per year.
3.   Cap Haitien
(a) Traffic
Traffic inputs were based on figures provided in Table 4.1 of the
Appraisal Report. Basic assumptions for the traffic forecast are presented in
Annex 3.
(b) Revenues
While tariffs identical to those of Port-au-Prince would be desirable
for easier tariff administration, depending on the character of the developing
traffic, the Cap Haitien tariff structure may have to be different. Neverthe-
less, the revenue forecast was by-and-large based on Port-au-Prince tariff
levels, with the following major exceptions. One dollar surcharge per cruise
passenger is assumed to be introduced in 1982. An additional US$1/passenger
surcharge would be introduced in 1984; in 1987 and 1988, the surcharges would
equal US$3/passenger and US$3.50/passenger respectively. In 1989, the surcharge
would be US$4.50/passenger. Pleasureboats are expected to pay US$5 per day.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
The coastal shipping cargo would carry a US$1/ton charge, and the modern
coastal ships would pay US$10 per day. Smaller, traditional coastal ships
would be charged US$1 per day. Commercial, modern coastal shipping and
pleasureboat tariffs were assumed to increase by 30% in 1981, by 20% in 1984,
by 30% in 1987 and by 10% in 1989. Non-operating revenue is the monthly
US$4,300 budgetary allowance received from the Government for port improvement.
(c) Costs
The Cap Haitien operation would not be labor-intensive. In 1984,
when the project would be completed, 22 permanent staff would be in the
establishment; occasional labor would be used according to need. The permanent
staff's emoluments were based on current levels and increased by 0.5% per
annum for seniority and merit. The cost projections of occasional labor
have been based on the full-year employment of two men in 1981, increasing
to five men in 1984 and thereafter. In addition, US$8 per ship was allowed
for wharf labor. Further, the general salary and wage levels were forecast
to increase by 6% each year.
Depreciation charges for existing facilities were calculated on
the following basis. Most of the existing facilities were constructed in
1953. Assuming 40 years useful life and straight line amortization, the
current net value of these facilities is estimated at US$704,000. About 30%
of the existing facilities would remain useful for another 13 years, and 70%
would be written off prior to project completion. Depreciation on new
investment is based on straight line amortization with the following useful
lives:
Sundry Civil Works                50 years
Pier                              40 years
Site Improvements                 20 years
Pilot Boat                        15 years
Electric Installation             15 years
Other (fencing, water
supply, etc.)                   10 years
From 1984, an annual allowance of US$120,000 has been made for
dredging, and the annual maintenance cost of other assets has been estimated
at US$80,000. The maintenance costs were increased by 2% per annum, allowing
for more frequent maintenance as the assets grow older. A 6% annual increase
reflects changes in price levels.
4.   Coastal Shipping Ports
(a) Traffic
The basis for projection is described in Annex 3, and traffic
forecast is summarized in Table 4.2 of the report.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
(b) Revenues
Tariffs based on 80% recovery of the estimated direct financial
benefits accruing to users were developed in 1978 and updated in August 1980.
The proposed tariffs are as follows:
Port Dues              US$ .30/GRT
Dockage                  $ .10/GRT/day
Passenger Fee            $ .20/passenger
Wharfage                 $ .04/package (estimated 56 kilos)
Tariffs were assumed to increase by 15% in 1984 and in 1987.
(c) Costs
The pilot ports would employ 21 people. Initially, the minor ports
would not have permanent staff. Periodic inspections (once in three months)
would be carried out by Coastal Port Department personnel. When the volume of
business would warrant it, employment of permanent staff would be arranged.
Twenty-one people would be working in the Coastal Ports Department;
the total number of employees is assumed to remain constant. The emoluments are
based on current salary levels with allowance for seniority and merit increases.
For the pilot ports, the cost of routine maintenance (including materials and
supplies) was estimated at US$39,000 for 1981 and assumed to grow by 2% per
annum. For the same year, fuel cost was estimated at US$3,000 and expected to
grow by 3% each year. For the other ports, the routine maintenance, inspection
and othet incidental expenses were estimated to grow from US$10,000 (in 1984
when all the seven ports become operational) to US$16,000 in 1989. An annual
allowance for periodic maintenance, 1.5% of the capital investment, was
included in the projections. In addition, to reflect general cost increases,
salary and wage levels were forecast to grow by 6%, maintenance by 10% and
other operating expenses by 8% per year. Depreciation is based on straight
line amortization with the following useful lives:
Berthing Structures                40 years
Site Developments, Buildings       20 years
Navigational Aids                  15 years
5.   Debt Costs
The proposed IDA Credit would involve the following:
(i) US$11 million would be made available to the Government
on standard IDA terms;
(ii) The Government would on-lend the same amount to APN. Repayment
would be over 25 years, including six years grace, with interest
at 1% for the first five years and 2% thereafter.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
KfW would make US$6 million available to the Government as a grant
for Gap Haitien improvements, and the Government would make available the
same amount to APN with on-lending terms identical to those of the IDA
Credit. APN would pay interest and principal repayments to a "trust fund
account" which would be kept at BRH. The accumulated funds in this account
would be available, with KfW's agreement, for future port investments.
6.   Balance Sheet Items
Accounts payable were estimated to be 10% of the working expenses;
accounts receivable were assumed to be equal to two months of operating
revenues in Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien.
APN's assets are expected to be revalued at regular intervals; fixed
assets are assumed to increase by 10% in 1981 and by 12% in 1984. The
asset values in Cap Haitien and in the coastal shipping port system are
assumed to increase by 15% both in 1987 and 1989.
B.   Detailed Results of the Financial Projections
1.   Port-au-Prince Operation
APN's operation at Port-au-Prince is expected to remain profitable;
between 1981 and 1985, the aggregate profit would be over US$15.9 million, and
the aggregate net operating income about US$14.9 million. From 1981, APN
would have annual cash surpluses even after meeting the various capital
investment requirements and operational losses in Cap Haitien and in the
coastal shipping ports. About US$16.6 million would be available by the end
of 1985 for the next major expansion of the terminal (para 2.07 of the report).
The extent of APN's profitability and fund surplus would still depend heavily
upon fees received from private port operations. During the next five years, the
average non-operating revenue is expected to be 28% of average annual profits
and 17% of internally generated fund surplus.
2.   Cap Haitien Operation
Without substantial tariff increases, the Cap Haitien port operation
would not be profitable. Current port charges are exceptionally low, about
one-half those of Port-au-Prince, and, after Puerto Plata (in the Dominican
Republic), the lowest among similar ports in the Caribbean region. Higher
charges, necessary to achieve the financial targets, are warranted since the
proposed project would provide improved facilities and better services. The
possibility of tariff adjustments, including the extent of increase and the
timing of implementatior, was carefully examined, and a tentative framework
was developed for the h_gher tariffs.
Cargo and cruiseship traffic would be the major source for the
additional revenues that would be needed to achieve the financial targets.
In 1989, given the expected traffic increases, for a 6% rate of return,
about US$2.4 million revenue would be needed. It could be obtained by increas-
ing the other-than-cruiseship charges to the Port-au-Prince level, and by
charging about US$3,700 per cruise vessel call or the equivalent of US$4.50



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
surcharge per cruise passenger. For practical application, an appropriate
combination of the charges would be desirable, and it is estimated that, by
introducing a US$2 to 3 surcharge per passenger in addition to about a US$1,200
charge per cruise vessel call, the required revenues could be obtained without
making the port uncompetitive. In this case, the ship charges would increase
about eight-fold over 10 years and the passenger charges by 100 to 150%,
making the port more expensive than Puerto Plata, Port-au-Prince or Jamaica,
but less costly than San Juan or St. Thomas.
Revenues generated by the cruiseship traffic are critical for satis-
factory financial results in Cap Haitien, but every effort should be made to
keep port charges at a competitive level. Even though sailing time and ready
availability of berthing space have more bearing on the cruise itineraries
than port charges, which are a relatively small part (probably less than 4%)
of the cruiseships' operating costs, tariff increases should be implemented
carefully, taking into account the reaction of the cruise "market." The
above-mentioned charges are based on a 10-year market and cost forecast and are
indicative only. Since the development of appropriate cruiseship tariffs is
critical, a detailed assessment of the market's ability to absorb future
charges is necessary. Therefore, in 1982, the potential of the cruiseship
market and the tariffs of other Caribbean (tourist) ports would be surveyed.
Subject to the findings of the survey, with a view to achieve the port's
stipulated financial target(s), an appropriate tariff structure would be
developed and implemented by the time of project completion. The required
consultants' assistance (about four man-months) would be financed under the
technical assistance component of the proposed project. Subsequent reassess-
ments and necessary tariff adjustments would be carried out by APN staff.
Based on the above considerations and on the forecast traffic, the
1984 operation would already provide a net operating revenue of US$40,000,
and, from this year, the operat'ion would be profitable in each year with the
exception of 1986. Operating expenses would increase at a lower rate than the
revenues since most of the costs are fixed. The operating ratios would
improve steadily from 96% in 1984 to 56% in 1989. However, between 1981 and
1983, the operational (cash) deficit would be about US$176,000, and, until
1984, Port-au-Prince's international operation would have to provide finan-
cial support, in addition to counterpart funds, for the project (about US$4.9
million).
3.   Coastal Shipping Ports
As discussed in connection with the pilot ports financed under
Credit 807-HA, I/ the coastal shipping system is expected to provide the most
1/   See Report No. 19036-HA "Staff Appraisal Report - Fifth Transport
Project," paragraphs 7.24-7.27.



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
cost effective and often the only practicable solution for transport to and
from many isolated communities along the coastline. However, finances would
be constrained, and the ports are not expected to be financially viable. Users
and operators of coastal shipping in Haiti are different from the comparatively
affluent users of international ports. Much of the cargo is low in value,
the commerce is unsophisticated and generally the passengers are poor. Many
boat users and passengers are small traders who move from one coastal community
to another to buy and sell merchandise at the local markets serving low
income groups. The vessel operators would not be willing to pay higher port
charges than what they perceive as a financial advantage from using the new port
facilities. Sailing ships, especially, would continue to use the beach or
lighterage until the advantage of direct shore access outweighs the cash
charges for port use. If the ship operators bypass the new terminals and
continue their present mode of operation, the economic benefits from the project
would not materialize.
The relative advantage of the waterborne transport is generally
narrow on routes where roads provide an alternative to coastal shipping. For
example, between Port-au-Prince and Port-de-Paix, the financial cost of
moving cargo by road was estimated in 1978 at US$18/ton, while the cost by
vessel would be about US$12/ton. Depending on the nature of the cargo,
value-related costs (time in transit, insurance) may add US$1 to US$4.50 to
the vessel cost, further reducing the relative advantage of the coastal
shipping.
Perceived financial benefits to port users would be related to the
higher efficiencies obtainable from the project facilities, such as cost
savings in terminal operations, better cargo and ship protection, reduced road
distances and reduced transport cost compared to road transport. Some of the
benefits, such as better ship protection, would not materialize immediately,
and the users might not readily recognize their values in tangrible terms.
Nevertheless, an attempt was made to quantify direct financial benefits that
the users would recognize, and a tariff structure based on 80% recovery of
their benefits was devreloped in 1978; it was updated in 1980.  While the
proposed tariffs are considered as reasonable and are expected to be well
received by the users, the impact upon the traffic can be assessed only after
a reasonable operational period of the new ports. The envisaged tariff
structure would be introduced on an interim basis, and tariff performance would
be reviewed one year after the "pilot ports" commence operations; i-n the light
of this assessment5, the tariffs would be revised, if warranted.  For this
purpose, consultancy assistance of about four man-months would be financed under
the technical assistance component of the proposed project.
The method of tariff application and revenue collection was considered
carefully with a view to institute effective financial discipline and to mini-
mize collection costs. It was concluded that no revenues should be collected
in smaller ports such as Anse d'Hainault, Baraderes and Corail where, because
of the low traffic, the cost of collection would exceed the income. However,
services in the smaller ports would not be free. The "pilot ports" and Cap
Haitien are the focal points for coastal shipping, and most of the smaller



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9
ports' traffic involves movements to and from the "pilot ports". Therefore,
until the traffic volume would justify it in the smaller ports, the "pilot
ports" and Cap Haitien would be the logical points for collecting revenues from
the users of the entire system.
Based on the above tariff considerations and on the traffic
forecast, revenues, although higher than working expenses, would not recover
the total cost of operation in the foreseeable future. In 1981, the net loss
would be about US$79,000. As the (additional) minor ports would commence
operation, the annual net losses would gradually increase to US$324,000 in
1986, but after that, because of the increasing traffic, they would decrease.
In 1989, the coastal ports would incur a net loss of about US$258,000.
Between 1981 and 1989, the operating revenues would recover about 30% of the
annual depreciation in addition to the working costs. The remainder of the
depreciation and the total interest costs would have to be met by APN's
international operations.
February 1981



- 81 -
ANNEX 5
HAITI
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
1.   National Transport Study; Louis Berger International, Inc., August 1977
(eight volumes).
2.   Preparation of Port Development Plan for Port-au-Prince; J.C. Buckley,
May 1980. Equipment Needs Report.
3.   Port-au-Prince Port Development Plan; J.C. Buckley, Inc., June 1980.
Drawings and Interim Report.
4.   Port-au-Prince Port Development Plan; J.C. Buckley, Inc., May and
September 1980; Equipment Needs Report.
5 . Port-au-Prince; Report on Cargo Operations and Equipment; Capt. Fred
Bestevaar; July 1980.
6.   Cap Haitien Port Study; BCEOM, June 1980.  Final Report, Annexes,
Drawings.
7.   Coastal Shipping Development Study, Phase I; J.C. Buckley, November 1979.
Final Report.
8.   Coastal Shipping Development Study, Phase II; J.C. Buckley, April 1980,
Interim Report.
9.   Coastal Shipping Development Study, Phase II; J.C. Buckley, September 1980,
Draft Final Report.
10. Consultative Services Relating to Maritime Safety Administration;
J. Mallejac, OMCI, March 1980. Mission Report.
11. Annuaire APN 1980-81; J.C. Buckley, January 1980. Preliminary Version.
12. Road Transport Investment Program, 1979/80-1983/84, SAT 1980.
13. Tourism Statistics 1979; Tourism Office, 1980.
14.  Le Moniteur, Gener'l Budget 1979-1980, Volume 1.
February 1981



a



HAITI
PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRESENT ORGANIZATION AND DEPARTMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NATIONAL PORT AUTHORITY (APN)
Ministry of Finance
and Economic Affairs
l~~~
Board of Directors
APN
Director Generai
APN
Port Operations Dept.         Administrative             Port Security             Technical Services          Coastal Shipping
(305)                Service Dept. (99)             Dept. (87)                  Dept. (43)                 Dept. (21)
-Physical Operation        -Budgeting                  -General Security           -Planning and              -Port-au-Prince
of Port                  -Accounting                 -Fire Brigade                 Project Design             (Cite Simone and
-Marine Activities         -Statistical Work                                       -Construction                La Saline)
-Operation and            -Payroll                                                 -Maintenance of            -Cap Haitien
Maintenance of           -Other Admin. Serv.                                        Facilities              -Jeremie
Equipment                                                   X                                               -Port-de-Paix_-
Port of
Cap Haitien (17)
-Operation of
International and
Coastal Terminal
-Accounting
Source: Annuaire APN 1980-81; APN, Payroll Office: BCEOM Report, May 1980
November 1980                                                                                                  World Ban k-22214



HAITI
PORTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year:             1980                        1981                         1982                         1983
ProjectIte                  1      2      3      4       1      2      3      4       1     2       3             1       2      3      4
Final
Design                                       Construction
1. Cap Haitien Port Development                                                                           -      -             -
Final!/
Design                                  Construction
2. Coastal Shipping Ports                         1              -                                m              -
3. Supplementary Construction                   Construction
at Port of Jeremie
4. Port-au-Prince Planning and          Planning Study,                       Feaibility  tudy          Des in
Feasibility Studies                                            WA R -  -        _      _
5. Technical Assistance to                                                                    Advisory Serv ces
ANP and Maritime Sector                                                                    l
1] Financed under Credit 807-HA
Source: Consultants' reports and mission estimates.
November 1980                                                                                                                    World Bank-22215



a o XAS, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ........, /\?
_ ?> >t fJ>~~~~~~~~~~~--- /*wif7t*d< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~--0S<+M <t8 ; Dyto@ f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~
; 2X.-','t'.-6@':' t > '. 0t ' <,..nS'0' &'t.,., i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
P~~~0-" X   - 
1     ,,,,   ,    w"d-   a                               sU  ,                                   S  ' 
c    bUO     __ \A_ I .A     
z t ___s,z<t _ %iE /0< >SAVA 09 1 Sb313WOllw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
C     S, Z :-f               - i              P0158A8~
O   >   /  3  s    <   ............ q   g3  -    '-   >k/vo*ev   6g   - x   /'  531dVqNlO3  VNOIlVNd? N -
rt X   >ov )   ft pvo vx   l <    _  ) | ;-i                                          SN?V d v 1     1 {)1~~~~~~~~~~1111
5 Z  q-~~~~~~~ a   \    :D, &/a>  X >E> J  -                                S39NV8 NlVINllOW  . j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
' i  4                    <                                                                SliVOd O N S t -~~~~
t p nqDo 4Q0W G <% ~~~s                                                                     o  >   -t l; P  ?l 01 3 0d N O l10d N8 F ld 3NNOll?dS
/ ,r , S;2* llot ,SS+ ..... D8 8 \xXI.DU3 \ W31SAS NOIlMlMOdSNtYl~~~~~~~~~~~3t4cjNo53  VN0lVNllN
'  V   <  1   S    '     <~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 133]SONno lN3wtdv1330 d
\ 2s?  \ - 9 S i5o 8 P42ltW   x 2uoswo+  Y   \  0 >:\s                  | 1 1 yt H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIV]
f ;tA   f X,0- , A X    < -'fW-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~ll
.~JV    NIINo    ,,  J
., nso,  9    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hd~OSAHd
olH'INR, , ..la )



I



________-                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15245
850               -              K2    $Q0                      GRA o3                                                 75o0                                     65                                       60 OCTOBER 1980
U  SO A
HAITI
>1  VoVwFNL`, CH/IIAl/'t
___ it$<  4 5                                                                                     PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-25 /foflaco                                     'm             og _   "                                                                                   CARIBBEAN CRUISE ROUTES
\   <)~~Nassau 11\             "              ,
e,ysn0                                                          $  XI \   \                                                                     Cruise routes
\4     Project location
\\    Uj\'K>                |      t           ' CK                                                                    Internationol boundaries
\4 \ \                 $ \  t       N                \;
'-aS~~~~N                              \\ I \ 
A Njt c
CUBA   
_0b~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0
acb             +                     X     r-        7 rr n    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-161He"l;Pue~Prt. PI.to               ,<                       R
; _ 4 ~~~~ \ X H ! 5 -IS P    A                   N     I  O L   A  .  ..................  s, >
Morit6wooEaypg _< ~ <Cs DOMINICAN  anI,vP
M. eq B.                                                 uP,irceis     REPU)BLICPURO  IHOG.  TTHMS    ,
~~~~~  '-~~~~~~~~I
a -    r- 00, ;                               .                                  a
~~  on'  os~'~~~i'"                          / &r                     z Plat      '0            o, (
-1~~~                                             -'                       N                                                           uP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                                                                                   -STHOMAS .'_* 
/MACA 't Antonio         oI                                                                                                 s -I  --  UERTOACO   4>Ui5MR
<   i                                                                    !                                                        4            e7 0         ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BARBADOS
tJ   KILOMETERS 0  100    200    300    4oo0    S700                                         A      ,
z   :                ~~~~~MILES 0       10t0        2tto  j      0                                                                BO\r' 2 $NAIRE                                      -i7'RND
/              ~~~~This m p h,, 7een& prpae r7   W ! hfsssaf t/sirl frr mhe covrhce/                  ,           7CUAA 
of~~~~~j  th'tdesobh  .prtoWWsha saece The d-  rct-,stn -sd ,Id the                               <. CURWewaCAO,
x~~     ~         ~~~~~   ~~~ , fJfufdoer ShluUylt M  snpeld.l7 I It `MSp yL7 7r t h  r p r It of t hAnrd  rmt WI  / Y d  _- k           sv,_ ~ d                                                      _ 
I                                                              >eCepflCtsSrcbo,nrr7  :~-  <U UTRINIDAD
7 ) , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>~~~~ <j~~~~-->! 7 AND TOBAGo
COSTA    ,                    fKr7rtan7a                               tj  COLOMBIA                                                                                                   K                        - BARBADOS
50'
0        i-p7\_)j                                                                                       7                                   VENEZ     
C                                                                                                                    ARB S,  ,                                                                                     Br,dg7ntown7  5t_'[  6






IBRD 15246
HAITI                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER t980
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CAP-HAITIEN PROPOSED TERMINAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                            7I
Project port expainsionN                                                                                                                         -/A
FOutn   port expansion                                                                                                                                              I'/
Areas ot given depths(in meters) to be dredged                                                             NI/                                                                                             /-
r n Existing port structures'                                                                                                                                         t//
Existieg bouit-up area                                                                                                                                          i/                                          
Existing depth contours (in meters)                                ~-                                               ,-/                                                                             ,
to3       60       90      120     150N/
Os~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4
_____                                                                                    '7-"'>'        i t ; O--                                   ------
CAP-HAITIENNv/''        //---
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
--              -      t7t~~~~~~~~~~4~~  -          / /77/' 247/  /                      __---LAAD Po"T     PCJN
-2    ~GRTUE '                ' go.,
N    /77                                                                            <'  7>--    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CpHih, .
/ J_ _-_ _                                                                                5                 -__
l 0                                                                                                                                                                                cp__   ___ _  _
HAITI       i      /A- __-  --                                                                                                                                            _
___________                 _              __               _  _   _  __    ___  _                                              __              __  _                           1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
z~ ~~ _                                  __                                                                     t_
GOAV h''"r    /                                           ___              ____                                        __                                                                ___--
20'  noenno   i   'x                                                                                                 -      -               -            -                    <-'---A ~-o -   - h   l - ,b,- 






A riANrIC  C','A N  A                                                                                               e           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo3   
U PA.  33333334~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  3P30                                               73330~~~~~~~~~~                                     03330                                               33303                         0'..  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 03 I.~~~~C
L                               -,                                                                                                                                                         N  -        3<dF3l30
P.~~~~~~~33
HAITI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                      003' 
PORbVEOPMENT PRQJECT>' 
COASTALSHIPPIN  -PRjOPOSED SYSTEM AND PORTSo00oo33
.033301030  3333  03  0  0   C  03200 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '0.,                                                                                       0ooA~~~~~~OY
03330000330    3005                                                                                  ~33Proposed03333roosted3                                                                                                    0 .1.0Npp 3n30por330si1j ,
4,   Pilo    O,fs(oAni0O005-t-. h337,3    33                                                                                              333T33rt333P33133                                                        ,33oCT)O03    3
_______  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0Sipping fou e
33330                                      3000                                                                                                                                                                                            &3333Asphalt33 ro3ds
Gravelmod. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~343                                                                                303
35~~~~30  HAITI                                                              \3                                                                                  0333                      AOsr,o3333e                                                           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UMHINH1
MKS         Eitg    rttolin   0n 530d3
IV,    nd                                     Vo3,I  u- 3 i-0.
Shipping 300103                                                                           0                 '~~~~~~~00S.3>3  -    333                               33~~~~~~                30 30            0   ~~~~.
Z~~~~~~~1513I 003'333                                                                                                                                                                                                                                03
Grvl rEAd AP3r03,                                                                                                                                                                                33 3Eod~ 
-  - flirt roodo                                                                                                                                OLMooc~~~A Y51rf
ROes03.i33A033i33 
d~~~~~~~~~
Qeposotmeot boondories                                                                                                                                                      011333 3333333'0 33D3MINiCA
330            ..          3iterrOsniOnOt boooondory                                                                                                                                                                    0oj'0,,                                                                      3303 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oii.Ann3O  0 0  0        330       40         0                                                                                                                                                                                                        i            33.
N.~~~C.P
/  ~~~-                          -   ----------...~~~~~~~~d                                                            L3-.------333,A.
C33333,3N33'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6t:                                                                                                                                                                                 113A
1/                   oo3o/                                           .~A~{40~C                                    -0k,n  3.ro<33o.    '33odo--'
I~~~                                     0330g~~~~~~C                                                        -                                                                                               .0S A-4/\3
I 0    3n01    o             333   3 3                                       
f  3  o"~~~~~~~~~  003)03333  533 ~       ~            ~             ~             ~            ~             ~            ~            ~~                        ~~~                                  ~A
'-d                                                                                         sd                                               -od~~~~~~~~ onorn3dNipe



