OFFICIA
DOCUMENTS         CREDIT NUMBER 1121 HA
Development Credit Agreement
(Port Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     /3       , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1121 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   6      c      3e /3      , 1981, between
the REPUBLIC OF HAITI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower expects to receive from the Kreditanstalt
fUr Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW) a grant   (hereinafter
called the KfW grant) in an amount of DM 9,700,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and KfW;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's
National Port Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
National Port Authority the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the National Port Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the.provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "APN" means the Borrower's National Port Authority
(Autoritg Portuaire Nationale), a public agency of the Borrower
established under Law dated June 18, 1973, as modified by Decree
dated January 21, 1974 published in the Moniteur of January 24,
1974 and Decree dated April 7, 1978 published in the Moniteur of
April 27, 1978, and any successor thereto;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the APN of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the APN pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(d) "TPTC" means the Secr6tairerie d'Etat des Travaux
Publics, Transports et Communications, a Department of the
Borrower;
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-3-
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1991, and ending December 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The APN is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit


﻿Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the APN to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the pro-
vision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, neces-
sary or appropriate to enable the APN to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
the APN under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the APN providing for a term of 25 years
including six years of grace and for interest at the rates of 1%
per annum for the first five year and 2% per annum thereafter, and
containing such other terms and conditions as shall have been
approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) To support and stimulate the development of
its maritime industry, the Borrower shall:
(i) by October 1, 1981 establish and put into operation
under the TPTC a national maritime agency with the
functions and responsibilities set forth in Sche-
dule 3 to this Agreement;
(ii) furnish to the Association prior to June 30, 1981
for its comments drafts of any legislation proposed
for the purpose of such establishment;
(iii) cause such agency to cooperate with the Borrower's
Navy and with other departments and agencies of
the Borrower in implementing a phased program
satisfactory to the Association for the development
of the maritime industry.
(b) The Borrower shall by June 30, 1982 take such steps as
shall be necessary to complete, modernize and codify its rules and
regulations governing the maritime sector and shall furnish to the


﻿-5-
Association by March 31, 1982 for its comments drafts of appro-
priate legislation proposed for the purpose.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall take such action as may
be necessary on its part to enable the APN to comply with its
obligations under Sections 4.04, 4.06 and 4.08 of the Project
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the APN continue to levy
charges on cargo handled at private terminals.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to permit the carrying out of
Pa7t B of the Project, the Borrower shall by September 30, 1981
construct a gravel-surfaced access road between the proposed
terminal site for the coastal shipping port at Baraderes and the
existing road system within that town.
(b) The Borrower shall include the upgrading of existing
roads between the proposed coastal shipping port at Anse
d'Hainault and the towns of Dame Marie and Les Irois in its
program of road upgrading for 1981-1982.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The APN shall have failed to carry out any obligation
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the APN or for the suspension of any substantial part of
its operations; and
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower or to the APN for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in


﻿part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(3) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower or the APN to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
the APN under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and to the APN; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) (i) (B) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Condition, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the APN.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿-7-
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the APN, and is legally binding upon the APN in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the APN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the 2PN in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date          132 I98'       , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 3.03 of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addres3es
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary of State for Finance and Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti


﻿-8-
Cable address:                        Telex:
SECRETAIRERIE D'ETAT DES            2030347
FINANCES ET DES AFFAIRES          FINANCE
ECONOMIQUES
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By4ce. Regional Vice President
LatiPAmerica and the Caribbean


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) Cap Haitien               3,140,000       32%
(b) Coastal ports             1,410,000       70%
(c) Jeremie                     240,000       70%
(2) Engineering, Parts             1,100,000       80%
A, B and C of the
Project
(3) Consultants' services          1,490,000       80%
(4) Unallocated                    1,320,000
TOTAL          8,700,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disburs-ment percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 10 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,120,000 may be made in respect
of Categories 1 (c), 2 and 3 on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1980;
(b) Part A of the Project until: (i) the assets of the Port
of Cap Haitien have been verified, valued, and brought into the
accounts of the APN; and (ii) the Association has been notified by
the KfW that all conditions precedent to disbursements of its
grant for the Project have been fulfilled, except for the effec-
tiveness of this Agreement;
(c) Part B of the Project until the road to be constructed
under Section 3.04 (b) has been completed; or
(d) Part D.2 of the Project until the adoption by the APN of
a general land-use plan for the port of Port-au-Prince.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿- 11 -
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion' s reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises both physical and institutional
development in the sector of marine transport and includes
specifically the following:
Part A. Cap Haitien
1.   Construction of a new 115 m wharf for passenger vessels
with ancillary facilities, including an access road.
2.   Construction of about 250 m of multipurpose wharf with
facilities for handling containers.
3.   Reconstruction of the coastal shipping dock and provision
of ancillary facilities for cargo operations and small-craft
mooring, access roads, parking and utilities.
Part B. Coastal Ports
1.   Anse ' Galet, Baraderes, Corail, Anse d'Hainault and
Port-a-Piment:    Construction of new terminal facilities to
provide berthing for two vessels of up to 200 DWT.
2.   Gonalves and Les Cayes:  Dredging, improvements in naviga-
tional aids and rehabilitation of docks.
Part C. Jeremie
Construction for shore protection.
Part D. Port-au-Prince
1.   Preparation of a general plan for development of the port.
2.   Carrying out of feasibility studies and preparation of
designs for the next phase of development of terminal facilities
for international traffic.
Part E. Sector and institutional development
1*   Development and operation of a national maritime agency
including training of staff.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Establishing standards and procedures for inspection and
licensing of vessels in coastal trade.
3.   Studies in port development planning, including analyses of
coastal shipping operations, definition of future requirements and
preinvestment studies.
4.   Improvements in periodic maintenance, including definitions
of procedures, specification of equipment and training of per-
sonnel.
5.   Establishment of a uniform accc.unting system including
cost-accounting and training of accounting staff.
6.   Conducting tariff and market studies and establishing tariff
structures based thereon for cruise ships and for coastal ship-
ping.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of     I
198  1
FOR SECRETARY


