Document of
The World Bank
FILE                        ~~~~~~FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2246-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
To
PETROQUIMICA DO SUL - COPESUL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
COPESUL PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
April 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977     March 20, 1978
Currency Unit     -      Cruzeiro (Cr$)        Cr$
US$ 1             -      Cr$14.1               16.845
CR$ 1I-                  US$0.07               0.06
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE      -     Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
CACEX     -     Carteria de Comercio Exterior do Banco do Brasil S/A
CDE       -     Conselho de Desenvolvimento Economico
CDI       -     Conselho de Desenvolvimento Industrial
CIP       -     Conselho Interministerial de Precos
CNP       -     Conselho Nacional de Petroleo
CONPETRO  -     Conselho de Implantacao do Polo Petroquimico do Estado
do Rio Grande do Sul
COPENE    -     Companhia Petroquimica do Nordeste
COPESUL   -     Companhia Petroquimica do Sul
FIBASE    -     Insumos Basicos S.A. Financiamento e Participacoes
FINEP     -     Financiadora de Estudos e Projectos
HDPE      -     High Density Polyethelene
KTI       -     Kinetics Technology International
LDPE      -     Low Density Polyethylene
LPG       -     Liquified Petroleum Gas
MONTREAL  -     Montreal Engeneria S.A.
MVC       -     Monovinyl Chloride
PETROBRAS -     Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
PETROQUISA      Petrobras Quimica S.A.
PP        -     Polypropylene
PROMON    -     Promon Engeneria S.A.
PS        -     Polystyrene
PVC       -     Polyvinyl Chloride
SBR       -     Styrene - Butadiene - Rubber
TECHNIP   -     Companie Francais d'Etudes et de Construction
FISCAL YEAR
The exchange rate used in the staff appraisal report (US$1 = Cr$14.35)
corresponds to the exchange rate as of July 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USEF ONLY
BRAZIL
COPESUL PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Companhia Petroquimica do Sul - COPESUL
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$85 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
7.5% per annum.
Project
Description:      The project would form the core of the third petrochemical
complex around which industries producing intermediate and
some of the final products would be established. The
project consists of a raw materials plant with a production
capacity of about 1,250,000 tons per year of ethylene,
propylene, butadiene, benzene and other petroleum deriva-
tives and a utilities plant consisting of (i) steam
production facilities; (ii) water treatment facilities to
treat and demineralize water for utility and process
requirements; and (iii) power generation facilities
for critical operations that cannot tolerate power inter-
ruptions. The petrochemical complex would substantially
redtuce Brazil's need to import petrochemicals and produce
neit annual foreign exchange savings of about US$510 mil-
lion (at 1977 prices) by 1985. It would also help to
diversify industry away from the main industrialized areas
of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. The project faces some
risks but government pricing policies and involvement in
selecting suitable sponsors for the downstream units
coupled with Bank and IFC involvement in the preparation
and financing of these units would reduce the risks to
acceptable levels.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                        -----US$ millions-----
Local  Foreign   Total       X
Land and Site Improvements         10.1       -      10.1    1.9
Civil Works and Buildings          44.8      7.9     52.7    9.9
Licenses and Technology              -       2.9      2.9    0.5
Engineering                        17.3    16.7      34.0    6.4
Equipment and Materials           128.1   151.1    279.2   52.3
Insurance and Freight               8.2    10.6      18.8    3.6
Erection                           89.4       -      89.4   16.7
Pre-operating Costs                42.4      4.3     46.7    8.7
Base Cost Estimate              340.3   193.5    533.8  100.0
Physical Contingencies             33.0    19.4      52.4
Price Contingencies                76.9    42.9    119.8
Installed Cost                  450.2   255.8    706.0
Working Capital                    50.9       -      50.9
Financial Charges during
Construction                     39.2    39.9      79.1
Total Project Cost           540.3   295.7    836.0
Financing Plan:
US$ Millions
Equity contributions from
PETROQUISA and FIBASE                             334.4
BNDE Loan                                           241.7
IDB Loans                                           111.7
Foreign Private Lenders                              33.0
French Credit Line & Suppliers Credits               30.2
Proposed IBRD Loan                                   85.0
Total                                          836.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                        -------------- US$ Millions ----------
Bank FY 1979    1980       1981     1982
Annual                    15.0     32.0      26.0      12.0
Cumulative                15.0     47.0      73.0      85.0
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return for the complex is 20% and
the financial rates of return for the project are 18%
before taxes and 15% after taxes.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1842-BR, dated April 12, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE COMPANHIA PETROQUIMICA
DO SUL - COPESUL FOR A PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Companhia Petroquimica do Sul - COPESUL (COPESITL) with the guarantee
of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$85 million to
help finance a petrochemical project in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace with interest
at 7.5% per annum. The Government of Brazil would charge COPESUL a guarantee
fee of 2.5% per annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan bringing the
cost of the loan to COPESUL to 10% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR), dated
October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 21,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth
in GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance-of-payments
performance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967 to 1973 and a
process of export diversif.ication significantly reduced Brazil's dependence
upon coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the
same time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the
early 1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflaition of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespresad monetary correction and indexation of financial
instruments helped to minimize the distortions which often accompany inflation
(although indexing makes ilt more difficult to reduce the level of inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at 9.5% in
that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-payments
performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The continuation
of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp deterioration
in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to US$4.7 billion.
The elimination of that deficit has been a major objective of economic policy
since that time. To this end the Government fortified simultaneously its
policies of export promotion and of import substitution. As a result of these
policies, the trade gap closed progressively year by year. In 1977 excep-
tionally high coffee prices contributed towards a strong increase of export
1/   This part has been reprinted from the President's Report on the Sixth
Highway Project (No. P-2233-BR, dated April 11, 1978 and distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1978).



- 2 -
revenues and the trade gap was eliminated entirely in that year. It is pro-
jected that the trade gap will remain closed even though coffee prices have
already rolled back significantly from the high levels prevailing in early
1977. This expectation is predicated on a major effort to expand other
exports, particularly of manufactured goods.
5.        Inflation is another problem that has become a focus of attention
in recent years. Sharp rises in the prices of petroleum and other imported
goods in 1974 gave an added impetus to inflationary pressures which were
already building up in the Brazilian economy even prior to the world economic
crisis. Inflation increased in 1974 and continued to accelerate in the
subsequent two years reaching a peak of 46% in 1976. The Government has
employed a wide range of monetary and fiscal instruments to combat inflation.
Interest rate policy has in general been realistic, except in the agricultural
sector where systematic subsidization of interest rates has complicated
monetary management. Particularly significant is the much greater control now
exercised by the Federal Government over the investment programs of public
sector decentralized agencies. There is evidence that these policies are
having effect. Inflation for 1977 was some 39%, and in the second half of
1977 inflation slowed to a rate of some 30% on an annual basis. If the
Government continues to exercise careful control over monetary and fiscal
policy, further headway against inflation is likely.
6.        Brazil's economic performance since 1974 has been deeply affected
by balance-of-payments constraints. Growth fluctuated sharply from 4.2% in
1975 to 8.7% in 1976 and down again to 6% in 1977 as the Government searched
for an appropriate balance between expansion on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the need to resolve difficulties in the balance of payments and in the
domestic inflationary situation. The Government recognizes the need for con-
tinued moderation in growth during the next two or three years if inflation
is to be kept under control, the balance of payments is to be further improved
and a sound basis for longer term development is to be preserved. It is
projected that growth may average little more than 6% during the remaining
years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication that
Brazil has the potential to sustain higher levels of growth provided (a) that
reasonable expansion of output and trade takes place in the industrial coun-
tries, and (b) that sound economic policies are consistently pursued in Brazil.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
7.        The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture received
explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved over
the past several years (particularly in soya production) justify the priority
given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising the
living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier lands
of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive schemes
have been introduced to encourage exports. However, Brazil's industrial



- 3 -
development strategy now concentrates upon import-substitution programs in
steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and capital goods.
Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of these products by the early
1980s. Beyond that point these same industries may develop a good export
potential.
8.        Public sector investment accounts for more than half of total
fixed investment in the Brazilian economy. It is heavily concentrated in
infrastructure and basic industry. These two areas together account for
about 70% of total investment by federal Government agencies and enterprises.
Regional development and social programs absorb most of the remaining 30%.
Until 1975, the rapid expansion of public investment reflected a heavy empha-
sis on road construction and regional development. The Second National
Development Plan (1975--79) added a massive program of import substitution in
basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in the pace of social programs.
Since 1977, however, severe restraints have been placed on public investment,
in order to reduce a growing public sector savings gap and the accompanying
balance-of-payments deficit. The sectors most affected are road and rail
transport, whose ambitious expansion plans have been cut back sharply.
Investments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at a high
level, and in basic inclustries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and petro-
leum, are being steppecl up considerably. The share of regional development
programs in total federal investment has now stabilized at about 7%. The
percentage allocated to social investment is increasing gradually, reflect-
ing continued expansion of public investment in housing, water supply and
sewerage, and other urban development programs.
9.        Despite its impressive growth performance and vast future potential,
Brazil is still a country with extensive poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the country's poverty problem and accepts responsibility for
its alleviation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that
a high rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it
does not believe that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough
and has formulated a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution with
growth." To implement this policy, in addition to pursuing some of the social
programs initiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures
in three broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social
services; and (c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended
to have a favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is
designed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through inter
alia, formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects,
which in some cases include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based
on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous
whole. Therefore, the Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large
portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.
The Bank has made loans for integrated rural development in four of these sub-
regions, and various others are in preparation.



- 4 -
11.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The
Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the
previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given
by the National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which
will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help
housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agri-
culture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer;
and the new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. In November 1974, the
Government revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and the real minimum wage was increased in 1975 and again in 1976.
While in 1977 the Government restricted wage increases as part of a policy
package designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does
not signify any basic change in its longer term goal of improving income
distribution.
12.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion annual average for 1974-76,
it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from official and
private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80. This
projection assumes that it will be possible to sustain and subsequently
improve upon the trade balance achieved in 1977, with export volume rising
at an average rate of 11.5% annually in 1977-80, and import growth held down
to only 2.8% a year in real terms during this period. The outlook for
Brazil's principal export commodities is quite favorable for the next several
years, and it is expected that the good overall export performance projected
here can be achieved, provided that the country continues to follow present
exchange rate policies to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured exports.
On the import side, several major import-substitution programs are already
having a notable impact. The further development of these programs should
enable Brazil to continue to restrain imports without jeopardizing growth.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's estimated public external debt
amounted to about US$16.6 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1977
is estimated at some 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the 1970s and reflects a
higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure. Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end-1977 is estimated at US$29.5 billion and somewhat over
two-thirds of this debt (some US$20 billion) is in the form of financial
credits. The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1977 was
about 41% compared with an average of 38% during the early 1970s. However,



- 5 -
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977 were about US$7.0 billion,
equivalent to some six months' imports of goods and non-factor services and
sufficient to cover neaLrly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign
exchange reserves ensures that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between public and
private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively. Much will
depend upon the extent to which the Government will extend its guarantee to
loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even assuming that
a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number of cases, it
is projected tentatively that the public debt service ratio will peak in the
late 1970s at about 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by 1985 is
projected, assuming that Brazil can increase the values of its exports by an
average of 17% per annum and that the average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years. The country's record of
financial and economic management provides grounds for confidence in the main-
tenance of creditworthiiness over the longer run. Nevertheless, there can be
no doubt that very careful management of the external accounts will continue
to be necessary.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
14.       By February :28, 1978, the Bank had made 74 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$3,199.4 mill:Lon, of which 36 were not yet fully disbursed.  During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to
an average of US$150 million per year during FY70-75, reaching US$248 million
in FY75, US$202 million in FY76 and US$267 million in FY77. During the first
half of FY78, US$129 million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in
FY76 was due primarily to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disburse-
ments are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Since FY75, Bank lending to Brazil has amounted to between US$400
and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling US$426.5
million; in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million and in FY77, seven loans
totalling US$425 million. So far in FY78, five loans have been approved:
US$17 million for an integrated rural development project in Ceara,
US$110 million for a sewage collection and treatment project in Greater
Sao Paulo, US$24 million for an integrated rural development project in
Paraiba, US$130 for a power distribution project in the South and Southeast
and US$114 million for a highway maintenance and rehabilitation project in
Parana. Work is relatively advanced on the preparation of an agricultural
extension project; another rural development project in the Northeast;
an aluminum project; and an industrial pollution control project in Sao
Paulo.



- 6 -
16.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$16.6 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present
trends continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt
outstanding would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt
service would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt service would remain at the present level
of 2.8%.
17.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of February 28, 1978, IFC had made commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$332 million, of which US$203 million had been cancelled, repaid
or sold. Of the balance of US$129 million, US$102 million represent loans and
US$27 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments up to February 28, 1978,
is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
18.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective is to help to intensify the
efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that will increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the population,
broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and improve their
living conditions. The proposed urban transport project is addressed to this
objective. It has been designed to benefit public transport users in urban
areas most of whom are below the relative poverty level. It would expand the
range of employment opportunities open to low income segments of the population
by reducing their travel time to work and by providing all-weather access for
public transport in the peripheral areas of the large cities. The recently
approved loans for the nutrition research and development, vocational training,
agricultural research, Lower Sao Francisco polders and Greater Sao Paulo sewage
collection and treatment projects, and for the integrated rural development
projects in the states of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara and Paraiba
were all designed to assist low-income groups. Additional projects to reach
low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation, including a sites and
services project, sewerage and water supply projects in several northeastern
states and a medium-sized cities development project. Additional integrated
rural development projects directed at low-income farmers are also in
preparation.
19.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed, inter alia, to help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically.  The proposed project will
contribute toward assisting a new company, COPESUL, to build up its management
team and prepare it to oversee the further development of the petrochemical
complex. As part of the project, the government will also review its pricing
policy in the petrochemical sector. The institution-building objective has also
been important in Bank assistance to the transportation sector where emphasis
has been given to the rational selection of investments, the strengthening of



- 7 -
railway operations, and the improvement of the railways' financial performance.
Loans for electric power, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research
and extension, and urban development also have important institution-building
objectives.
20.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective has been placed in the forefront of the government's economic
policy. The proposed COPESUL project will assist Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale, efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for fertilizer projects as well as its lending for
agro-industries in the center and south of Brazil has also supported this
objective. Furthermore, much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport
sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is also designed to facilitate the
smooth and economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program
is helping Brazil expand its domestic output of traditional import commodi-
ties which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample
supply of high-grade iron ore and scale of its internal markets. A similar
objective would be achieved through an aluminum project presently under
preparation.
21.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international community as an important sign of confidence in Brazil and
encourages them to continue their own programs there. In some sectors, espe-
cially in fertilizer, electric power and steel, the Bank's participation has
helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources in greater amounts and more
favorable terms. In thie petrochemical sector, Bank participation is also
expected to help Brazil obtain additional bilateral commercial resources on
attractive terms. COPESUL is presently canvassing a number of private banks
for a loan of about $33 million to complete the financing plan for the pro-
posed project. If through our participation in this project COPESUL is able
to obtain more favorable terms, as expected, we propose to provide co-financing
links for the private financing with our proposed loan, as has been done in
connection with other Bank loans in Brazil. We expect further external loans
to be negotiated by the various downstream units with commercial banks for
which a project is presently under preparation in conjunction with IFC. Since
1976, five co-financing operations for Brazil have been concluded with private
financial institutions, involving private financing of $204 million, and several
others are in preparation.



- 8 -
PART III - THE PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRY SECTOR
Petrochemical Industry in Brazil
22.       Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the
Brazilian economy in the recent past. During 1967 to 1976, real industrial
value added increased at an average annual rate of 11%. Its growth dropped
to 4% in 1975 as a result of balance of payments constraints, but recovered in
1976 to 11%. The most dynamic element in Brazil's industrial expansion has
been the production of consumer durables and capital goods, which grew at
an annual rate of 18% between 1967 and 1976. Production of intermediate
goods (chemicals, fertilizers, paper, rubber, semi-finished metals), which
account for 42% of industrial output, has grown at 12% a year on average since
1967. Increased production of these intermediate goods has, however, not kept
pace with domestic demand and imports are of them reached US$3.4 billion in
1976, or about 30% of total imports.
23.       Within the subsector of intermediate goods, the chemical industry
has grown at an average rate of 13.5%, increasing its share of industrial
output from 15% in 1967 to about 18% in 1976. This achievement is largely
due to the petrochemical industry which has grown at about 19% annually over
the same period. The petrochemical industry includes the basic raw materials,
intermediates and final products manufactured from crude oil or natural gas
feedstocks. Because of the multiplicity of products involved, the demand for
petrochemicals is usually analyzed by calculating the derived ethylene demand,
ethylene being the most important basic ingredient for petrochemicals. Ethy-
lene consumption increased from 58,000 metric tons in 1966 to 560,000 tons in
1976, at an annual rate exceeding 25%. Currently, more than 85% of ethylene
consumption in Brazil is accounted for by the five major thermoplastics (low
and high density polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride, polystryrene and polypro-
pylene) and styrene butadiene rubber. Between 1966 and 1976, domestic con-
sumption of the five major thermoplastics also increased annually at 25%
and that of styrene butadiene rubber at 15%.
24.       The two most utilized thermoplastics in Brazil are low density
polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride, which account together for about two-
thirds of total consumption. High density polyethylene and polystyrene have
more limited applications and hence are consumed much less. The consumption of
polypropylene is even lower as there is no domestic production. Although
these five major thermoplastics cover most of the range of usual applications,
their use is heavily concentrated in packaging (40%) and construction (19%).
Other important thermoplastic applications include industrial and household
goods, and film and sheet used in industrial and agricultural applications,
including irrigation and storage. Tires account for about two-thirds of
consumption of styrene butadiene rubber.
25.       Brazilian petrochemical industry initially evolved around the refinery
in Cubatao, near Sao Paulo, owned by Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. - PETROBRAS, the
large government-owned petroleum company. After the refinery was modified
in the late sixties to produce ethylene and propylene, a number of privately



- 9 -
sponsored petrochemical plants were built. In 1972 the Petroquimica Uniao
ethylene plant, with a capacity of about 940,000 tpy of petrochemical raw
materials, including 3,40,000 tpy ethylene, was commissioned. It provided the
main base for the development of the Sao Paulo petrochemical complex, the first
such complex in the country. The majority shareholder of Petroquimica Uniao is
Petrobras Quimica S.A. (PETROQUISA), a wholly owned subsidiary of PETROBRAS.
PETROQUISA is also the majority shareholder of COPESUL.
26.       By 1976, total investment in the Sao Paulo complex, including down-
stream plants involving about 50 companies, amounted to about US$2 billion.
Products manufactured at the complex, either for direct sales or for conversion
into other products at the complex, include solvents, synthetic rubber, deter-
gents, thermoplastics such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride, and nylon
for textiles. Annual foreign exchange savings from the complex amounted to
about US$600 million in 1976. Nevertheless, the Sao Paulo petrochemical out-
put is still far short of national demand and Brazil's imports of petrochemical
products in 1976 totalled US$1.1 billion (or about 8% of total imports).
27.       In the early seventies, as part of its policy to improve the country's
long-term balance of payment prospects through large-scale import substitution
in a number of key industries, the Government developed plans for additional
petrochemical capacity aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in most petrochemi-
cals by the early 1980s. After some consideration of an expansion of the Sao
Paulo complex, the Government decided to build a second complex in the state
of Bahia in the Northeast, to (i) decentralize industry away from the congested
Sao Paulo area, (ii) foster regional development; and (iii) encourage competi-
tion in the petrochemical industry. The Bahia complex consists of 30 projects
under construction or already completed, and is expected to become fully
operational before the end of 1978. The raw materials plant, Companhia
Petroquimica do Nordeste S.A. (COPENE), will use naphtha and gas oil from a
nearby PETROBRAS refinery. Its capacity will be about 900,000 tpy out of
which 385,000 tpy is ethylene. Investments in the complex will total about
US$2.7 billion.
28.       In 1975, the Government decided that capacity for petrochemicals
should be further expanded through a third complex to be located in the state
of Rio Grande do Sul in the south, in line with the above mentioned policies
of decentralization and petrochemical self-sufficiency by the early 1980s.
Compared with the Bahia complex, the third complex has a larger capacity
but fewer downstream units. Its core consists of the COPESUL raw materials
and utilities plant (the project), which will produce basic raw materials such
as ethylene, propylene, butadiene and benzene for supply, along with steam and
other utilities, to at least seven downstream (or "second generation") units.
The downstream units will produce primarily thermoplastics including low-
density polyethylene, high-density polythylene, polyvinyl chloride, polypro-
pylene, styrene and polystyrene, as well as styrene butadiene rubber. These
products will in turn serve as input materials for transformation industries
(or "third generation") units manufacturing a wide variety of products such as
bags, containers, bottles, construction materials, film and sheet for general,
agricultural and industrial use, household articles, electrical, automotive



- 10 -
and other parts, footwear, etc. The third complex will be located in a new
industrial estate of 13,000 hectares, about 30 km from Porto Alegre, the
capital of the state of Rio Grande do Sul.
The Petrochemical Market
29.       The demand for ethylene-based products was primarily met by imports
(about 90% in 1971), until the commissioning of the Sao Paulo ethylene plant
in 1972 (see paras. 25 and 26). Since then, only about 36% of ethylene-
based petrochemicals consumed (expressed in ethylene content) have been
imported. Nevertheless, the total import bill for petrochemicals has kept
growing.
30.       Despite substantial and growing imports of petrochemicals, the
petrochemical transformation industry (primarily thermoplastics) currently
shows average capacity utilization rates of only 60-65%. This is partly the
result of a pause in the growth of demand following measures taken by the
government during 1975/76 to restrain aggregate demand in the economy. More
important, though, are the effects of a repressed demand resulting from
constant shortages of locally produced petrochemicals and from Government
efforts to discourage imports. Imports are penalized, through high tariffs
and a costly import deposit system raising the cost of some imported petro-
chemicals up to 200% of international prices. The net result is that trans-
formation industries cannot afford to pay for these imports and are forced to
operate below optimum levels even though the market would justify higher
production. Increased availability of domestically produced thermoplastics
at competitive prices, after the commissioning of the second and third petro-
chemical complexes, would assist these industries to increase their production
levels and meet domestic market demands.
31.       The overall annual growth rate for thermoplastics demand for the
period 1978-85 is estimated at 13%. Amongst the individual thermoplastics,
polypropylene, a versatile and cost-effective material, is expected to con-
tinue to be the fastest growing thermoplastic (22% annual growth) in all major
end-use categories. Its price advantage in the packaging field will enable it
to score gains over the other thermoplastics such as low-density polyethylene,
and increase its share of total thermoplastics consumption from 8% in 1976 to
about 13% in 1985. The second fastest growing thermoplastic is likely to be
high-density polyethylene (18% annual growth). It is expected to make strong
advances mainly in the construction industry in the form of easily installed,
flexible, large-diameter pipes for sewerage and similar uses. It is also
expected to be increasingly used for the manufacture of automobile parts.
Polypropylene and high-density polyethylene are, therefore, expected to
account for more than one-fourth the total thermoplastics consumption by
1985 as against one-fifth at present. The share of polystyrene (13% annual
growth rate) is expected to remain at about its present level. Despite slower
than average growth, low-density polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride will
still hold about 60% of the thermoplastics market in 1985 as against two-thirds
at present. The low-density polyethylene's overall growth of 10% annually is
likely to be partly achieved, despite strong competition from polypropylene,



- 11 -
through increased applications in agriculture, including irrigation and
storage. It should also increase its share in the container field. Polyvinyl
chloride is expected to grow somewhat faster (11% annually), primarily as
piping material in the construction industry and for water supply.
32.       Compared to thermoplastics, demand for styrene butadiene rubber,
the other major ethylene consumer, is expected to grow at a slower rate. Its
consumption is projected to grow at about 8% annually during 1976-85, as com-
pared to a growth rate of 15% during the last decade, both because of a
gradual reduction in the average styrene butadiene rubber content of tires and
expected-slower growth of the automobile industry.
33.       The above forecasts for thermoplastics and styrene butadiene rubber
demand result in a derived forecast of ethylene demand of 1.8 million tons in
1985, or an average annual growth of 13.8%. This implies that Brazil will
continue to have a deficit in ethylene-based products, even after the commis-
sioning of the second and third petrochemical complexes. To test the implica-
tions of a more sluggish consumption such as the one that followed the 1974
energy crisis, a worst case forecast was developed using international petro-
chemicals consumption data for the period immediately following that crisis;
even this forecast shows that demand and supply in the Brazilian petrochemi-
cals market would be approximately balanced after the third complex comes on
stream.
Government Policies in the Petrochemical Sector
34.       Besides improving long-term balance-of-payment prospects and promot-
ing industrial decentralization, the second and third complex represent a
systematic application of a tripartite ownership scheme, in which the raw
materials center is fully owned by state-owned enterprises (with PETROQUISA
as the majority shareholder), while the equity of the downstream companies
is divided between private Brazilian enterprises, PETROQUISA and private
foreign capital. This siystem is designed to maintain Brazilian government
influence over the overaLll complex while insuring that the capital of the
downstream units is undebr both Brazilian and private control, with the
foreign contribution providing capital inflows and technology transfer.
35.       In the development of the petrochemical industry in Brazil, there
has also been a gradual change in the strategy for promotion of technology
transfer. Whereas in the first complex in Sao Paulo, many firms acquired
know-how for the operation of their plants by purchasing it from a foreign
company for the exclusive use of the plant being built, almost all the firms
involved in the Bahia complex are acquiring technology under arrangements that
permit them to transfer it to their other plants. Furthermore, most firms
supplying the technology in the Bahia complex are also participating as share-
holders. In the third complex in which the technical partners will also be
shareholders, technology is being acquired by Brazilian engineering and
equipment-building industries on terms that enable them to use this technology
for any future petrochemical plant in Brazil and possibly export it to other
countries.



- 12 -
36.       At present, the government limits prices through the Interministerial
Price Commission (CIP) to a level allowing an after tax return on investment
of about 16% at 80% capacity utilization. This policy, which is similar to
that pursued in some other basic industries, can result in different prices
being charged for the same product by producers with different cost structures.
However, such a policy does not now present a problem in the petrochemical
sector, because only one complex is currently in operation and because the
demand for petrochemicals is much greater than domestic production. However,
when the Bahia complex is commissioned in mid-1978 and the third complex
about four years later, both with costs higher than the existing Sao Paulo
complex, the entire petrochemical pricing philosophy will have to be rethought.
The government plans to study not only pricing policy but also the related
subject of market development. It expects to complete its study by December
31, 1979. The Bank would be consulted on the terms of reference and recom-
mendations of the study.
Bank Group Strategy in the Petrochemical Sector
37.       The core of the third petrochemical complex -- the COPESUL raw
materials plant -- would be financed by the proposed loan and represents the
first involvement of the Bank in this sector. However, IFC has had substan-
tial experience in the Brazilian petrochemical sector, extending over more
than ten years. Its investments include Petroquimica Uniao (138 BR), Poliole-
finas (162 BR), Oxiteno (190 BR) and Capuava Carbonos Industrias (294 BR) in
the Sao Paulo petrochemical complex and Oxiteno Nordeste (314 BR) in the
Bahia complex. In the third complex, IFC's efforts are being directed to
assure adequate off-take capacity to coincide with COPESUL's commissioning.
IFC has met with the sponsors of every major downstream unit with substantial
private sector ownership. Its proposal for an investment in the Poliolefinas
low-density polyethylene project is the most advanced. Active discussions are
being held with the sponsors of the high-density polyethylene and polypropylene
projects, which are the next most advanced of the downstream units, with a
view to possible IFC investments in early FY79. IFC intends to arrange loan
syndications where possible for downstream projects, as well as providing
loans and equity for its own portfolio when needed. Because of the importance
of the downstream units to COPESUL and to the complex, the Bank and IFC are
collaborating closely to help timely start-up of the second generation units.
The Bank has also been asked to consider a second petrochemical loan to assist
in covering any gaps in the financing of the foreign exchange costs of the
remaining downstream units.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on COPESUL Petrochemical
Project," No. 1842-BR, dated April 12, 1978, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The project was submitted to the Bank in October 1976,
and after some preparation work was appraised by a mission that visited Brazil



- 13 -
in September 1977. A follow-up appraisal was done in January 1978. Negotia-
tions with the Federal and State governments, COPESUL and its shareholders
were held in Washington from March 27 to March 31, 1978. The Borrower,
COPESUL, was represented by Mr. Jose Augusto Angrisani and Mr. Carlos
Gilberto Guttman.
Project Description
39.       The proposed project would form the core of the third petrochemical
complex around which the second and most of the later third generation indus-
tries would be established. It would include (i) the raw materials plant which
would furnish basic petrochemical raw materials, primarily ethylene, propylene,
butadiene and benzene to the downstream units, and (ii) the utilities plant
designed to supply steaim and treated water, not only to the raw materials
plant but also to the downstream units. The main sub-unit would be the
ethylene plant where ethylene and its co-products would be formed through the
cracking of naphtha at very high temperatures. The plant would be able to
produce a range of product mixes. The process employed would be modern
and economic scaled, based on commercially proven technology. The project's
capacity would be about 1,250,000 tpy of petrochemical products including
450,000 tpy ethylene and 120,000 tpy propylene. The basic feedstock, naphtha,
would come from a nearby PETROBRAS refinery which would be expanded to meet
not only COPESUL's requirements of about 1,500,000 tpy but also those of other
users in the South. Steam would be produced by COPESUL within the project
using local coal, for wlhich there is little alternative use. The site
has good access to rail, road and river transportation, as well as to water
and power supply. A nuimber of infrastructure and environmental control
projects would be executed by COPESUL and the state of Rio Grande do Sul to
support the proposed project and complex. The state would also establish by
September 30, 1978, solid, liquid and air effluent emission standards for the
Complex (draft Project A.greement Section 3).
Project Execution and Operation
40.       The responsibility for the execution and operation of the Project
would rest with COPESUL, which was established for this purpose in June 1976.
COPESUL is owned by PETROQUISA (51%), a subsidiary of PETROBRAS, and by
FIBASE (49%), a subsidiary of BNDE.
41.       COPESUL has contracted with a consortium of two foreign engineer-
ing firms, Compagnie Francaise d'Etudes et de Construction (Technip), France,
and Kinetics Technology International (KTI), Netherlands, and two Brazilian
engineering firms, PROMON and MONTREAL, to provide engineering services for
the design, installation and commissioning of the COPESUL project. The
engineering firms would provide competent technical personnel to coordinate
and supervise the engineering works, as well as activities related to construc-
tion, cost control and scheduling. They would also transfer ethylene tech-
nology to the local engineering firms and to PETROBRAS and PETROQUISA.



- 14 -
42.       COPESUL would use experienced personnel including its own staff, plus
others seconded on long-term assignments from PETROBRAS and PETROQUISA, and
from COPESUL's sister project, COPENE, to execute the proposed project. Most
of the staff would continue with the project during commissioning and commer-
cial operations.
43.       The proposed project would provide direct employment for about 1,400
people, most of whom would be professional or skilled craftsmen. The staff
would be recruited primarily in the south except for those transferred from
PETROBRAS, PETROQUISA and COPENE. Second generation downstream units would
employ another 4,000 people. Third generation plants would create as many as
10,000 new job opportunities by 1985. PETROBRAS and PETROQUISA have excellent,
well-established training programs from which the skilled personnel would be
forthcoming. PETROQUISA would coordinate employment and training programs
for the entire complex.
44.       PETROQUISA would also assist COPESUL in fulfilling its coordinating
responsibilities for the entire petrochemical complex. COPESUL would coordi-
nate all technical aspects of the complex and PETROQUISA, the arranging of
financing, obtaining of government approvals, establishing of a satisfactory
corporate structure for the downstream units and training of manpower. The
state government would cooperate with the companies in the complex to ensure
the successful execution of the complex (draft Project Agreement, Sections 2
and 5). The state government would also complete all infrastructure projects
on an agreed schedule and make financing available for them (draft Project
Agreement, Sections 2 and 3). The Federal Government would take such action
as is appropriate to ensure that all the downstream units are constructed
according to an agreed time schedule (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.06).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project, including working capital and
interest during construction, is estimated at US$836 million, including an
estimated foreign exchange component of about US$296 million equivalent. The
cost estimate includes physical contingencies of 9.8%, and is considered
prudent when compared with other similar projects. Price contingencies,
in US dollar terms, have been added as follows: for equipment and materials:
7.5% in 1977/78 and 1978/79 and 7% per annum thereafter; for civil works
and buildings: 9% in 1977/78 and 1978/79 and 8% per annum thereafter.
46.       The financing plan for the proposed project calls for an equity con-
tribution of US$334.4 million equivalent from PETROQUISA (51%) and FIBASE (49%),
representing 40% of the total financing required. FIBASE's contribution would
be made on the understanding that private companies sponsoring the downstream
plants might at any time purchase shares from FIBASE. The major debt financ-
ing source would be BNDE, with a loan of US$242 million equivalent at 6%
interest and 13 years repayment including 5-1/2 years of grace, covering
29% of financing requirements. The financial positions of PETROQUISA, FIBASE
and BNDE are such that, despite the large absolute amounts involved, the
complex's fund requirements are relatively small compared to the resources of



- 15 -
these institutions. In view of the critical importance of timely and adequate
provision of funds for the successful implementation of the complex, the
shareholders would ensure that the downstream units are completed on a time
schedule consistent with that of the Project (draft Shareholders Agreement
Sections 4, 5, and 6). The Federal government would ensure the provision of
funds as needed to complete the project and the infrastructure needed for the
complex (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02); and issue all required
approvals and authorizations for the timely completion of the complex (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).
47.       The rest of the financing plan is as follows:  the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) made a loan to Brazil last October including US$16.2
million to finance COPESUL's foreign engineering and licensing costs. IDB is
planning a second loan in the amount of US$95.5 million which would be set up
as a joint financing operation with the proposed Bank loan and which is shortly
to be presented to its Board. It would finance 85% of the cost of the coal-
fired boiler system for the utilities plant. IDB would thus contribute 13%
of the total financing required - a condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan would be that all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of
the IDB loan (except effec:tiveness of the Bank loan) had been fulfilled (see
draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b). The proposed Bank loan of US$85 mil-
lion, representing about 10% of the total financing required and 29% of foreign
costs, would finance process equipment and materials for COPESUL's raw materials
plant, and 15% of the coal-fired boiler system. A syndicate of French banks led
by Credit Lyonnais has already offered a tied credit line with attractive terms
(8.6% interest, 14.5 years repayment including 4.5 years of grace). While its
use would depend on the value of contracts won by French suppliers, it is tenta-
tively estimated that COPESUL would use about $22 million of this line of credit.
Supplier credits are expected to provide the other US$8 million. A private
foreign loan of about US$33 million is expected to complete the financing plan.
This loan would be linked to the Bank's loan, with the Bank loan agreement
amended to include a cross-default clause (draft Loan Agreement Sections 6.01;
6.02(c) and 6.03). There would also be a memorandum of agreement between the
Bank and the private bank, similar to that incorporated into recent co-financing
operations. This agreemenit would provide for exchange of information between the
Bank and the private bank and, depending on which private bank's proposal is
accepted by COPESUL, would stipulate whether the Bank would act as a billing
agent for payment of principal and interest to the private bank. The Executive
Directors would be informed once these arrangements are finalized.
48.       In drawing up its financing plan, COPESUL has tried to maximize
the use of bilateral and multilateral financing sources open to Brazil, with
the view to assure satisfactory debt service coverage and the maintenance of
a sound financial position. The resulting financing plan should achieve
these goals.
49.       Pending a revision of the current pricing policy it is conservatively
assumed that COPESUL's seLling prices when it starts operating in 1982 would
be 20% higher in real terns than the prices currently charged by Sao Paulo's
Petroquimica Uniao, though these would be below ceiling prices set by the
government under its usual formula (see para. 36). The government would not
take any action with respect to the selling prices of COPESUL and the other



- 16 -
companies in the Complex that would prevent them from making a reasonable
return on their investment (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.05).
COPESUL's net sales are expected to increase from about US$320 million in 1982
to US$780 million in 1985; of this principal product sales would account for
about 95% and utilities and other services for about 5%. This would result in
net profit after tax of US$8.0 million in 1982, increasing to US$75 million in
1983, and US$163 million in 1985.
50.       The financial rates of return be 54/46 in 1982, and would improve
thereafter. The financial rates of return of the project in constant terms
are 15% after taxes and 18% before taxes. This return is most sensitive to
changes in sales prices but less sensitive to changes in capital costs.
Lowering the sales prices by 10% would reduce the financial return to 14%
before taxes while a 10% increase in capital costs would reduce it to 17%.
The profit and cash break-even capacity utilization is about 47% and 24%
respectively. During construction of the project, COPESUL would maintain a
debt/equity ratio of 70/30 or better and after completion of the project it
would maintain a debt/equity of 60/40 or better, a liquidity ratio of at least
1.0:1.0 and a debt service coverage of 1.5 or better (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 5.04). It is expected that COPESUL would be able to meet these tests
comfortably.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       In accordance with a government policy aimed at supporting and
developing the Brazilian capital goods industry, 50% of the value of equipment
and materials required by the project would be procured only from Brazilian
suppliers. The higher cost of equipment thus reserved for local procurement
is expected to increase the total cost of the project by less than 5%. Such
equipment would be paid for from resources other than the Bank loan. Procure-
ment of equipment to be financed by the Bank would be through international
competitive bidding or international shopping in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. Brazilian suppliers would be allowed a preference margin of 15%
(or the import duty rate if lower). On this basis it is estimated that about
20% (US$17.0 million) of the fob value of the equipment to be financed by the
Bank might be won by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement of the coal-fired
boiler system to be financed jointly with the Inter-American Development Bank
loan would also be made through international competitive bidding consistent
with the Bank's Guidelines. COPESUL proposes to use a limited form of compe-
titive bidding to procure equipment and materials which would be financed by
buyers' and suppliers' credits, including the French line of credit which is
already available (see para. 47). For this category, credit terms would be
taken into account in bid comparison.
52.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 15% of the foreign
expenditures for the coal-fired boiler system to be jointly financed with the
Inter-American Development Bank which would finance the other 85% (US$13.0
million); (b) 100% of foreign expenditures on imported equipment or of the
ex-factory cost of equipment contracts awarded to Brazilian suppliers after



- 17 -
international competitive bidding (US$41.0); (c) 100% of imported items and
packages costing less than US$200,000 each procured through international
shopping (US$11.0 million); (d) 100% of imported technically specialized items
with bidders restricted to proven suppliers (US$9.0 million); and (e) interest
during construction on the Bank loan (US$11.0 million). About $20 million in
contracts for equipment and materials will have been signed before the expected
signing date of the proposed Bank loan and will involve down payments in an
estimated amount of US$4 mLllion. These down payments made after February 1,
1978 would be eligible for retroactive financing from the proposed loan, as
would be the payments for the balance of the contracts committed before the
signing date of the loan. It is estimated that the Bank loan would be fully
disbursed by 1982.
Benefits and Risks
53.       Since the main products of the project, ethylene and propylene, are
not commonly traded internationally, it is not possible to determine meaning-
ful international prices for them. Therefore, a complex-wide economic analysis,
including downstream units, has been made to evaluate the economic benefits
of the project. The economic rate of return for the complex is 20%. A shadow
exchange rate, 25% higher than the official rate, was used to reflect foreign
trade distortions caused by import tariffs, export taxes and subsidies, as
well as other forms of import restrictions and export incentives. Sensitivity
tests show that, as with the financial return, the economic return is affected
more by changes in prices than in operating or capital costs. It would still
be 16% if prices declined lby 10% but would be 23% if prices increased by 10%.
A change of only two percentage points in the economic rate of return would
be registered if capital or operating costs went up or down by 10%. The
project would also have a major positive impact on the country's balance of
payments. In 1976, Brazil spent US$1.1 billion on imported petrochemicals and
US$3.5 billion on imported crude oil. Only 5% of the crude oil is currently
used to make petrochemicals. After the second and third petrochemical complexes
start operations, this prolportion would increase to about 7%, but would substan-
tially reduce the need to import petrochemicals. Net annual foreign exchange
savings by 1985 when the Rio Grande do Sul complex would reach its full
operating capacity are estimated at US$510 million at 1977 prices, or about
12% of Brazil's projected current account deficit in 1985. In addition; the
petrochemical complex would have a significant effect on the development of
Brazil's southern region by stimulating the growth of related industries and
creating additional job opportunities. The COPESUL project alone is expected
to create 1,400 new jobs. The second generation downstream units would create
another 4,000 jobs whereas the more labor-intensive third generation units are
expected to create about 10,000 additional job opportunities.
54.       The project would face some risks but these are considered to be
at acceptable levels. The main risk concerns the schedule of execution of
the downstream units. These units would be the sole consumers of the ethylene
and propylene to be produced by the project. Their timely start-up is
therefore critical to the project's success. The cash flow sensitivity
analysis indicates that a six-month delay in the start-up of the main down-
stream units would reduce 'COPESUL's debt service coverage to about 1.0 in



- 18 -
1982, and a year's delay would result in a negative cash position of about
US$50 million in that year. This risk would in part be reduced by the
government's policy of setting prices at levels that would give the necessary
incentive to private investors to execute their projects on a schedule con-
sistent with COPESUL's plans (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.05). The
risk would be further reduced by the government undertaking to take such action
as shall be appropriate to ensure that the downstream projects are carried out
in accordance with the agreed schedule (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.06). Also the commitment of the state government to cooperate with the
companies in the complex would serve to minimize this risk (para. 44). Finally,
the involvement of both the IFC and the Bank in the preparation and financing
of the downstream units should reduce this risk (see para. 37). Another
uncertain factor is the price to be charged for the project end products since
the government pricing policy in this sector is due for revision. The govern-
ment's agreement to conduct a price and market development study, and to
refrain from taking action with respect to product prices that would prevent
companies in the complex from making a reasonable return in their investment,
should reduce this risk to an acceptable level (see paras. 36 and 49).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Companhia Petroquimica
do Sul, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
state of Rio Grande do Sul, the draft Shareholder Agreement between the Bank
and Petroleo Brasileiro S.A., Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico,
Petrobras Quimica S.A. - PETROQUISA and Insumos Basicos S.A. Financiamento e
Participacoes - FIBASE; and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan would be that all
conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the IDB loan (except
effectiveness of the Bank loan) had been fulfilled (see para. 47).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
E'ART VI --RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 26, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page i
BAZt                   * $      ;SOCIAL INDICAT7ORS DATA 80E1T
LAND AREA I?4Ou 091                        . .        .    .      .      . .        .    ........
...............                                        BRAZIL                                     RE7ERINCE COU9TRIES 11970)
T3nAL       8512.0                                              mnO5  RECENT
*Ct'CT       2D29.6                            900        19C70    ESTIIATE             MEXICO           UIRUGUAY          JAPAN
CN' 818 (40070  rUISS                         lOO  ti*    S530        1140,0/.'               6900.0        940. 0      26300*
....................
POPJLAT!rb  AND V0T*L StAT1107C8
'0PUL*'Ir'0  6900Y9,  '4l.LiO'4)            198.         e2.6       110.0 /a                50.,           2.7        100.3
013 SOjISE CM,8.0                                       11.0        13.0 'a               2,.0          15.0         280.0
N!9 o     9   AGIICJLTIIEAL  LANO           44.0      0a,e          54.0 a                s2.0          18.0        1704.0
VIYAL STA,ISTICS
(808F  86870 lAtE  COVDou. 101             00.9         38.6        37.1 033.                           22.1          17,s
eC4OE OE*70 RAT! f/7T0JtV)                 I1.7 I9                   88 1A0.                             *.2           7.1
T'A.NT  MMRT1 LITY RAl1  ti3XOU           180.0        11.0 tlO                           0 SO 53.I
LIFE EOPECYANCY AT 810T1   t 'S)           10.0        5 94          I 4.                  62. a        SR3           71.1
QRcos  *fSRtloucT134 RATF                   2.          2.0         7.5                    3             1 .4         1. 0
DOPUL0TIsN GR.TW RATt (0t)
TOTAL                                       l.          2.,         2.9                    3,0           0.7          1.0
ORRA.                                       S*5          5,0         4.0                    A.R           1.2          4.0
JR4AN 0OJb,LaTTrOJ 19    7t   0!i7TAL        00 0         SS0 C       5so1                  S,?           78.1         8a4.
hot 0TUJeTURC cPPCrtENbI
0 71 Ia YEA::                             41.6        r2,n         al*7                  Ut,.2         28.3          24.0
5 Tn       YEArnS                          Sa,.         55.0        55.1                  501           b6.S5         08.9
SS otro<  A0O OVE4                          1.0          3.0         3,2                    S,7          A.2           7.1
*CE MEPENOENCY 9AT13                           0.9         0.8          oo                    I,0n          0.b           0.5
!Cl4e1"TC moF"fbo4Cr e7TIM                                 I . l S. .4  b                     2,.n          t.o           o,s6
rAMTI,Y PL %NT NG
ACCE'PTO   CCU4U6AT&vF0. TOM)                 .        500                                5S,.
EMS    D  tln'llRE    oc>IS.. 
rT3AL   1       ,I,0  '0CE (T7J USN0 1    '2700,o    29400.0        34100 0               l00o .        1o20        53300.0
L4RVD '3RrF 1i' AG'!CJ1LtU*E  t1)            52.0         40,4         37:8 tS.,                           17.0          19.0
J0E(OL'rY89  CZ OF LA3D14 FIRC[)                           7 5          5 0                                  .0 /a        I 2
tN03.f n7?q?1nUVT3m
wI7!T   5t sIt orOUSWOLC`9                 390         3e,e /:             5       ,       97.          19.0 s       10.2
.Ir;FST 20s oF HIUjcS0LOS                  I2,1        o2,0 I          ,                  r3,2          07.5/b        37.0
L0wEST   201 oF HOJSEwOLO8                 3:4          3.0 ;         ,                     ,          .0:,  5b .8
LOWES T  00 0F o 3jtwOLns                  10.1!        100 ;                             10 .2        10.2 7b        2.3
OISTeMI9TTIN (IF LAN3 3N9FR94T7
I  .~.Pir77.10        '.. . .....05.                                      ..........
X npNFI AY SALLE1STtO   3o0(NEQS                ..         1.5           ..                   0 
0EALT.  *AD %UTPOtTjn
............
aoPJLhTTl,. 819 40010(Ia,T  T70.0                       190,n0       1650.0 /c             100n.n         880.0        880.0
S3DULATTInM PEP  ljlJ03.1.; P4O3                ,.      3?20,o /   2920.0 /d               1020.0 /a   133o0o          200.0
0)P,iLA?1'lk. PER o'qPITri QF61             175.'        2to6.        260.0                 6bo0,         170.0         80 0
'ER rT"ST4 SU7PPY 31 r
CiL'bl0S ts I)  4FaJ1P!%FN,)              1 f 02.     I 1o0,.      115.0                  flo,o        107 0         100.0
P'I1IFN  tGQ4.S -FR  38,1                  Sl.o         64.0        67.0                    5.0n         0o.0         76.0
. l    .T,d   * qT.. * il POLRE        39.0         09. 0          ,2    lb                         6sa.           05 .0
3EATw "fF 4  (/T43U) AGEq 1.0                                                                               1 .3          1.0
EOJCDAT?t 
SOIyMRY l CMtlOL                           g%o          97F0         86.0                 1 0          I 06.0      100.0
9E1',&qY  SCw 1ML                          11.0           . .        26.0                  22 n         57.0          91.0
YE(44  'IF  tCwnLlMV& PRJVIOEM
(FTwRT   4&N  <EIN4  LEVFL)                  1.         .,          12.0                                12.           12.n
v,C ATT"AL FNNO;LLF4?
tX  9i 0ctCnlA9l9                          19.0         170         1R.0 /J                7400         21,0          20.0
471L1 L 1FlACv OAE  C                        A.,0         660   4         ,                  7.0           91.0          n9.0
40JSI Nr
'ER5900  PER 8E 0o  CUA 1UR't,.) It t/                                                        2.2                          .0
'tCUPIE2 nVELL1493S .IT?ouT
I'11 El wTE9 (8)
'C*C(    IJ Et L C        C Tlt IC Y C t I'2j                                              SI.O/c           .           5. 0
f8 nr ALL OwELL1O;q)                         -.        04.0         55.6                   59.0
9LJ9AL DoELL0I  C(001CTtD(
*1 FLEcTPfcy?r (t)                                       t4. 80      12.5                  2S 0
0003,-oDTT lq
9a7oT   1eobvEpS t'CI  'WPER I  m! * 6',0                  00 n        62.0                 276.0         306.0         5st .0
b-sw' j7D (089  (PER TA9U PnP1                 7.0        25,0         35.0                  oi.0    2      lS.0         80.
ELFC'JYCTTy (V.4/vl PER c0P8                102.0 n       01,0       084,0                  5S7.n         702.0       3031.0
AE.SDOII.T (KG/YR PER CAP)                     1.1         2.7          2.5                    I,0          7,0          18.9
.......................................
S! 'qO0 oC. l 91 T I 02J8 30 'E fE'DSt



- 21 -
Page 2
NOT 5
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1940 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 19747 between 1968 and 1970 and for Meet Reconc Eatimsto betwen
1973 and 1975.
a GNP per capita data are based on World Sank Atlta nathodology (1974-76 beais).
Japan ham baen selected as an objective country steae the Brazilian Govrn_ant has shown particular intarest in Japan's developmnc txperince,
also the two goverenes have conducted joint atudias to idencify possible future economic probli    of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japan.
BRAZIT      1960    Ls  Economically active population.
ON7   /L  Ecomically active population;    /b  Hospital persmneal;    /c  Inside only.
MT SiZQ! !rrm AU           4   1976;      /b  ltto of population under 15 and 65 and over to total laoor force;    Gc  1972;    /d  1971;
/* Inside only.
MEXUCO      1970    /a  Ineuding  *ssistst nurses;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Imid  only.
tUR UAY    1970    /a  Mantervdeo only;    /b  1967.
R13, August 2, 1977
Land Arms (thou 1r2)                                                                        PD SU4aion Par nursing person - Population divtded by nu%mbar of practicing
'tal - Total surface are  coprising land area ad  slani wetr.                               % l  ad female graduate nursee, "trained" or "certified" nurses, nd
Arc. - Iest rsecnt do ti_te of agricultural area used tomporerily or payr-                   auxiliary personnel with training or experiece.
nvncly for cree, pesturee,   ret & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Porulatio  per hoodital bed - Population divided by numaber of hoepital beds
.veilable in public  nd private general and apetalized hospital and
CZ4? por capita (019)- GNP per capita astinets  at current market prices,                     rehabilitation centers; excludea nursing home and astabliahents for
calculated by em  convertion method a* world Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   cuatodial nd preventive care
1960; 1970 ad 1975 data.                                                                 Par capita supply of celories (7 of requirnmnct) - Coted torm  ergy
aquivalent of mt food supplies available in country per capita per day;
PoPulatio  and vttel ststitic;                                                               available supplies comprise dmestic production, imporcs les exports, snd
Population (nid-year million)   As of July first:  if not available,  verage                  changes in stock; net supplies excluds antmal feed, seeds, quantities uad
of two end-pear atimatee; 1-460, 1970 and 1975 data,                                        in food processing and loses in distribution; requir_senta  -re estimated
by FAO based on physiological neda for moral activiry  nd health con id-
Population denoitt - Per qaure be - Mid-yesr population par square kilomter                  ertng environmntal t_perature, body wights, age  cd sex distributions of
(100 hectares) of total aree.                                                              population, end allowing 102 for weace at household level.
Population denaity - per saugre km of wgric. land - Computed as above for                   Per capita suoppl of protein (tr_  por day) - Protein content of per capita
agricuLturel land only.                                                                     net upply of food per day; met supply of food is defined do above; require-
ents for a11 countries tablished by USDA Economic Rea.erch Services
VitaL statistics                                                                              provide for a mintax allowance of 60 grnna of total protein per day, and
Crude birth retc per thousand. average - Annual live birtrh  per thouend of                   20 girn  of antial Bnd pulse protein, of which 10 gria should be animal
mid-year population; ten-yer stithutlc averagee ending in 1960 ed 1970,                     protein; these standards are lowr than those of 75 gnrme of total protein
and five-year avrage ending in 1975 for most recant estimate,                              and 23 gros  of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rte per thoiaand. averae - Annul death. pex thousand of mid-.ssr                   in the Third World Food Survey.
population; tco-year arith_tic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein supply from mnutal *nd P.lae - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recant  stints.                                        dertivd from  anile  nd pulses in grin  per day.
Infant mortality rate U/thou) - Annual deatha of infants under one Fear of age              Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group I-
Per thousand live births.                                                                   pears, to children in thin age group; suggested as an tdicator of
Life expectancy at birth tye) - Averags numer of years of life raneining at                    alnutritmon.
i rth; uuslly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing councrtre.
Cross reproduction rate - Average numbar of liv  daughters a voman  ill beer                Adluacedenrollment ratio - Primrv chool - Enrollmnt of all ages a, per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present  gs-g pecific                  ctnrge of primry school-age populatin; includes children aged 6-11  ea"r
fsrttlity rates; usually fiv-year avergees andig in 1160, 1970 and 1975                     but adjusetd for different lsngthe of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                   universal education, earollmnt mAy  xceed 100  suince aom pupils are below
Population xrowth rac  (Z) - total - Compound annual growth rates of nid-y er                 or above the official school ag.
population for t950-60  1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adjusted enrollmnt rotio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population srowth rco ca,     - urban - Computed like growth rete of total                    education requiree at I"t four years of apprwed primry instruction;
population; different definitions of urban arees nay affect comprabiitty of                 provids general, vocational or tescher training inatruociona for pupils
data a=ong countries,                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses ar  generally sxnluied.
Urban                   C.ultio  t2 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; difformnt  Yars of schoolins provided (first end ascond levels) - Total yeas  of
definttiona of urb*n *are" may affect comparability of data moo"  countries,                schooling; at secondary lvel, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely excluded.
Axe structure (nercent) - Children (0-14 Fears) ,orki L-amga (15.64 years)                  Vo       It of secondary; - Vocational inaitucion  incude
and ratired (65 years and over) as percentages  of mid-yer population,                      ee     i      idu trial or ocher progras which operate independently or as
An. dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to thoem                  deperents of secondary inscitutions.
o  ags. 15 through 64.                                                                    Adult literacy rate Cl) - Literaec  adults  able to red avnd writ) as per-
Sconomic deondency ratto - Ratio of populaion order i5 and 65 and over co                     centage of total adult population aged 15 years and ovr.
che labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Ftinly planning - a*ccptors (tuhuLativ. thou) - Zoouiacive nober of acceptors               Ho
of birth-control dic. under auspies of national f_mily planning progr_                    Persan  per room (urban) - Average number of pereona per room in occupied
iLnce iancption,                                                                              conventional dwllings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-pemmanent
F esil plannng -users *   of maerriad womn)n    Panedtgesomarewiof                        structures and unouccpiad parts.
chtid-bearing age  15    year) who  a birth-control dZvice  to all married                Occupied dellings without piped water     - Occupied conventional dvallinge
Vaubn in dne age group.                                                                     in urban and rural  Nrea  without inaida or outoide piped -ater facilities
an percentage of all occupied dwellings.
_________t                                                                                  Ac cogs to electricity Cl of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor forte (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                   electricity in living quarters as percent  f total dwlilings in orba  and
force  and unployed but  excluding hosaw,nves, students, aec.; definition                   rural sreea.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                  Rural dwellinas connected to electricity  l   ComPutad as shov  for rural
labor force in agriculture C7) - Agricultural labor force (In farming, forestry,              dwellings orly.
hunting snd fishing) as percentag of total labor force.
Unomplovd CZ of labor force) - Unaployed are daually defined as persons who                 Consumption
are able  nd willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, romained out             Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All typ-e of rceivers for redis broadcasts
of a job, and  aseking work for a specified elnimom  period not exceeding one               to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed rscei,,r,
weak; mY not be comparable betwen countrisa due to different definitions                    in countrtes and in years when regisration of radio sacs wee in eff c;
of unanployed  nd source of data, e.g, g _ploynent office  statistics, eaple                date for recent years ma not be comparoble since *oet countries abolished
surveY, compulsory unumployusnt insurance.                                                  lictning.
Passe:ne care Iper thou pop) - Passe.nger cars comprise motor cars seating
Incom  distribution - Percentage of private lnom  (both in cash and kind)                     ls  then eight persns; exclude  mbuLances, hearses and military
received by richest 5t, richest 20,, pooresc 20%, and poorest 407 of house-                 vehicles.
holde.                                                                                    Electricity (Wkh/yr Per cap) - Annual consueption of industrial. conmrcial,
public and private electricity in kilowett hours Per capita, gantr.lly
Diatribution of Inmd ownership - Perceotegas of land owned by wealthiest 10D                   based on productin deta, Without ellmancn for leon" in srida but allow-
*nd poorest 10t of land owners.                                                             ing for isports  nd   ports of electricity.
Nemrint (kg/yr Par cap) - Per capita annul consumption in kilogram
h                                           i     th end Nutrition      gatimated from dmestic production plus mac Imports of neprint.
opulation per phlsician - Population divided by nunb-r of practicing
physicians quelified from a aedical school at univ-rsity level.



- 22-
P.1060761c 007I'W0 ATA SIlO!
A.  941127042. 40~~~~~C(07010              191001,0.g 7-  00   107 T oo.  o9od Oool,n..6000AV  .r,ro o901
*  (07 (0I,..0  Poto,,)                 17,001~~~~~T'RI  es34 'Al,le  .4                   9.6039            101.491          174,172           109,849          7,5          6.          6. 7          000.0        lO?            2712.1          702.2
T.'0,.?o  T~..o- f Ir,0                                          -701            -1,704           *0,40I               .777           -2,740           -4.014-.-                                                             11-21-.
3.                   1-,,  0mt   l,.o.0                7.01            64.270            07,140           05.0101           001.006          121,424           104,200          7.0          4.3         6.           10.   100.0  too.0(                         100.0
&    2o,o,,.,o.                          ~~~~~~           ~~~~~ ~                              ~~~7.57  057,704  6,29  6079.203                   i4, 104         2.6          2.6         0.              .            0.7,           7.               .
S.  P.op...o,. - Volo,,                  ~~~~~~          ~~~~~6,504 01       7.01            7,301               71              12046            10,505          3.5         10.5        00.4            6.5           7.             9.31           1.
4.  ?.p..rt. - TO Ad).~~~~~~~ol,.         0.~596           S.51             0.500             S. 04              7,I01            S., Sy          04,619         .0.           9.9         11.0             .5          0.2            2.07.
7.0 Go,   o  (4.                                   90             ,7.              3,-3             2.1335               910              04               -271          -             -                          .3           2.5           05-.
6   C..,,.o,,oOl.o                       0~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~1,520  66.040  60,035       7410                "0.S9           03,600           139.407          74           3.56         6.2           79.0ll 0I0.                 712              54
9.   I,~~~~~~~~~.,oo                     2~~~~~~~7,343    21.904           20 500           2,2                 21,01a          20,365            45.100          73            .6.722.31                              S2.            2.4             24.4
20.  0,tl.ooI SooIo0.                    1~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~5,605  14.95   4,4             17)5023                             25,71            40,0            3.           10.          0.09          20.1         20.4           21.             232
II -  T.o,,.o01~    ~               04.062           02,70             17,310           190722,100                          271.7F34         40,106          5.01          0.6        10.3           21.0         20.1           22.02.
6.   RCVUAOO7TOr TRADE6                               HIMl-  UI60   t COl-rot P,lio.                                                                                                                                          A. P00-0"l  of Toqs   !~or.
C,,,,,,,oor l2.,.,.1,               ~~~~~~           ~~~1,025  0,620   0,356            0510               0.305            2,036             4,220         10.s7?'s.                               16.2          12.13          11.2           00.61
ro,ol,,o  -d4 04IOlO                                11            2,640             2,673           3,503               I.053           5,250             0,20           1.          10.0          9.0          10.           29.2           2..I0.
100,rO..dl,Oo~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~:I 0,42214             1,073             4.006            3.6064             3.6055           5,02(4           0,2           1.              .         17.0           315.6        29.6           27.7            26.6
71.o.06o0 C......9,                 2,163~          ~~~~~~           ~ 3,100  3,902     1,517              I,00             0,060            11,711        10.0          11.0        20.3          14.6          2.32.2                         10.5
T.t,l, (F00)                              6.192           12,041            07,060           13,227             02.690           14,101            36,242        16.7          10.3        16.0          100.0        200.0          100.0           000.0
2.  7.p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,oo                                                                                                                                              A. Orroont of Total Export.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  o ..t  -'      .-t
c,.0r.o   0,046              000               034            2.106              3,492            2.716             2.949        21.0           3.4        .0.7          1TJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  23.2799  14.50   6.0,
OtO. AgrIcoIt-la Goo,9                           2,600             .1               24 1            3.029               3,946           4,105"            14.703         40          20.2         06.           40.2          29.9           32.4            34.3
40     61               t. 012          0.065              0,062            2.433             3,041         14.5         22.4        19.3            66           1.              291.
S-Ir-P.o,d  2.... ar .                             4 76             424               645              709                949            1,269            2,753         16.3         22.6         16.6           7.7           7.6            4.7             4.
Go?c0, -1 o..                             3,326            2,066             2.379           2,449              2.946            5.524            09.231         22.3         22.          23.1          20.           24.2           30.2            3.1
00t.7                                              M6               095               2090             501                497              592               030        33.0         00.6          9.62.                       3.0            3.1             2.2
TOol      ,                    6,20~~~~~~~~~~~~~'9  7,951         0,4 70          to.010             031,916         10.022            4.0,09         17.           7.9         07.9         100.0         100.0          1000.0          100.0
C.     SOCT~1 OR 0029                                     lr-ot 01 NOT at F-.to  Co-t  t0 1973 ti .. o. 6.-h.o,o  Role
0.  A4,1-1t-I 0                                            11.3             1511.01                            14.3             24.6              14.4            12.2.                      6-,          5,3
2.  000.7,?                                ~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~                         ~~~33.30. 22.0J33.5  53.4            15.0            34.        .  .-             .9         0.6
7.  5oroloro                                               50.              57.0              52.2            3.52.3                             02.a             53.           7.           6.0          9.0
0.      -1Ic.oJo7St:o
I.P'pr   .~ In.!.                               100              213               124              146                071              079                71         9.9           5.2         7.0
2.  10. 1       F7  trI.O.lo                              100              054               171             104                 192              202                320       06.48         7.I          6.1
3.  T.PtZ  ,      17.n.l  Id.!.                           I00              00                74              60                  9                724               76                         
4.  V,... orI 1,1.  Wo.Io                                 foe              t20               144             33                   -..                                              
5.  F..n,              R-ol..o  I.000                                      012               11407                                                                    --
I.  1200                        1.60             3.40              1~~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.00  2.62                        I.  Loboo to... (. I IoI-)              29.4        542        39.4
5.  207070 P.000017117          1.93            -0.01             ~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~     ~~~~0.46  0.03  2.  Oo.tyoo    .       2.2        6.9
3,  Oo,oo~, OoOIon.l 0.0, A. 61               02               0.12              0.22             0.23I                                                        (2 of V.I.)
6.  OIor0lnaI 0.tlo....I ~*'l0 . 6..          0.3I             0.03              0.29             0.20                                                  3.  Eolont(oOlo                            7.2       32.4       34.7
0.  l,.po,t.fOOP                        ~~~~~~     ~~ ~~~~~0.02   .  .0  0.0  74   0.0976                                                                (2sl,.
6.  lo.on/170.229                                                      0.207             0.225            0.2 )55.1   Ago'Iootoo4.                                                                                   7.7.6
7. --..,,  Co?.p!46                                 0.00             0.04              0.01            -0.52                                                31.2.Id.y1.                                            19.4       16.
1.0.  6..4..3.                                          0.7       6.
C.   JLI  216  2
C'.   a  6,,oo.1    t                                10.6            1010.51                            204
43.  C.,,,,nl.   r. tl 0O0                              I .,             5.6              3.0               .
M.    C7plO,I  RoODE t,A7, GOVER4.NT                                                       5.6              4.6
4.I.  C.ooo,.o,nO PloS.. t. . 010    0000          S.              .4.a               14.0
At.      1.00  I004.CVR607116106                    Proto  Tt19                           1
101141          1070              100721
2.   th, - ola 0t  ,10.                              22.4             34-  0            74.0r,107
4  toto ,..t'    00,10                           1.              0.                0.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                          Page 4
(Million US$)
-                A C T U A L                      Preliminary Estimate            P R O J E C T E D
1973           1974           1975           1976            1977          1978           1979           1980           1985
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                        6,596          8,471          9,255         10,657         13,583         15,464          17,374         20,232         46,766
2.    Imports (incl. NFS)                                        7,577         14,678         14,296         14,435         14,902         16,829          18,948         21,276         44,809
3.    Resource Balance                                           - 981         _6,207         -5,037         -3,778         -1,319          -1,365         -1,574         -1.043          1,957
4.    Net Factor Service Income                                  - 734             9;,       -_,735          -2,288         -2,624          -3,051         =3,383         -3.791          _s46
1.  Net Interest Payments                                     - 514          - 652         -1,463         -1,758         -2,159         -2.533          -2,810         -3,155         _4,336
2.  Direct Investment Income                                  - 198          _ 248          - 235          - 380          - 415           - 468          - 523          - 586         -1,030
3.  Other Factor Service Income                               -  22          -  16          -  37          - 150          -  50          -  50           -  50          -  50          -  50
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                       27              1            -                 4             10             10             10             10              10
6.    Balance on Current Account                                -1,688         -7,122         -6,772         -6,062          -3,933         -4.407         -4.948         -4,825          -3,449
7.    Private Direct Investment                                    940            887            895           I,oid          1,050          1,100          1,265          1,455          .2,340
Medium and Long Term Loans
a. Official Sources
8.    Disbursemeets                                                562            979            856             768          1,024          1,234          1,404           1,585          2,722
9.    Amortization                                                -217          -191           -273            - 384          - 367          - 391          - 488           - 597         -1,519
10.    Net Disbursements                                            345            788            583             384            657            842             915            988          1,203
b. Private Sources
11.    Disbursements                                              3,993          6,080          5,974           7,388          5,218          6,354           7,416          7,370          9,215
12.    Amortization                                              _1,455         -1,716         -1,868          -2,488         -2,992         -3,892         -4,649          -4.989         -7,024
13.    Net Disbursements                                          2,538          4,364          4,106           4,900          2,226          2,462           2,767          2,381          2,191
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                                           7            -                                                             _  _ 
15.    Short-term Capital and Capital NEI                           424          - 123          - 142           1,961            255             -              -              _              _
16.    Change in Reserves (- = increase)                         -2,559            953          1,046          -2.193           -255             -              -              -           -1,706
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                                  6,551          5,598          4,552           6,745          7,000          7,000          7,000           7,000         11,202
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.    Totai MSLT Loan                                            4,770          7,034          6,946           8,687
1.1.  IBRD                                                         199            140            426             486
1.2.  IDB                                                           86            203            167             186
1.3.  Govermients                                                  529            518             512          1,251
1.4.  Suppliers                                                    857          1,088          1,376          '1,300
1.5.  Bonds                                                         37             25            -               139
1.6.  Financial Credits                                          3.146          5,103          4.515           6,076
C.  Memorandum Items
1.    Grant Elemcnt of Total Cosmnitments                            2.5            2.5             2.5             2.5
2.    Average Interest (Percent)                                     8.8            9.5             9.5             9.4
3.    Avcrage Maturity (Yeairs)                                      7.2            9.0             9.9            8.3
January 1978



-  24
DEBT AND CRE                           ~~~~~~ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTRlNESS */                          Page 5
1973            1974            1975           1976
A.  Medium-and Long-Tcrm Debt.
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                       12,571           17,166         21,171          25,985
1.  Financial Credits             ,                ,          7,848           11,211         14,561         18,194
2,  Others (Bil., Multi., Bonds, Suppliers)                   4,723            5,955          6,610          7,791
3.  Public and Ptublicly Guaranteed                           6,496           8,533          11,461         14,852
4.  Private                                                   6,075            8,633          9,710          11,133
2.  Net Debt Service                                              2,186            2,572          3,583          4,668
,1.  Total Interest                                               840           1,370          l, 28           2,039
2.  Net Interest                                                514              652          1,463          1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                            __1,28-7                       1,550           1,990
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio                                            28.6            30.4           38.7           43.3
2,  Total Net Debt Service Ratio b/                                   36.1            33.3           45.1           46.5
3.  Public Debt Serviqe Ratio                                          --             15.2           16.7            18.7
4.  liquidity Ratio _/                                                19.4            24.7           35.0           33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP d/                                            2.8             2.5            2.9            3.4
6.  Public Debt Seryice/GDP d/                                         -.              1.2            1.2             1.4
7   Total D0D/GDP d/                                                 16.1            16.4            17.2           19.1
C.  Terms
1,  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                    8.8           10.9            10.5           10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                        17.4           15.0            16.9           18.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (ind. NFS)                            60.2           48.1           47.1            56.5
2.  iRet.Transfer/Imports (ind. NFS)                                  27.0           25.7            19.4           22.5
3. Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                   44.9           52.6           41.3            39.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                       4.2            3_5            3.7             2.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                 5.1            5.1            5.2             4,7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                 3.2            3.3            2.6             2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                    Outstanding December 31. 1976
AXount                             Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                    1,217                                 4.7
2.  Other Multilateral                                                        557                                 2.1
3.  Governments                                                             2,862                                11.0
4,  Suppliers                                                                2,414                                9*3
5.  Bonds                                                                      289                                1.1
6,  Financial Credits                                                      18,194                                70.0
7.  Other                                                                     452                                 1.7
8.  Total M6LT Debt                                                        25,985                               100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                                 14,852                                57.1
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-80/Total DOD end of 1976                                  108.5
a/  Details of debt for end 1977 are not yet avaitable; 1977 figures quoted in text are prelimlnary estriEres -.             -
b/  Including Net Direct Investment Income.
c/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports plus reserves in excess of 3 months imports.
d/  In constant 1973 Prices. 
January 1978
--No~t Available



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-eight loans fully disbursed                                 1,091.9
677   1977  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas         Power               80.0            3.3
Marimbondo
728   1971  Centrais Eletricas do Sol          Power                 70.0           4.3
do Brasil - Salto Osorio
755   1971  Brazil                             Education              8.4           1.3
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports               45.0           19.6
786   1971  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways             46.0            4.9
797   1972  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                64.5             .3
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica               Industry             64.5           1.9
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas         Power               -60.0            .4
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement       6.7           4.4
923   1973  Furnas Centraiis Eletricas -        Power               125.0          59.7
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry         54.0          32.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0          42.6
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitaco          Water Supply         36.0          10.2
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5          22.6
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0          60.2
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0          65.7
(        1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0          92.2
1152   1975  Companhia Side-rurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          57.9
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0          18.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0          54.7
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0            11.4



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of February 28, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1206   1976  Brazil                          Develop. Bank         85.0            78.9
1207   1976  Brazil                          Feeder Roads          55.0            55.0
1249   1976  Brazil                          Agriculture           40.0            39.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            50.0            39.1
1257   1976  Companhia Paraense de           Power                 52.0            48.0
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300   1976  Eletrobras                      Power                 50.0            48.6
1302   1976  Brazil                          Nutrition             19.0            18.6
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0            37.6
1317   1976  Brazil                          Agro. Industry        83.0            83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                 82.0            72.2
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Develop.        42.0            39.9
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            64.0            62.2
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer            82.0            76.4
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452/1 1977  Brazil                          Education             32.0            32.0
1488/2 1977  Brazil                          Rural Develop.        17.0            17.0
Total                                             3,199.4 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                444.0
Total now outstanding                             2,755.4
Amount sold                           45.6
of which has been repaid            28.6           17.0
Total now held by Bank                            2,738.4
Total undisbursed                                                 1,315.2
/1   Became effective on April 5, 1978.
/2   Became effective on March 28, 1978.
/3   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, a loan of $110
million for the Sao Paulo sewage collection and treatment project was
approved on February 28, 1978 and signed on March 10, 1978, and two
loans totalling $154 million for a power distribution project in the
south and southeast and for a rural development project in Paraiba were
approved by the Executive Directors on March 28, 1978.



27 -
Page 3
S.  STATCt9NT OV tVC INIVSTHENTS (As of Februt-rv 2t. 197_ 1
Fiscal Year                            Obligor                                       Type of suni c                                             Amount in 1'5S mil ton
__                      ~~~~leauns    1'anlty    TOlA
1957            Siemens do Braol Cia. de Eletrtictidade                             etrical Equipmsnt                                       2.00      -        2.00
1955            Plinkr&ft, S.A. Calulose a P-Pal                                 pulp and Paper                                             1.20      -        1.20
1958            D...I  Plsticog do Brasil, S.A.                                 Aut_tLve Pt.t                                              0.45               0.45
1958            Villys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria a Cocreeo                                           Motor V atcles                                             2.45      _        2.45
1959            Companhia mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                      Cemnt                                                      1.20      _        1.20
1959            Chaapion Celulose. S.A.                                          Pulp                                                      400       -        4.00
1966/1968/
1972            Acos Villarea. S.A.                                              Steel                                                     J.00      1.93      9.93
1966t1969       Papal e Celulose Catarinenes,  ,.A.                              Pulp and Paper                                             3.78     3.41      7.19
1967/1972       Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria * Cenlerci
de Tartilirantes                                              tertilthere                                               2.22      3.03    11.25
1969            Petroquisica Unlao, S.A.                                         Patrechenmeala                                            5.50      2.88      8.38
1970            Poliolefinas, SA. Industria a Coesreaeo                          ptrochenitala                                             5.50      2.88 F     .38
1971            Oxiteno. S.A. Industria a Cenrcin)                               Petrochemicals                                            4.60      1.44      6.04
1971            Industria de Celulose borregaard,2S.A.                           Pulp                                                                         4.90
1972/1975       Companhia'de Cimento Nacional de Minas                           C_ nt                                                    29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Coupanhie Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSW1UA                     Steel                                                    76.96      7.50   8U.46
1973            Capital Prkat Denelopoant Fund - PlCAP                           Capital Ihrket Development                                5 .00      -        5.0
1973            Napresa de Desenvolvi.ento de Recursos
)inerais - CODLRt, S.A.                                       Nickel tliing and Refining                               26.00      4.40    30.40
1974            Industrias Villares, S.A.                                        ElevatorS nmd ladustrial Equipent                         6.00               6.00
1974            Fabrica de lecidos Tttuape, S.A.                                 Textil*a                                                 31.00       -      31.00
1975            Capuava Carbonos Industrisis Ltd.                                Carbon IlIa`                                              6.18      1.08      7.26
1975            Oxituno Nordepte, S.A.                                           Pqtrochuicala                                            10.00       -       10.00
1976            Santiata Industria - Ttxtil do Wordeate, S.A.                    Textiles                                                  6.45      1.00      7.45
1376            T*canor S.A.  - Tcxtil Cctarinense do Fordeete                   Textiles                                                 - 6.00      _        6.00
1977            ntB 5. A. Productos  4tt.lurgicos                               Iron and Aludmitu Cantinga                               20.00       -       20.00
1977            Mineracao Rtio do Wort. ,3.A.                                    Kining                                                   15.00       -       15.00
1978            Ciuctal Sidururgia S9.A:                                         Iran and Steal                                           7.0        _,30     10.0
liote1 Croas Cit     S                                                                                                  lff S196.53  35.75   332.28
Le  Cancellations, Trcinttionts   Repayeenta and sales                                                                  194.91       8.43   203.31
Tutal Cmltr scts Fev llrld by I1C                                                                                       101.62      27.32   12. 9
Total Undleburaed                                                                                                        2 .13       3.01i   31.21



-28-                          ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 36 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affact the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education Project::  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: June 30. 1978. Progress on
the construction and equipping of the project schools is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been completed. A
20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being financed by the
Government. Project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays in establishing and staffing the project unit
and because of subsequent changes in project content.
756       Santos Port Proiect:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is
completed. The inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for
the left bank rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a
loan from Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient
increases in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is
experiencing financial difficulties.
786       Railway Project - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4. 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed. Final payments on contracts are
being carried out.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Although one year behind schedule and with a
significant increase in cost, the project is now physically complete.
Final payments on equipment contracts are being completed.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1978. The Stage II project will be essentially
complete by December 1978 at a total project cost of US$970 million.
This is thirty (30) months behind the appraisal schedule and
US$593 million (157%) higher than anticipated at the time of
appraisal. Prod,uction reached 1.54 million tons of raw steel
equivalent in 1977, compared with .79 million tons in 1976 and
the 1.74 million tons forecast for 1978. COSIPA has confirmed
that the project's design capacity of 2.3 million tons of raw
steel capacity will be achieved at the completion of the produc-
tion build-up phase. With the pending completion of the
construction phase, management has placed considerable emphasis
on production and internal cash generation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 90% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. Of this cost overrun, about
60% is the result of higher than expected rates of inflation, and
40% has been caused by changes in the number (4 to 6) and the size
(250 to 270 MW) of the units to be installed, and other physical
changes.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit, road construction and COLONE working capital require-
ments and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to 130%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. During the second half of 1977, the Government
restricted the funds available for sub-loans under this project
in line with its policy of restricting credit expansion to control
inflation. However, budgetary allocations for 1978 will allow
commitments to continue at the rate envisaged in earlier forecasts.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and new towns to
house the urban portion of the population have been constructed.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses are being resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 12 months behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effectivet Date: January 9. 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now fully committed to 41 subprojects of which 29 are
under construction and 12 completed.
1067      Second Educaticin Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is proceeding reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and have yielded useful information for future
sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Proiect:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower improved in 1977, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government recently decided to deregulate most
freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, it will make payments to the
railways to meet deficits on uneconomic services which it wishes to
remain in operation. These actions should significantly improve
the borrower's financial position.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4. 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project due to changes in
forecast demand. The effect of this change on the economic justif-
ication of the project and its financial implications is presently
being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4. 1975; Effective Date: November 25. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on construc-
tion for this project during 1977 because of heavy rains in the
project area. Physical completion of the project will probably
extend to 1980, and postponement of the closing date may be required.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. Modifications in
the design of emergency and irrigation works are being studied by
CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to limiting further cost
increases. Project implementation has encountered certain opposi-
tion from the population of the project area, which disagreed with
the principles and procedures for land expropriation, settlement,
future land tenure and the structure of the proposed cooperative
system. The implementing agency CODEVASF is revising the social
strategy to be followed under the project by improving communication
and relations with the area population.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1171      Third Railwa  lProject (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project executLon is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. Although FEPASA's financial
position has imnproved, it is still not satisfactory. The Government
recently deregulated most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, the
state government has undertaken to make payments to the railways to
meet deficits on uneconomic services which it wishes to remain in
operation. These actions should assist in significantly improving
FEPASA's financial position.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date:  July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been particularly successful. Disbursements are behind the
original appraisal schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Project implemientation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences arie now resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the industry's
demand for inviestment financing; and (iii) resource constraints
of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate commitment
of the loan, tlhe Loan Agreement has been amended to permit withdrawals
up to the full estimated foreign exchange content of subprojects.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing more satisfactorily if still rather slowly.
Three sub-loans totalling US$12.6 million of Bank financing have
been approved and two more are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effectivie Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at the 21 stations. Facilities and research
programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority regions
(North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in accordance
with project goals. Staffing is in advance of project goals.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19. 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule
due to initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Disagreements, now resolved, on nutri-
tional and technical criteria have delayed BNDE participation in
the project. The INAN project unit is staffed with seven pro-
fessionals out of the ten needed. The nutrition delivery system's
field tests are proceeding reasonably well. The other components
of the project are proceeding on schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The Bank has approved sub-loans
for 75 projects in cities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 14 projects
in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants and 3 projects in
cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. Several additional sub-
projects are being reviewed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22. 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.  Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin until later in 1978. Budgetary allocations
for 1978 will allow commitments to continue at the rate envisaged
in earlier forecast.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. Procurement and construction are now underway and pro-
ceeding according to schedule, with no major problems encountered.
Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal forecast because of
delays in preparing bidding documents which resulted in delays of
contract awards. However, disbursements are expected to be on
schedule by year-end 1978.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
well. However, because of the agricultural credit restrictions
imposed by the Government during the second half of 1976 and in
early 1977, as part of its program to control inflation, credit
for this project was delayed. However, Banco do Brasil has recently
agreed to release the necessary funds, and the credit program is
expected to resume according to the agreed schedule. Due mainly to
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by land-
less producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but the Government and the participating banks have given assurances
that this would be corrected in the future. Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Prolect:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31. 1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1488      CEARA Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
September 13, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
COPESUL PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately two years.
(b) Project prepared by: Petrobras Quimica S.A.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: October 1976.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1977.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 31, 1978.
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: August 15, 1978.
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The federal government would study pricing policy for petrochemicals
and the related market development by December 31, 1979 (paras. 36
and 54).
(b) The state government would complete all infrastructure projects to
an agreed schedule and make financing available for them (para. 44).
(c) The federal government would ensure that the downstream units are
constructed in accordance with an agreed time schedule (para. 44).
(d) The federal government and the shareholders would ensure the
provision of funds as needed to complete all projects in the complex
on schedule. The federal government would also promptly issue all
the required approvals and authorizations (para. 46).
(e) COPESUL would contract a private loan, to be linked with the Bank
loan through a cross-default clause, to complete the financing
of the project (para. 47).
(f) A condition of effectiveness would be that all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement of the IDB loan (except
effectiveness of the Bank loan) had been fulfilled (para. 47).



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(g) The federal government would not take any action with respect to
the selling prices of COPESUL and the other companies in the complex
that would prevent them from making a reasonable return on their
investment (para. 49).
(h) COPESUL would maintain a minimum debt/equity ratio of 70:30 during
the construction of the Project and once it commences operation, a
minimum debt/equity ratio of 60:40, a liquidity ratio of 1.0:1.0 and
debt service coverage of 1.5 (para. 50).






I 3 R D  13334
eb'    ~ ~ ~ 4b                                                                                                                                          FERR-AR,   1978
LOCATION 6PB R A Z I L
LOCAIONOF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
PETROCHEMICAL COMPLEX
'A N ROADS
B  R A  Z I L
; -q.--,---,--  RAILROADS
RIVERS
20      g            9~~~~8820.150  
rm       =      P O DE ANEIR   0 0
C       .    <  ~~~~* RIORGAFX 000908 0AX A DL-U
73~ ~~~C
vo                                                  _                                                   49, 1'\ L t
88                      490t(                                                                                           ~
05A0 IRANCISCO
DE PAULA
08DM R5ETI R                                                                                           RMAVOS
MODNTENEGRO  
' I 123~~~~~~~~~~~ REF R
',,\\WX       l_.OALVORADA            ~
zi WuJ F1 PORTO AlEGRE
GJAIBA7                        
'Iuzdsras Vour V/ zz S d  n nl  h            f  iR8. E s i 47     I   20 0  0  SD
(                                         I             0tB, S----0-fX7 R>KEF5tM ............ \ S |               K LOMETERS



