CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1562 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(COPESUL Petrochemical Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1562 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1978, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and COPESUL - Companhia Petroquimica do Sul (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty-five
million dollars ($85,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and of the Bor-
rower's agreement to pay to the Guarantor a fee of 2.50% per
annum of the equivalent, in the currency of the Guarantor, of
the principal outstanding amount of the Loan, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor spe-
cifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that:
(a) the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out
of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures; and
(b) the funds available will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the
infrastructure described in paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to the
Loan Agreement, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to cause to be provided, such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation. realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
mTmber. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
aussets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result ia a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization


﻿- 3 -
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of
its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions to
take any action which would prevent or interfere with the perfor-
mance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action
necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform such
obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance of such
import and other permits and licenses as shall be necessary
for the acquisition and importation of the goods and services
required for the carrying out of the Petrochemical Complex,
including the Project, and for its efficient operation at full
capacity.


﻿-4-
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall cause each of the Share-
holders to perform punctually all its obligations under the
Shareholders Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall not take or permit to be
taken any action with regard to the price of the products of the
productive facilities (a) of the Borrower which may prevent the
Borrower, operating efficiently, from covering all its costs, ser-
vicing its debt, and earning a reasonable return on its invested
capital, and (b) of the plants included in the Petrochemical
Complex, other than the Project, which may prevent these plants,
operating efficiently, from generating funds sufficient to provide
the companies operating such plants with a reasonable return on
the capital invested therein.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall take such action as shall
be appropriate to ensure that construction of all plants included
in the Petrochemical Complex is carried out in accordance with the
time schedule accepted by the companies sponsoring such plants for
purposes of the certificate issued by the Conselho de Desenvolvi-
mento Industrial of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministfrio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70000 Brasilia, Brazil D.F.
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFAZ                             NR 31442
Brasilia


﻿-5-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 1sf Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


