CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1562 BR
Project Agreement
(COPESUL Petrochemical Project)
between
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1562 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1978, between STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO
SUL (hereinafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
COPESUL - Companhia Petroquimica do Sul (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the State agree to undertake certain obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is autho-
rized to undertake the obligations in this Agreement contained
under the laws of the State; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 2. The State covenants and warrants that the Petro-
chemical Complex is of paramount importance to development plans
of the State and that it will fully support the Petrochemical
Complex by cooperating with the Borrower, the Shareholders and the
other companies sponsoring the Petrochemical Complex in the
execution of the Petrochemical Complex, and by providing, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources on
its part required for construction of the infrastructure necessary
for the operation of the Petrochemical Complex.
Section 3. The State specifically undertakes to:
(a) take such action as shall be required for the prompt
issuance of such permits and licenses to be issued by it as shall
be required for the carrying out of the Petrochemical Complex;


﻿- 2 -
(b) take such action as shall be required to establish, not
later than September 30, 1978, solid, liquid and air effluent
emission standards in respect of the Petrochemical Complex;
(c) cause the Conselho de ImplantaCio do Polo Petroquimico
do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul (CONPETRO) to carry out, or cause
to be carried out, the infrastructure works included in the
Petrochemical Complex in accordance with a time schedule satis-
factory to the Bank and permit that PETROQUISA or COPESUL assist
CONPETRO in the carrying out of such works if required to complete
them in accordance with such schedule;
(d) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that
supplies of coal from private sources will be inadequate for the
full utilization of the facilities included in the Project, take
all necessary action to ensure that, as promptly as feasible,
additional supplies of coal will be made available to the Borrower
as required for said purpose; and
(e) take all necessary action to ensure that adequate
supplies of electric power will be made available to the Borrower
as required for the full utilization of the facilities included in
the Project.
Section 4. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the
performance by the State of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5. The State shall not take, or cause to be taken,
any action which would prevent or interfere with the execution of
the Petrochemical Complex or with the performance of the Bor-
rower's obligations under the Loan Agreement or with the perfor-
mance of the Shareholders' obligations under the Shareholders
Agreement.
Section 6. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the State thereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement


﻿-3-
shall terminate in accordance with its terms and the Bank shall
notify the State thereof.
Section 8. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the State:
Secretaria de Coordenaqlo e Planejamento
Rua 7 de Setembro 666, 70 andar
90000 Porto Alegre, R.S.
Brazil
Cable address:                      Telex:
PALACIO PIRATINI                   051-1123 GORS
Porto Alegre
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
Section 9. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by
Secretario de CoordenaClo e Plavejamento or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing.


﻿Section 10. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the State, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 11. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By /s/ Sinval Guazelli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


