                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank


                                                           Report No: ICR2263



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-38330 IDA-45410)

                                            ON A

                                        CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.7 MILLION

                           (US$35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            AND AN ADDITIONAL CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.7 MILLION

                            (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                        FOR AN

                                 ENERGY II PROJECT



                                    October 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2012)

                         Currency Unit = Moldovan Leu (MDL)
                                   1.00 = US$0.09
                                US$ 1.00 = MDL 11.68

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 – December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANRE    National Energy Regulatory Agency
CHP     Combined Heat and Power
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DH      District Heating
EA      Environmental Assessment
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECSEE   Energy Community of South-East Europe
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EMS     Energy Management System
FSU     Former Soviet Union
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GWh     Gigawatt hours
IAS     International Accounting Standards
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IFRS    International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF     International Monetary Fund
KWh     Kilowatt hours
ME      SE Moldelectrica (National Transmission and Dispatch company)
MEPIU   Moldova Energy Projects Implementation Unit
MoE     Ministry of Economy
MWh     Megawatt hour
NDC     National Dispatch Center
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCB     Polychlorinated Biphenyls
PLC     Power Line Carrier
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
RTU     Remote Terminal Units
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
SCADA   System Control and Data Acquisition
SIDA    Swedish International Development Agency

               Vice President:               Philippe H. Le Houérou
               Country Director:             Qimiao Fan
               Sector Manager:               Ranjit J. Lamech
               Project Team Leader:          Sandu Ghidirim
               ICR Team Leader:              Jann Masterson


                                            ii
                                                              MOLDOVA
                                                            Energy II Project




                                                                CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph



1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................................. 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................................. 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................... 39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................... 40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 55
MAP .............................................................................................................................................. 56



                                                                        iii
A. Basic Information
Country:                Moldova                   Project Name:             Energy 2 Project
Project ID:             P040558                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38330,IDA-45410
ICR Date:               10/30/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            MOLDOVA
Original Total
                        XDR 25.70M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 32.17M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 32.17M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Moldova Energy Projects Implementation Unit (MEPIU)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         10/07/1999    Effectiveness:              03/02/2004           03/02/2004
                                                                                       06/29/2004
                                                                                       10/08/2007
Appraisal:              05/13/2002    Restructuring(s):                                01/29/2009
                                                                                       10/13/2009
                                                                                       12/26/2011
Approval:               11/25/2003    Mid-term Review:            03/31/2006           04/21/2006
                                      Closing:                    04/30/2008           04/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:                  Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:

                                                 iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                 Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                             Yes                                                Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                          Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                             None
(Yes/No):                                             (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                         10                      10
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                       10                      30
General education sector                                                   5                      5
Health                                                                     5                      5
Power                                                                     70                      50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                             13                     13
Infrastructure services for private sector development                     25                     25
Pollution management and environmental health                              13                     13
Regulation and competition policy                                          24                     24
Urban services and housing for the poor                                    25                     25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou                 Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Qimiao Fan                             Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:              Ranjit J. Lamech                       Hossein Razavi
Project Team Leader:         Sandu Ghidirim                         Vladislav Vucetic
ICR Team Leader:             Peggy Janice Masterson
ICR Primary Author:          Peggy Janice Masterson




                                                     v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the security and reliability of the electricity transmission system and wholesale
electricity supply and, therefore, facilitate unimpeded commercial operation of the power system.
Improve the availability, quality, and efficiency of heating in selected priority public buildings.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                   approval                            Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                 documents)                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduce outage rates of Moldelectrica transmission lines and substations by 35%
Value                                                                               59% reduction (103
                                             Reduce outage rates
quantitative or   253 hours of outages                                              hours of outages in
                                             by 35%
Qualitative)                                                                        2011)
Date achieved     12/31/2002                 04/30/2012                             04/30/2012
Comments
                  Target exceeded.
(incl. %
                  Based on data from Moldelectrica's Annual Report for 2011.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Reduce non-technical losses in transmission and distribution by 75%
Value                                                                               100% reduction
                  Non-technical losses in     Non-technical losses
quantitative or                                                                     (Non-technical losses
                  2002 were 11%               reduced by 75%
Qualitative)                                                                        for 2011 were 0%)
Date achieved     12/31/2002                  04/30/2012                            04/30/2012
Comments
                  Target exceeded.
(incl. %
                  (Information from Moldelectrica's 2011 Annual Report.)
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Reduce unserved energy by 200 MWh per year
Value                                       Reduce unserved
                  Unserved energy of about                                          101.2 MWh unserved
quantitative or                             energy by 200 MWh
                  400 MWh                                                           energy in 2011.
Qualitative)                                per year.
Date achieved     12/31/2002                04/30/2012                              04/30/2012
Comments
                  Target partially achieved, with unserved energy substantially reduced. (Information
(incl. %
                  from Moldelectrica's 2011 Annual Report.)
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Reduce technical losses of Moldelectrica by 5%
Value
                  138.9 GWh of technical      Reduce technical                      5.65% re ductiion
quantitative or
                  losses in 2002              losses by 5%                          (131.04 GWh)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2002                  04/30/2012                            04/30/2012
Comments
                  Target achieved. (information from Moldelectrica's 2011 Annual Report)
(incl. %

                                                    vi
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Increase number of buildings with heating throughout the winter season
                                                                                   252 buildings in total
                                                                                   (69 institutions and
                                                                                   43 residential
                                                                                   buildings) including
                                                                                   schools, hospitals,
                                                                  120 days of
Value             80 institutions/buildings   120 days of heating                  kindergartens and
                                                                  heating
quantitative or   with heating availability   availability in 170                  orphanages have
                                                                  availability in
Qualitative)      from 0-30 days per year     buildings                            heating and domestic
                                                                  217 buildings
                                                                                   hot water (DHW)
                                                                                   availability
                                                                                   throughout the entire
                                                                                   year (more than 120
                                                                                   days/year)
Date achieved     12/31/2002                  04/30/2012          04/30/2012       04/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)
                  Number of students and teachers who benefit from educational facilities heated 120
Indicator 6 :
                  days or more during winter.
                                              The original
                                              indicator measured
                                              only the number of 27,485 teachers
                                              buildings, not the and students
                                              number of           (14,547         27,485 teachers and
Value
                  0 (schools heated for 0-30 beneficiaries.       achieved under students benefiting
quantitative or
                  days per year)              During              original Credit from heating and
Qualitative)
                                              implementation      plus 12,938     DWH
                                              MEPIU began to      planned under
                                              also monitor the    the AF)
                                              number of
                                              beneficiaries
Date achieved     12/31/2002                  04/30/2012          04/30/2012      04/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved.
achievement)
                  Number of inpatients, medical staff and outpatients benefitting from facilities heated
Indicator 7 :
                  120 days or more during winter.
                                                                    1,228,000
                                                                    inpatients, staff
                                                                    (including the 1,299,993 patients,
                                                The original target
                  0 (hospitals heated from 0-                       actual number outpatients, and staff
Value                                           measured only
                  30 days per year) or with                         of beneficiaries benefiting from
quantitative or                                 number of buildings
                  space heaters in only certain                     from the          facilities with
Qualitative)                                    not number of
                  areas of the hospitals                            original credit improved heating and
                                                beneficiaries
                                                                    and target from hot water
                                                                    the Additional
                                                                    financing)


                                                   vii
Date achieved     12/31/2002                  04/30/2012              04/30/2012      04/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                  Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                     approval                         Completion or
                                                                       Values
                                                   documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Installation of meters and one Metering Management System
                                               400 meters installed
Value                                                                              580 meters installed
                                               plus one Metering
(quantitative     Obsolete meters                                                  and one Metering
                                               Management
or Qualitative)                                                                    Management System.
                                               System
Date achieved     12/31/2002                   04/30/2012                          04/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded and installation was completed in June 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Replacement of transmission substation equipment
                                                53 high voltage                    47 high voltage
Value
                  Equipment obsolete and        circuit breakers                   circuit breakers
(quantitative
                  prone to failure              replaced at 3 major                replaced at 4 major
or Qualitative)
                                                substations                        substations
Date achieved     12/31/2002                    04/30/2012                         04/30/2012
Comments          Target achieved in June 2010 with IDA and Moldelectrica financing. Only 47 circuit
(incl. %          breakers were procured under the project because Moldelectrica had already installed
achievement)      circuit breakers using its own funds.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                   Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                              IP
          Archived                                                                      (USD millions)
  1      12/12/2003           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                       0.00
  2      01/23/2004           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                       0.00
  3      06/29/2004           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                       1.38
  4      12/13/2004          Unsatisfactory                    Satisfactory                       1.74
  5      05/18/2005       Moderately Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       3.51
  6      11/15/2005       Moderately Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       6.10
  7      06/27/2006       Moderately Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       9.28
  8      06/29/2007           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      16.57
  9      06/30/2008           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      23.02
  10     06/25/2009           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      28.41
  11     03/03/2010           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      35.59
  12     11/17/2010           Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory               41.83
  13     11/17/2010           Satisfactory                 Moderately Satisfactory               41.83

                                                    viii
 14     06/27/2011     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory         43.81
 15     01/11/2012     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory         45.92
 16     04/25/2012         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory          46.15


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring             Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           At the request of the Borrower,
                                                           modify disbursement percentages
                                                           to reflect the standard
  06/29/2004        N         S       S           1.38     disbursement percentages for
                                                           Moldova as stated in the
                                                           Association's letter of December
                                                           19, 2003.
                                                           To allow completion of
                                                           SCADA/EMS/Telecommunication
  10/08/2007        N         S       S          19.33
                                                           s contract, the Closing Date was
                                                           extended to December 31, 2009.
                                                           Additional Financing to scale-up
                                                           the heating component of the
                                                           Energy II Project. No change to
                                                           the Project Development
  01/29/2009        N         S       S          25.05     Objectives. The new closing date
                                                           was December 31, 2011. Two new
                                                           monitoring indicators were added
                                                           to measure the number of
                                                           beneficiaries
                                                           To allow completion of the
                                                           SCADA/EMS/Telecommunication
  10/13/2009        N         S       S          29.35     s contract, the Closing Date of the
                                                           original Credit was extended to
                                                           December 31, 2011.
                                                           To allow completion of final
                                                           system testing and operational
                                                           acceptance of
  12/26/2011        N        MS      MU          44.95
                                                           SCADA/Telecommunications
                                                           systems, the Closing Date was
                                                           extended to April 30, 2012.




                                                 ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country background. At appraisal in 2002, Moldova was (and still is) poorly endowed with
commercially exploitable energy resources and had to rely almost entirely on imported oil
products, gas, electricity and coal to cover its energy needs. Moldova consumed about 0.8-1.2
billion cubic meters of gas annually, excluding Transnistria 1, all imported from Russia at a net
price of US$60 per thousand cubic meters. Annual consumption of oil products was about
350,000-400,000 tons (all imported), and of electricity about 3-3.5 billion kWh, of which only
20-25% was generated by the plants on the right bank of the Nistru River, the rest being
imported from Ukraine and Romania and generated in Transnistria. Retail gas tariffs in Moldova
were about US$2.1 per billion Joules. Electricity tariffs were among the highest in the Former
Soviet Union: 4.5-5 US cents per kWh for the northern parts of the country and 5-5.5 US cents
per kWh for the remaining territory served by a private distribution operator 2.
Moldova’s strategic choices regarding the mix of energy imports, technological options for
electricity generation, heating and energy usage, physical infrastructure for energy delivery and
industrial structure of the energy sector were developed during the Soviet era and driven by
Soviet political considerations and economic development objectives, in which inexpensive
energy and central planning were major elements. This had led to some sub-optimal choices,
both in the country’s energy infrastructure – such as poor electricity connections with both FSU
and non-FSU countries, development of uneconomic centralized district heating systems, energy
intensive technologies and construction standards, inadequate energy metering, etc. – and energy
sector governance and organization.
Moldova responded slowly to the rapidly increasing prices of energy imports in the post-
independence period. The Government, acting simultaneously as policy maker, regulator, owner
and utility manager, was slow to pass on the increase to energy consumers and was not able to
pay the difference between the supply costs and consumer tariffs. This resulted in a large
energy-related quasi-fiscal deficit (estimated to be at about 5% of GDP in 1998 and 1999),
largely financed through asset consumption and accumulation of debt (mainly in the form of
payment arrears). As a result, Moldova accumulated large external debts, while postponing
maintenance of and investments in energy infrastructure. In parallel, financial discipline in the
sector weakened, quality of management deteriorated, and corruption became widespread. The
energy companies had increasing difficulty to maintain supply, and shortages of electricity and
gas supply developed. The sector, forced to subsidize consumers and suffering from theft and
mismanagement, was rapidly deteriorating, accelerating the economic decline.
Energy Sector Reforms during 1997-2002. To avert the escalating energy crisis in the mid-
1990s, Moldova embarked on an ambitious set of reforms in the energy sector 3, whose main


1 Transnistria (the breakaway region on the left bank of the Nistru River) covers about 12% of Moldova’s territory, with a similar share of
population. The Transnistrian authorities declared independence in 1994, but it has neither been recognized internationally, nor by the Moldovan
government. The region is of high economic importance, as it straddles routes to Ukraine (and on to Russia) as well as significant energy
transport infrastructure – electricity transmission lines and gas transport pipelines. Some of the largest industrial facilities in Moldova, including
the largest power plant with an installed capacity of 2.5 GW, are located in Transnistria.
2 About 2/3 of power distribution in Moldova was privatized in 2000.
3
   The main elements of the reforms were: (a) development of a new, market- oriented legal framework; (b) establishment of an independent
energy regulatory agency (ANRE) in 1997, adjusting the level and the structure of tariffs; (c) sector unbundling and restructuring, and
corporatization of the vertically integrated electricity monopoly into 5 distribution companies, 4 generation companies, and creation of S.E.




                                                                          1
objective was the commercialization of energy supply, accompanied by appropriate social
policies implemented through fiscal instruments to protect the most vulnerable groups. These
achievements put the energy sector in Moldova at the forefront of energy sector reforms among
the FSU countries and started to show important benefits, including: increased payment
collections, improved reliability of energy supply, decreased import prices of electricity to the
privatized companies, and reduction of the quasi-fiscal deficit.
Sectoral Issues. The main sectoral issues at appraisal, as identified also in the government’s
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (December 2000), were:
    • Electricity transmission, dispatch and metering. The obsolescence and physical
    deterioration of the electricity transmission and dispatch equipment represented a risk for
    domestic consumers and undermined the country’s energy security and its potential role in
    cross-border energy trade.
    • High commercial (billing) losses in electricity distribution. Total losses in the electricity
    distribution network in 2002 were between 25 and 35 percent.
    • Deterioration of heating services. Municipal district heating services were either defunct
    or bankrupt, and even if functioning, provided poor quality services. District heating was
    inefficient and therefore expensive and unaffordable at Moldova’s income level, which also
    threatened the economic viability of the CHP plants. Moreover, many schools, hospitals and
    other public buildings had little or no heat during the winter months.
    • Historic debts of the energy sector. Although most of the historic debt of the electricity
    sector had been transferred out of the accounts of the operating companies and consolidated
    on the books of Moldtranselectro 4, the debt could continue to burden the sector with the risk
    of possible supply interruption or request for assets.
    • Resistance of vested interests. Sector reforms changed the responsibilities and increased
    transparency in contractual relationships and accounting, which hurt vested interests and
    triggered fierce resistance from these groups, particularly against Union Fenosa, which
    privatized 2/3 of the distribution network.
The government’s strategy proposed the following actions to resolve the issues: upgrade
electricity transmission, dispatch and metering; reduce commercial (billing) losses in electricity
distribution by privatizing state-owned distribution companies; improve heating services by
facilitating the development of commercial decentralized heating systems, where economically
feasible and justifiable; restructure historic debts of the energy sector; implement measures to
reduce corruption, influence of vested interests and enhance energy sector reforms; and
implement adequate social protection, aiming at supporting economic and social development
and enhancing energy security, but reducing the energy intensity of the economy.
The Energy II Project was designed to address the following issues:
   • The obsolescence and disrepair in electricity transmission and dispatch networks;



Moldelectrica, the national transmission and dispatch company; (d) changing electricity trading rules so that distribution companies were solely
responsible for contracting directly with importers and domestic generators for sufficient amounts of electricity to supply their customers; (e) debt
restructuring of the historic debts of the electricity sector; (g) reducing and re-targeting subsidies for energy consumption; (h) privatization of
electricity distribution companies; and (i) divestiture of the gas industry.
4
  As a result of the reorganization of the power sector, by the decree no. 1000 of GoM dated October 5, 2000, the former state company
Moldtranselectro (MTE) was restructured so that a new transmission and dispatch company, Moldelectrica (ME), was created and all operational
assets and functions related to transmission and dispatch - but not historic debts -- were transferred from MTE to ME. MTE remained a 'shell'
company, holding the sector’s historic debts (accounts payable and accounts receivable), without any involvement in sector operations.




                                                                         2
     • Improvements in heating of public buildings; and
     • Technical assistance for debt restructuring, development of decentralized heating
       and strengthening and continuation of electricity sector reforms, including sector
       regulation.
Rationale for Bank Involvement. The World Bank Group had supported the energy sector
reform in Moldova through a combination of investment, adjustment, technical assistance, and
guarantee operations, and was well placed to continue the energy sector reform dialogue and take
the lead in financing priority investments in the electricity transmission network and assist in the
transition to an energy efficient decentralized heating.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objectives of the project were to:
(i)     improve the security and reliability of the electricity transmission system and wholesale
electricity supply, and therefore, facilitate unimpeded commercial operation of the power system,
both domestically and internationally; and
(ii)    Improve the availability, quality, and efficiency of heating in selected priority public
buildings (schools, hospitals, and residential buildings for disabled and other vulnerable
groups). 5

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
•       The direct beneficiary of the project was ME. However, the main benefits of the
electricity component were system-wide and, therefore, would accrue to all consumers, including
the poor.
•       The main benefits of the heating component would accrue to the public agencies
operating the buildings included in the project and to the users of the buildings (schools and
hospitals) providing important social public services and, therefore, have an important social
impact.

1.5 Original Components
The project comprised four components:
    • Electricity system upgrade;
    • Heating supply 6 and efficiency improvement;
    • Technical assistance for project implementation and energy sector reforms; and
    • Project management and administration (incremental operating costs).




5
  The wording in the PAD and in the Development Credit Agreement differ slightly but have the same general meaning. The wording from the
DCA referred only to “selected buildings?. For the purposes of the ICR, the wording from the PAD has been used as it is more specific.
6
  Throughout the ICR the author has used the terminology from the PAD and the terminology used throughout project implementation “heating
component?; however, if the project were being appraised today, this component would most likely have been called “energy efficiency?.




                                                                    3
Component A: Electricity system upgrade (US$27.79 million)
  a) Improvement of metering in the electricity transmission network. This component
     included installation of energy meters at all interconnecting points of the 110-400 kV
     transmission system network to enable metering and recording of active and reactive
     electricity flows in the wholesale electricity market.
  b) Rehabilitation and upgrade of power system dispatch. This component included
     installation of the necessary hardware and software to enable real time acquisition of
     operational information from the main facilities (power stations and transmission
     substations), analysis and monitoring of the system status at the National Dispatch
     Center, and control and dispatch of the power plants, load centers and the transmission
     system to maintain a reliable, secure and economic operation and facilitate financial
     settlements in the wholesale electricity market. The main elements included Remote
     Terminal Units (RTU) and the corresponding local data acquisition equipment at the
     power plants and transmission substations, the System Control and Data Acquisition
     (SCADA) system and the Energy Management System (EMS).
  c) Rehabilitation and upgrade of system telecommunications. This component included
     installation of the necessary communications equipment (fiber optics, power line carrier
     systems-PLC, and radio systems), which would serve the communications needs of
     metering and dispatch.
  d) Priority rehabilitation of the transmission network, including environmental upgrades.
     This component covered the replacement and repair of high voltage transmission line
     pylons and the most urgently needed rehabilitation measures in selected high-voltage
     substations 7. Depending on the outcome of the PCB follow-up study (Component C),
     this component could include physical mitigation measures for appropriate protection of
     PCB-containing condenser batteries, and for their disposal to be implemented when
     replacement of the batteries would be required. Actual removal of the capacitors or
     renewal of the old ones was not envisaged under the project.

Component B: Heating Supply and Efficiency Improvement (US$9.16 million)
This component included improvements in the supply and distribution of heat and demand-side
measures for heat and hot water consumption in selected public buildings (kindergartens, schools,
hospitals, and residential buildings for disabled and other vulnerable groups) in 8 municipalities 8
and large health care centers in Chisinau under the central Ministries of Health and Education.
The list included approximately 50 schools and kindergartens with more than 15,000 pupils and
25 hospitals and clinics with more than 4,000 beds. The Ministry of Energy expressed strong
interest in including in the project some residential apartment buildings located close to the
selected public buildings and thereby increasing the social impact.

Component C: Technical Assistance for Project Implementation and Energy Sector
Reforms (US$1.60 million)




7
  Station batteries for 11 substations, 330 kV equipment for the Chisinau, Straseni and Balti substations and a number of 110 kV circuit breakers
for various substations
8
  The 8 municipalities are Cantemir, Chisinau, Falesti, Floresti, Ialoveni, Soroca, Straseni, and Ungheni)




                                                                        4
This component included the following activities: (i) project implementation – consultant
services for procurement and project management for the electricity and heating components and
audit of the project and ME’s financial statements; (ii) PCB follow-up study (electricity system);
(iii) assistance for sector reforms to improve the institutional and regulatory framework in the
energy sector, energy trade, privatization, and debt restructuring.

Component D: Project Management and Administration (US$1.38 million)
This component included the incremental costs associated with the establishment and operation
of a Project Implementation Unit, created by project beneficiaries specifically for
implementation of this project.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
There were no significant changes in project design during implementation.
An amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was approved by the Country
Director on June 29, 2004, to modify the disbursement percentages in the DCA to align them
with the standard disbursement percentages for Moldova, as stated in the Country Director’s
letter of December 19, 2003.
The Closing Date was extended from April 30, 2008 to December 31, 2009, to allow completion
of the SCADA/EMS/Telecommunications contract.
An additional credit (Credit No. 4541-MD) of SDR 6.7 million (US$10 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on January 29, 2009, to scale up the heating
component and to maximize the social impact of the project. The Project Development
Objective was not changed. The Closing Date for the additional credit was set for December 31,
2011 9.
On October 13, 2009, the Closing Date of the original Credit (Credit 3833-MD) was extended to
December 31, 2011, to allow additional time for completion of the SCADA/Telecommunications
contract and align the Closing Date with that of additional Credit 4541-MD.
On December 20, 2011, the Closing Date of the original Credit was extended for the third time to
April 30, 2012 to allow completion of the final system testing and operational acceptance of the
SCADA/Telecommunications equipment.
The additional Credit No. 4541-MD closed as scheduled on December 31, 2011, and the
remaining balance of SDR 24.23 was cancelled on April 30, 2012.
The original Credit No. 3833-MD closed on April 30, 2012, and the remaining balance of
SDR228,576.65 was cancelled on August 31, 2012.




9
  The Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) also provided additional financing to scale-up the technical assistance for
the heating component.




                                                                      5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project had a very long preparation time (about 4 years). A Japan PHRD Grant (TF025294)
was used to finance: (a) project preparation, including a feasibility study for the electricity
component, establishment of the Project Preparation Unit, and audits of the Grant; (b)
institutional strengthening, including development of a business plan and financial analysis of
ME and debt restructuring plan of Moldtranselectro, and revaluation of ME’s assets and tariff
recalculations based on the revalued assets.
A SIDA parallel financing grant for project preparation financed a study on “Strategic Heating
Options for Moldova? and a second SIDA grant financed the preparation of technical
specifications and bidding documents for the supply and installation of boilers and pipes in a
pilot heating activity in the municipality of Ungheni. A Project Preparation Facility advance (Q-
191-0-MD) financed consulting services and goods for project preparation, including technical
specifications and bidding documents for the electricity system upgrade, development and
installation of a financial management system for the project, operating costs for the PIU and the
pilot activity of supply and installation of boilers and pipes in the municipality of Ungheni.
Soundness of the Background Analysis. Sufficient background diagnostic work (feasibility
studies, social assessments, financial analysis, strategic heating study, etc.) had been done prior
and during the design of the project under the various grants for project preparation. Lessons
learned in the implementation of other power sector projects in the region, and in the earlier
Energy Project (Ln. 4020-MD) in Moldova, were taken into account, namely the two closely
inter-related issues of sector governance and financial performance of the electricity companies.
Two structural adjustment loans and two structural adjustment credits had supported the
government in implementation of energy sector reforms. The project was designed to
complement these achievements with the needed investment in the electricity wholesale trading
infrastructure and in energy efficiency improvements, combined with sector reform actions.
The sequencing of policy and investment actions was designed to maximize their combined
effect on the sector’s financial position and sustainability of sector reforms. The synergy
between policy dialogue and investments included in the project design has proven adequate
especially when the SAC-III operation failed. The required reform actions could have been
otherwise protracted or backtracked and thereby this could have undermined the sustainability of
the project and the achievement of development objectives 10. Although this had prolonged the
preparation and delayed project approval, proper resolution of these issues within the policy
dialogue contributed to increased transparency and better governance, as well as to the financial
viability of the sector.
Assessment of the Project Design. The project was consistent with all three objectives of the
Country Assistance Strategy discussed at the Board on June 20, 2002. It would promote
macroeconomic sustainability by: (i) helping stem the accumulation of new public debt related


10
   During project preparation, the government contested the results of privatization and attempted to block the independence of the energy
regulator.




                                                                        6
to electricity sector enterprises, (ii) promoting economic growth by improving the reliability of
electricity supply to the economy, and (iii) helping restructure the outstanding debt in the energy
sector. The project would support private sector development through better supply of electricity
to private industry and by supporting privatization of major electricity companies. It would also
support public sector reform by improving energy efficiency in selected public buildings,
reinforcing the autonomy of ANRE, and encouraging the Government to maintain well-targeted
and fiscally affordable subsidies for energy consumption and control consumption of budget
entities. The project design was simple and well focused, with clear objectives and indicators
related to its components.
Most of the staff of the Moldova Energy Projects Implementation Unit (MEPIU) had worked on
the first Energy Project and had already acquired considerable project implementation
experience, which was further enhanced by managing the various grants for project preparation.
SIDA parallel financing was instrumental in both preparation and implementation of the heating
component.
Government Commitment. Government commitment to the project was substantial, as evidenced
by the following actions:
   • Implementation of legal, regulatory and structural reforms that took place in the energy
     sector for several years prior to the project;
   • Completion of technical and financial studies for the project;
   • Unbundling of the sector and creation of a separate transmission and dispatch company;
   • Separation of historic debts from the transmission and dispatch company and other
     companies operating the power system, and initiation of efforts to compile a detailed
     inventory of the debts and to audit and restructure them;
   • Early establishment of a Project Implementation Unit;
   • Using a PPF advance from the Credit to finance project preparation activities, including
     a pilot project for decentralization of heating in public buildings; and
   • Increasing tariffs for ME.
    Participatory Approach
   • Electricity Component. Consultations with ME and national government officials
      responsible for the energy sector were an integral part of project preparation. Given the
      nationwide character of the indirect beneficiaries, the participatory approach was handled
      by conducting a social assessment and information disclosure and a public consultation
      organized by the Ministry of Energy on May 15, 2001, and attended by 45 representatives
      of various NGOs, the media, municipalities and ministries.
   • Heating Component. A nationwide household survey, focus groups and in-depth
      interviews were conducted to elicit input from various social groups on energy-related
      problems, focusing on heating and energy efficiency options, their affordability and the
      potential participation of households and home owners associations in implementing
      options considered under the heating component.
The emerged social factors underscored the conclusions of the poor economic justification and
questionable affordability of wide-scale refurbishment of most DH networks in Moldova. These
were the fundamental reasons underlying the focus of the heating component on priority energy
efficiency improvements in public buildings, which provided services to all members of the




                                                7
population, including some, such as kindergartens and schools that were                     likely
disproportionately used by the poor, and thus maximize the social impact of the project.
Risk Assessment. The overall risk was assessed as Substantial; most of the risks rated
substantial related to the progress of the overall sector reforms, and the risk of project
implementation delays was assessed as Moderate. Adequate risk mitigation measures were
proposed for most of the risks. The only risk that was not adequately assessed was the risk of
project implementation delays. The project team underestimated the complexity and the time
required for installation of a modern SCADA system. However, this situation has been faced in
almost every project in the ECA region with a SCADA component, but was not obvious at the
time of project preparation. Technical assistance was provided to assist with the preparation of
technical specifications and supervision of the contract, but ME was unable to extend the
contract when the consulting firm was sanctioned.
The Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment 7 (QEA7) for FY 2004-2005 by QAG rated quality of
design as Satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
The PPF pilot activity at Ungheni included construction of block boiler plants for heat supply to
both public institutions and residential buildings. The Ungheni pilot offered useful experience
for preparation and implementation of the heating component subprojects, as well as the
potential outcomes. The cost of heating per square meter of residential area, supplied from the
new systems during the 2002-2003 heating season was MDL 6.53, compared to MDL 12-14
under the old system supplied by an oversized mazut boiler plant, and the payment level under
the new system was about 90 percent, compared to 30 percent in 1999 – the last year when the
old plant was operating. The pilot demonstrated that in small towns in Moldova decentralization
of old centralized heating systems that are no longer functioning is a viable solution for heating
supply, provided that residents are willing to pay for the service.
The mid-term review in April 2006 contributed to the successful outcome of the project by
recommending additional policy reform actions:
   a) To improve institutional capacity in the government and ANRE for contingency planning
      and rapid response to an uncertain evolution of energy prices in the medium-term,
      including improved targeting and adequate funding for the safety net protecting the poor;
   b) To develop a comprehensive energy efficiency program and facilitate investments in
      energy efficiency, energy savings and alternative (renewable) energy resources;
   c) To return Termocom and CHPs to financial stability;
   d) To develop and adopt an action plan for legal and regulatory compliance of Moldova’s
      electricity and gas markets with the ECSEE Treaty by the end of 2006;
   e) To adopt a metering code and to implement a commercial metering system;
   f) To use the recently approved Grant for the Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs)
      Stockpiles Management and Destruction Project for complete removal and destruction of
      decommissioned capacitors containing PCBs.
The success of the heating component helped leverage additional support to the Energy Sector
from SIDA through: (i) TA support for the heating sub-projects under the Energy II Project; (ii)
pilot project for individual heating substations and improvement of heat distribution in
Termocom, accompanied by TA support for restructuring and reorganization of Termocom; (iii)




                                                8
TA support to ANRE; and (iv) renewable energy (bio-mass) pilot project and heat distribution
system in Cornesti. It was also agreed that MEPIU would be the focal point for the preparation
and implementation of SIDA’s energy program. The financial situation and performance of ME
were reviewed and a new revaluation of ME assets was recommended, with a subsequent
adjustment of ME’s tariffs. The Bank team agreed to consider a possible request for additional
financing for the heating component in 2007, building on the success of the heating component.
Project implementation for most of the electricity component and the entire heating component
was completed on schedule, except for the SCADA/Telecommunications contract, which
required three closing date extensions.
Project at Risk Status. The project was considered at risk in three ISRs. In the ISR of
December 2004, the PDO rating was downgraded to Unsatisfactory, due to the decline in
reliability of electricity supply as a result of the emergence of a state-owned electricity trader
which acted as the single buyer of electricity imports and the monopoly (re)exporter from
Moldova to Romania, and privatization of the MGRES power plant in Transnistria, which was
the main supplier of electricity to power distribution companies. This created upward pressure
on the price of electricity and exposed weaknesses in the energy regulatory agency 11.
Due to delays in implementation of SCADA/Telecommunications contract, in June 2011 the
achievement of PDO was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory and the Implementation
Progress to Moderately Unsatisfactory. The team agreed with the government and ME on an
Action Plan to address the delays and regular bi-monthly progress monitoring meetings were
carried out, which contributed to positive progress in the physical completion of the project. A
project restructuring to extend the closing date for four additional months to April 30, 2012
allowed the completion of the final testing of the system. The installation was thereby completed
in December 2011, and the systems tested and commissioned from January to April 2012, and
operating satisfactorily, which allowed upgrading the project ratings to S and MS, respectively.
Parallel financing from Sweden (SIDA). The parallel financing from SIDA both for the
original credit as well as for the Additional Financing was instrumental in ensuring the success
of the heating component. In addition, SIDA financed technical assistance for ME to update its
asset revaluation and to prepare the IFRS-based accounting database.
IDA Additional Financing helped to maximize the social impact of the Project. The Bank
allocated in 2009 the Additional Financing in response to a government request to increase the
targets of the heating component and thus to maximize the social impact. The AF not only
expanded the geographical coverage and the social benefits of the project to a larger number of
people, but it also allowed replication of energy efficiency investments in the residential sector.
Thus, by exceeding the original social targets and by producing additional unintended outcomes,
the Additional Financing has maximized the social impact of the project. It also helped leverage
additional funding from SIDA for the Mother and Child Center in Chisinau 12.
Energy Sector Issues. Because of the resistance of vested interests to some of the energy sector
reforms and failure of the SAC-III operation described above, a covenant was added to the
Development Credit Agreement, i.e.:



11
     MGRES has undergone repeated privatizations and is now owned by Inter RAO UES of Russia.
12
     A large national health care facility for mothers and children, including newborn.




                                                                     9
       “The Borrower shall maintain a legal, regulatory, policy and institutional framework for
       the energy sector conducive to efficient commercial operation, attracting private
       investments and ensuring reliable and affordable energy services.?
Compliance with this covenant was closely monitored throughout project implementation and at
times the covenant was not complied with or only partially complied with, but in the latter stages
of the project the Borrower was in full compliance with this covenant. The covenant enabled the
IDA team to monitor developments in the energy sector that were not directly part of the project,
such as regulatory agency performance and performance of the district heating sector, and to
locate funding from other donors to carry out related studies.
Following intensive sector dialogue, a new Energy Law was approved in December 2009, and a
national Energy Efficiency Program was approved in November 2011.
The Bank issued in 2009 a sector policy note on corporate and financial restructuring of the
District Heating sector in Chisinau in response to a request by the Government of Moldova.
Following the recommendations provided in the policy note, the government transferred the
responsibility to approve the DH tariffs to ANRE. A more detailed report by consultants
specifically on financial and corporate restructuring to address the issues of accumulated debt
stock and corporate sustainability of Termocom and CHPs was delivered to the government in
October 2011. Based on the recommendations provided in the report, the government has issued
a cabinet decision in November 2011 on the following restructuring plan: (i) a vertical
integration of Termocom and CHP-1 and CHP-2, and (ii) preparation of a debt restructuring plan
with Moldovagaz.
The team is continuing support through a TA assistance project financed by SIDA and an
investment project to address the priority investments in the DH sector and to support the
government in preparing a debt restructuring program and finance repayment of debt, as well as
through overall sector policy dialogue.
Electricity Component. The electricity component provided:
   • Metering for reliable measurement of energy flows between generating plants and
       imports and distribution companies, exports and eligible consumers, and allowed
       commercial transactions to be properly accounted and supported;
   • A new SCADA system to provide real time data from substations and to facilitate control
       of the system in order to ensure that dispatch is consistent with commercial contracts.
       This allows safe, reliable and economic operation of the power transmission network;
   • The new telecommunication system, which has enough channels to support the SCADA
       system;
   • Priority upgrades of the most critically needed equipment in selected high voltage
       transmission substations.
Heating Component. The heating component was implemented in 17 administrative districts
(“rayons?) out of 32 and in the municipalities of Chisinau and Balti and provided:
    • New energy efficient gas fired boiler plants;
    • Heat transmission from the boiler plants to the buildings to reduce losses;
    • Building level automated individual heating substations for better control;
    • Internal heating systems for reduced losses and improved control;




                                               10
     •     External district heating distribution systems to optimize the heat supplied by the DH
           system; 13
     •     Individual district heating substations for connection of the internal heating systems and
           DHW preparation; and
     •     External and internal domestic cold and hot water and sewerage systems.

The key factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project were:
   • Consistent government commitment to the project, during both preparation and
      implementation, despite several changes in the government.
   • Willingness, insistence and enthusiasm of local authorities in implementing the heating
      component.
   • Parallel financing from Sweden (SIDA), beginning during project identification and
      preparation and continuing throughout project implementation.
   • An effective, efficient and experienced Project Implementation Unit (MEPIU).
   • Continuous field-based supervision and presence of TTL in the field later in the project
      helped the implementing agency to perform well by ensuring a permanent and close
      contact between the Bank team and the implementing agency, as well as close monitoring,
      which allowed to undertake prompt corrective measures, where needed.
   • The use of strict selection criteria for the institutions included in the heating component 14.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Appropriate monitoring indicators were selected that were directly relevant to the achievement of
the Project Development Objectives and to the project components. The indicators were
quantifiable, relevant and measurable. However, the PAD results framework at appraisal did not
include baseline indicators or intermediate outcome indicators. Baselines were added to the ISR
during project implementation, and MEPIU hired an M&E Specialist. The original indicator for
the heating component monitored only the number of buildings with improved heat and/or hot
water. During project implementation the Bank team requested MEPIU to begin to monitor also
the number of students and teachers and the number of inpatients, outpatients, and medical staff
benefiting from improved heating and hot water. Although these indicators had in fact already
been monitored for some time during project implementation, they were formally added to
project M&E with the approval of Additional Financing to better quantify the social impact.
ME provided annual reports on its operation. MEPIU provided quarterly progress reports that
contained the data provided by beneficiaries of the heating component, consultants and ME. ME
will continue to monitor its operating statistics now that the project has ended, and MEPIU has
acquired considerable knowledge of M&E and recognizes the importance of collecting the
baseline data from the local beneficiaries.


13
   For the large health care facilities in Chisinau connection to the centralized DH system was maintained, as DH is considered as most
economical and environmentally friendly supply of heat in cities of the size of Chisinau, which has been identified by the 2000 Strategic Heating
Options Study (funded by SIDA), as well as by the Government’s Energy Sector strategy 2020 and the recent DH restructuring Concept (which is
currently being updated).
14
   These included: (a) social character (hospitals, schools, kindergartens, orphanages, etc.); (b) expected continued operation of the institutions;
(c) form of ownership; (d) number of people who would benefit from improvement of treatment or study conditions; (e) existence of possibilities
to correlate actions of the project with other actions planned by the Government or local authorities; (f) geographic location of the institution; (g)
willingness of the municipalities to co-finance and be party to an on-lending arrangement between the Ministry of Finance, Rayon and
Municipality for the estimated amount of the loan; (h) positive impact of the proposed projects on budgets and ability to assume debt service
obligations




                                                                         11
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Compliance. The project fully complied with (and even exceeded) Bank
environmental safeguard requirements. The project triggered only OP/BP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment and was rated Category B. The project EA and EMP were received from the
Borrower together with the description of the public disclosure and consultation process.
EMP implementation and compliance with environmental requirements. Implementation of
EMP measures was satisfactory. All subprojects were preliminarily assessed and EIA reports
were included in design documents, identifying potential environmental impacts along with the
environmental protection and monitoring activities. The State Ecological Expertise (SEE)
officially approved the final design documents. The contractors followed strictly the
environmental requirements and there were neither outstanding environmental issues nor any
complaints registered. The installed systems provided higher energy efficiency and adequate
quality of service, with low emissions of greenhouse gases and other harmful substances. This
has been proven by an independent energy efficiency audit conducted by a Swedish company,
including tests for emission and noise indicators for each boiler. In case of non-compliance the
contractors were obliged to implement corrective measures.
Energy efficiency and environmental performance of heating subprojects. The project’s
environmental benefits were substantial. The level of NOx emissions reached 50-60ppm, which
is half of the permitted national standard of 120ppm. Emissions of nitrogen oxides have been
reduced by 38 tons annually, emissions of sulfur oxides have reduced from 18.5 tons per year to
almost none. There are no emissions of dust compared to 1.3 tons annually before the project.
This has significantly improved air quality in the participating communities. Annual emissions
of greenhouse gas CO2 have reduced by almost 20 000 tons, benefitting the global climate.
Synergy with the associated Community Development Carbon Fund (CDCF) Energy
Conservation and Emission Reduction Project and the Carbon Finance Revenues. The CDCF
project initiated in 2006 was based on the Energy II project’s energy efficiency measures in
public buildings and comprised 19 small – scale geographically and technologically independent
CDM project activities based on fuel switching from coal, heavy oil, and electric heating to
natural gas. The Emission Reductions (ERs) for July 01, 2007 – June 30, 2008 showed a total of
8,835 tons of ERs compared to 3,725 tons in the 2005-2006 heating season. The Carbon Finance
Unit 15 transferred US$50,000 in total to the beneficiaries, who used the carbon payments to
cover urgent social needs, as well as to pay for the maintenance of installed boilers.
Environmental performance and removal of PCBs in the electricity component. Most of
activities were implemented within the GEF Persistent Organic Pollutants Stockpiles
Management and Destruction Project (POPs), which scaled up the initially planned
environmental upgrades, and included the following:
        (i)       18,656 PCB contaminated capacitors were dismantled and about 1,266.2 tons of
                  highly polluted soil were excavated from the Vulcanesti 400 kV substation and other
                  13 lower voltage sub-stations and shipped for final disposal to France;
        (ii)      a regulatory framework for PCB management was developed;




15
     CFU – the CDCF project implementing entity under the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources.




                                                                      12
   (iii)   two workshops to train ME staff on proper handling, packing, loading and labeling of
           PCB containing or/and contaminated capacitors and on emergency procedures; and
   (iv)    a full PCBs inventory in the energy sector was completed and all transformers
           containing PCBs were labeled.
The other environmental upgrade measures performed by ME during 2008-2010 using own
funds related to: designing, manufacturing and repairs of oil collectors and drip-pans under the
oil-based equipment; overhaul of oil-based circuit breakers and power transformers; replacement
of oil-based bushings by dry ones; replacement of the fire-fighting pipeline at the Straseni 330
kV substation; planting of greenery at Vulcanesti substation and replacement of gravel under the
oil-based equipment,; and tamping of the artesian well at the Straseni 330 kV substation, etc,
amounting to a total of MDL3.5 million(US$270,000 equivalent).
Fiduciary Compliance
Financial Management. MEPIU fully complied with the Bank’s fiduciary policies and the
financial covenants requiring audits, PMRs, etc. ME routinely complied with the financial
covenants in the Project Agreement (audit, debt service requirements, accounts receivable not
exceeding 60 days of sales). The only financial covenant that ME did not always fully comply
with was the current ratio covenant.
Procurement. Procurement under the project was implemented in accordance with the Bank’s
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines and the Standard Bidding Documents were used.
Procurement plans were regularly updated and submitted to the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Electricity Component. The sustainability of investments under the electricity component is
ensured by ANRE maintaining ME’s tariffs at cost-recovery levels, also considering the
revaluation of ME’s fixed assets. Building on the outcomes of the project, ME has recently
signed a US$20 million loan with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a
Euro 17 million loan with the European Investment Bank to further upgrade the transmission
system. The EU Neighborhood Investment Fund provided a grant of Euro 8 million in co-
financing to the EBRD and EIB loans.
Latest discussions with the Government within the draft CPS scope indicate potential for
continuing support by the Bank in the power transmission sector in the form of TA to analyze the
optimization of energy supply.
Heating Component. The sustainability of the heating component is enhanced by the selection
of public buildings which will continue to be used as schools and hospitals and will be financed
by the state or local budgets. During implementation careful attention was paid to the ability of
the beneficiaries to finance fuel and other operating and maintenance costs for heating systems
installed or upgraded by the project, and budgetary provisions were included in the budgets of
the respective authorities.
The equipment provided by the project is of the latest available design, with high efficiency, and
if properly maintained should ensure the beneficiaries with quality power and heat supply at the
sites where equipment was replaced for at least the next 15 years.




                                               13
The Bank is currently providing support to the Government for the institutional, corporate and
financial restructuring of the DH sector in Chisinau in the form of Technical Assistance through
the ongoing SIDA-funded TA. The Bank initiated the preparation of a proposed IDA District
Heating Efficiency Improvement Project to finance priority demand-side EE investments in
Termocom (or the Newco – the new company after the merger of Termocom and CHPs) and
debt restructuring support.
MEPIU. The MoE continues to benefit from MEPIU as fiduciary agent for the ongoing
technical assistance funded by the Government of Sweden, including the ESREI TF
implemented by the Bank. Further support by MEPIU for the new project is subject to the
government’s position, which will be discussed with the Bank during the preparation phase of
the proposed new IDA operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives are extremely relevant to the National Development Strategy “Moldova 2020?,
which sets out seven national priorities, one of which is energy efficiency.
The project is also consistent with the current Joint IDA/IFC Country Partnership Strategy for
the period FY09-FY13, which was discussed at the Board on January 29, 2009.
The project objectives and the embedded policy dialogue remain relevant to all three pillars of
the CPS: (a) improving economic competitiveness to support sustainable economic growth; (b)
minimizing social and environmental risks, building human capital and promoting social
inclusion; and (c) improving public sector governance.
Investments to improve energy efficiency and heating in schools and hospitals and improve the
security and reliability of the electricity transmission system have helped fulfill the CPS
objectives 16.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project has successfully achieved its PDO for both the electricity and the heating component.
•       The project was successful in improving the security and reliability of the electricity
transmission system and wholesale electricity supply, thereby facilitating unimpeded commercial
operation of the power system. Outage rates in power transmission have been reduced by 59
percent. Non-technical losses have been reduced to 0 through the metering system
improvements and the modernization of selected high voltage substations. Unserved energy has
been reduced significantly, from 400 MWh in 2002 to 101.2 MWh in 2011. Now that the
SCADA and Telecommunications systems are fully operational, it is expected that there will be
further improvements in the quality, reliability and efficiency of the transmission system.
Project achievements are particularly important in the view of Moldova recently becoming a
member of the EU Energy Community Treaty.
•       The project was also successful in significantly improving the availability, quality and
efficiency of heating in selected public priority buildings such as schools and hospitals. Prior to

16
   A new CPS is currently under preparation and scheduled for discussion at the Board in March 2013. The new CPS identifies Energy Efficiency
as one of the main development challenges under the Climate Change agenda.




                                                                    14
the project in most small towns in Moldova the district heating system had failed in the 1990s,
and schools and hospitals were only partially heated using old coal boilers for about 30 days
during winter or not heated at all and were closed, while hot water was available on an extremely
limited basis through electric boilers at high energy costs.
As a result of the project, heating and domestic hot water is now provided to 252 buildings
throughout the year. Students study, patients are treated and staff work in comfortable
conditions without having to wear coats and gloves indoors. Energy savings as a result of the
heating component are estimated to be about 110 GWh a year. The specific energy demand has
gone from 126-905 kWh/m2 (average 352 kWh/m2) to 63-333 kWh/m2 (150 kWh/m2 average).
The sites included in the project have reached energy savings ranging from between 39 percent
and 67 percent, with an average of 58 percent energy savings for the whole project. The
Additional Financing increased the social targets and thus contributed to a greater social impact.

3.3 Efficiency
At project appraisal in 2003, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated for the electricity
component of the project, which at the time accounted for the bulk (61 percent) of the total
project cost. For the heating component, the ERR was not estimated in view of the difficulties
in estimating the economic benefits for the types of improvements to be secured under the
project, which mainly included improvement in the health, well-being and comfort of the
population benefiting from the main targeted institutions. Instead, the appraisal relied on a least-
cost analysis of the investments under this component.
At project completion, the ERR has been re-estimated for the electricity component using the
same methodology used at appraisal, updated on the basis of actual experience and information
where available. The results are summarized in the table below (further details are given in
Annex 3).
Electricity Component
 Indicator At project appraisal At project completion
 ERR         39.3%              39.8%
 NPV         US$69.2 million    US$69.9 million
For the heating component, for the reasons indicated earlier, an assessment of the overall
economic benefits was not undertaken at project completion. However, a comparison is
provided in Annex 3 between the targets set at appraisal and the estimated achievements. With
regard to operating and energy efficiency, the technical reviews during implementation and at
completion have confirmed that the chosen investments were the least-cost options for the
intended objectives.
A Financial rate of return (FRR) was not estimated at project appraisal and project completion. As
indicated in Annex 3, the financial performance of ME – the beneficiary/implementing agency of
the electricity component – was generally satisfactory through the year 2009, with profitable
operations. ANRE’s methodology enables ME to operate based on tariffs set at adequate cost-
recovery levels, including by permitting ME to revalue its assets to compensate for inflation.
However, for 2010 and 2011, ME incurred annual losses due to delays by ANRE to include in the
tariff the value of revaluated assets. In disclaiming an opinion on the financial statements, ME’s
external auditors further pointed out that ME did not adequately account for the increased
depreciation charges resulting from the revaluation. Based on the annual audited financial




                                                15
statements, ME’s financial ratios were generally satisfactory with the exception of the current ratio
which declined to below the covenanted levels in 2009 but has since been improving and almost
reached the covenanted level in 2011. Details are given in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the discussion in Sections 3.1-3.3, the overall outcome is rated as Satisfactory because
the project is relevant to the current CPS, met or exceeded its development objectives, and well-
justified since the efficiency indicators for the electricity component were satisfactory and the
investments under the heating component were least-cost.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The electricity investments were system-wide and accrued to all consumers including the poor.
The considerably reduced risk of a system-wide power system failure benefits consumers
throughout the country, including in disproportionately poor areas such as rural locations.
The increased levels of heating and hot water provided to public buildings offering critical social
services such as education and health services have positively impacted the lives of over a
million people. Improved heating at two buildings of the Center for Mother and Child in
Chisinau and improved heating of the maternity wards in several other hospitals have benefited
women and infants, who are most at risk in extremely cold temperatures.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
ME’s technical and financial capacity increased as a result of the project. ME gained experience
in implementing donor financed projects, which helped them obtain additional loans for further
upgrades of the power transmission infrastructure.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
    • Although the project was expected to have environmental benefits due to the replacement
       of obsolete equipment with newer, more environmentally-friendly equipment, it was not
       expected that the institutions would receive carbon finance credits as a result of the
       project investments in the heating component.
    • Investment funds were leveraged with other donors. When several priority institutions
       could not be financed from the IDA Credits, SIDA financed additional buildings.
    • The visible results of the heating component encouraged local authorities to do additional
       investments with own funding or to obtain grant funding from other donors. In most
       cases the beneficiaries have made improvements to their buildings. Besides general
       maintenance such as painting of inside walls, the replacing of windows and in some cases
       improved roofs have resulted in even lower energy consumption and improved indoor
       conditions. Some beneficiaries have also included additional buildings into the heating
       system as a result of the surplus available capacity due to reduced energy consumption.
       For example, in Ungheni, four boiler plants were financed by the project, and the
       Municipality financed an additional 10 boiler plants, with a total capacity of 36.6 MW.
       Another example is the Orhei District Hospital, which after the completion of the project




                                                 16
           obtained funding from the EU and GIZ to further enhance energy efficiency, including
           installation of solar panels for heating water during the non-heating period.
      •    ME financed US$10.84 million equivalent of the project costs compared to US$4.33
           million equivalent planned at appraisal for environmental upgrades, metering, and
           replacement of transmission lines.
      •    The Government developed and adopted a new Energy Law in 2009, an Energy
           Efficiency Program and Action Plan, and a DH financial, institutional and corporate
           restructuring Concept in 2011, which has as the objective to return Termocom (district
           heating company in Chisinau) to financial viability and improve its efficiency, as well as
           to prepare a debt restructuring plan for repayment of debts for gas to
           Moldovagaz/Gazprom. In 2010, Moldova became a full member of the Energy
           Community Treaty.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
There was no formal beneficiary survey at the end of the project; however, feedback visits were
conducted by the heating consultants. Based on feedback interviews, nearly all beneficiaries
were very satisfied with their systems. There have been few, if any problems with operation of
the equipment. In 2008, the director of one of the hospitals that had received heating
improvements under the project said:
       “We heated the working rooms with electric heaters for four years, and the
       specialists had to cram into fewer rooms to save power. The air temperature was
       as low as 8 C in the corridors, and many patients with certain health problems
       risked catching a cold. We have been operating in comfortable conditions for two
       years now, which has resulted in a two-fold drop in the rate of morbidity owing to
       respiratory conditions among health workers.? 17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
• Technical risk is assessed as negligible to low. All of the technologies introduced are well-
    established and ME and the heating component beneficiaries have received training from the
    suppliers, and have maintenance programs in place.
• Financial risk is assessed as substantial as ME’s financial position, which was satisfactory
    through 2009, has deteriorated in 2010 and 2011. The key to ME’s future financial viability
    is the extent to which ME’s tariffs are set based on full cost recovery and based on revaluated
    value of its assets. While ANRE has a stated policy of enabling ME to maintain its tariffs at
    cost-recovery levels, in practice, ME has not been able to fully realize the benefits from the
    revaluation of its assets as explained in Annex 3. ME’s future viability will depend upon the
    Government, ANRE and ME acting together to ensure full-cost recovery for ME. Financial
    risk for the heating component improvements is dependent on the local authorities and/or the
    national government providing adequate budgetary resources for systems operation and
    maintenance.
• Economic risk is assessed as moderate. Economic returns to the project investments, valued
    at relevant international prices of energy, continue to be substantial provided that ME’s
    physical operations continue to operate at satisfactory levels. The main risk to economic


17
     From “Keeping People Warm and Lights On?, ECA Results Story.




                                                                    17
   benefits is further deterioration of ME’s financial situation, which could lead to inefficiencies
   in the electricity supply to distribution companies and to eligible consumers.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory by the Seventh Quality at
Entry Assessment 7 (QEA7) for FY 2004-2005 by QAG. Project preparation was put on hold on
several occasions in order to ensure that the necessary legal, regulatory, policy and institutional
framework was in place before the project investments began, and a specific covenant was
incorporated in the DCA to ensure that the framework would remain in place throughout project
implementation. The Bank team obtained all necessary grant financing (PHRD, PPF, SIDA trust
funds) to ensure that the project was adequately prepared, with the necessary background studies
and analysis, and a Project Implementation Unit in place in December 2000.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Project supervision was carried out regularly and a detailed mid-term review was conducted.
Regular videoconferences and phone calls were organized. During several years of project
implementation the TTLs were based in Kiev and in Chisinau, enabling them to maintain close
contact with the government, MEPIU and ME, as well as with the SIDA representatives.
Beginning in 2010, the task team leader initiated bi-monthly meetings of Bank staff, ME, MoE
and MEPIU, and the SCADA contractor in an effort to resolve the delays in implementation of
the SCADA/Telecommunications contract. This helped to resolve the poor communications
between ME and its contractor and was instrumental in ensuring the successful completion of the
project. The Bank team also obtained a significant amount of grant funds to finance technical
assistance for key tasks. The Bank team had an appropriate skills mix and budget to effectively
monitor project implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the satisfactory quality at entry and supervision ratings, the overall Bank performance
is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Despite numerous changes in the government, it remained deeply committed to the Project. The
Deputy Prime Minister of Moldova headed the MEPIU Supervisory Board, which met regularly
on a set schedule during the latter years of project implementation. ANRE made the necessary
tariff adjustments to maintain ME’s tariffs at cost-recovery levels, except for delayed approval of
tariff to include the new value of assets after the 2010 revaluation. The Ministry of Economy
took an active interest in resolving the SCADA contract issues and getting the implementation of




                                                18
this contract back on-track, so that the commissioning and final testing could be completed by
April 30, 2012. In 2011, the government allocated about MDL25 million from the national
budget for energy efficiency measures for several of the beneficiaries of the heating component.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
There were basically three implementing agencies: Moldelectrica for the Electricity Component,
the local authorities for the heating component, and MEPIU which managed day-to-day project
activities, served as the liaison between the beneficiaries and the Bank, and ensured that all the
Bank requirements were met. Each agency is rated separately below.
Moldelectrica designated its own technical project implementation team, including an
Environmental Management Specialist, to work with the contractors on physical implementation
of the electricity component and with MEPIU in administering the project. Except for the
SCADA/Telecommunications contract, all other contracts were completed on time. ME used its
own resources to finance environmental upgrade measures (see section 2.4). During most of the
project ME complied with all of the financial covenants in the Project Agreement (debt service
coverage ratio of not less than 1.5, current ratio of not less than 1.2 and accounts receivable not
to exceed 60 days of sales revenues), except the current ratio, which was 0.8 in 2009 but had
improved to 1.1 in 2010 and to 1.18 in 2011. Because of the lengthy delays in implementation of
the SCADA contract, ME’s performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
Local Authorities, Municipalities, etc. The heating component was completed on time in
December 2011. Despite some initial delays due to lack of funding for building thermal
rehabilitation, the local authorities were effective in monitoring and supervising the works at
their sites and providing the necessary information to MEPIU and heating consultants. Many
local authorities implemented other energy saving measures, either through their own means or
other donors. The performance of local authorities is rated as Satisfactory.
MEPIU was the main coordinating unit for project implementation and worked diligently on all
aspects of project implementation. It strictly followed Bank procedures and the provisions of its
Operations Manual. MEPIU staff were experienced, adequately trained, and highly effective and
spoke English well, which facilitated contacts with Bank staff in Washington. Hiring of a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist early in the project was extremely helpful in tracking the
progress towards meeting the PDO. MEPIU prepared a comprehensive mid-term review and
Borrower’s ICR, and regularly prepared quarterly progress reports. MEPIU worked closely with
the government, ME, local authorities under the heating component, the Bank, and other donors.
It is in a large part due to MEPIU that the project achieved all of its project development
objectives. The performance of MEPIU is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the ratings for Government and the 3 implementing agencies, the overall Borrower
performance is rated Satisfactory.




                                                19
6. Lessons Learned
    • The difficulty of introducing modern SCADA/Telecommunications systems should
       not be underestimated with respect to complexity and time required for
       implementation. Adequate time should be allowed for development of technical
       specifications. Implementation of a new SCADA system often requires adjustments to
       the technical solutions initially identified, which leads to prolonged implementation. A
       utility unfamiliar with the most advanced technology should therefore have an in-house
       independent consultant to the utility and a consultant owner’s engineer, who would be
       present during the design and preparation of technical specifications, through the
       evaluation of bids, and through implementation of the contract to its completion. Timely
       and prompt interventions by project teams are critical to remedy contract management
       issues and implementation delays.
    • PPFs should be used to finance pilot investments, as well as technical assistance and
       set-up of implementing agencies. PPF for projects combining investments with sector
       policy reforms is a critical instrument to provide positive demonstration effects and
       contribute to increased confidence in success and higher commitment by end-
       beneficiaries. The use of the PPF in the Ungheni pilot project provided both an early
       demonstration of the results/impact of heating/energy efficiency improvements and also a
       test of the proposed solution to connect residential buildings, provided that the residents
       are willing to pay for the heat. It also introduced an element of competition for
       participating municipalities and thereby triggered higher commitment to successfully
       complete the sub-projects and ensure sustainability.
    • If the institutional framework to ensure the viability of heating investments in the
       household sector is weak due to ambiguous and often contradictory legal basis of
       home owner associations, it is better to focus on public buildings, as the social
       benefits accrue to all. The Additional financing following the government’s request
       helped to augment the social impact of the project, spreading the benefits of energy
       efficiency components to a larger number of children, students, in- and outpatients, and
       staff. Public ownership of beneficiary buildings provides for greater sustainability of
       investments through proper allocation of resources for O&M and fuel.
    • Importance of selection criteria. Upfront statement of clear and transparent selection
       criteria considerably reduces potential political pressures and influence both during the
       selection of project beneficiaries, as well as during the implementation of investments.
       Despite the overarching control by one political constituency there was not a single signal
       or complaint on political influence on the project during preparation and implementation.
    • Proper sequencing of policy dialogue and investments provides for better
       sustainability. The project was initiated at times of important changes in the country’s
       political landscape, which led to a fragile and often unpredictable political economy. The
       SAC-III program, which included energy reform actions, had failed. The reforms,
       however, could still be implemented due to the joint approach and the adequate synergy
       between sector policy dialogue and investments, which were included in the project
       design.
    • Including policy reforms in the project, accompanied by priority investments, was
       instrumental in leveraging additional domestic and donors financing. The reform
       actions combined with the demonstration effect of priority investments played a catalytic
       role in attracting additional resources, which, in turn, contributed to achievement of




                                               20
          greater outcomes and enhanced sustainability. The Government of Sweden allocated
          additional funds for energy efficiency and energy conservation; the beneficiaries received
          extra resources due to carbon finance activities; GEF allocated additional resources
          which allowed the removal of PCBs at Moldelectrica. The EU and GIZ built on the sub-
          projects achievements to finance energy conservation measures, including use of
          renewables (installation of solar panels at Orhei District hospital).
     •    Carefully and diligently prioritized investments contribute to positive unintended
          outcomes. Moldova is an IDA country and therefore the available funds are rather
          limited. Selection of investment packages has been based on adequate identification of
          priority investments – consideration was given to priority energy efficiency investments
          (replacement of depleted infrastructure to increase efficiency and reduce costs) versus
          complete packages (energy efficiency and energy conservation), which would have
          reduced considerably the number of beneficiaries. Priority investments paved the way
          and helped raise future own and donors funding for energy conservation and additional
          energy efficiency measures, which increased the impact and the final outcomes of the
          project, as described above.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower/implementing agency prepared a comprehensive ICR, which was very helpful in
preparing the Bank’s ICR. The only discrepancy between the two ICRs was the method of
calculating unserved energy 18.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




18
  The MEPIU used the method used by ME until April 2012, which indicated 0% unserved energy since 2005. In April 2012 ME informed the
Bank that it was using a new method of calculating unserved energy, which resulted in unserved energy of 101.2 MWh in 2011, and this is the
calculation used in the Bank’s ICR.




                                                                    21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                  Appraisal +    Actual          Percentage
                                                   Additional
                                    Appraisal                     Additional     (USD            of Appraisal
                                                   Financing
    Components                      Estimate                      Financing      millions)       and AF
                                                   Estimate
                                    (USD millions)                Estimate                       Estimates
                                                   (USD millions)
                                                                  (USD millions)
Electricity Component
     Metering                                  3.96           0.00           3.96      3.01                76
     SCADA                                     5.52           0.00           5.52     17.95               167
                                                                                  Included
    Telecommunications                         5.26           0.00           5.26    in
                                                                                  SCADA
   Transmission                               9.74            0.00           9.74     15.84               163
 Subtotal Electricity                        24.49            0.00          24.49     36.80               150

Heating Component                              9.16           9.82          18.98     21.91               115

Technical Assistance
   Project Implementation
   Heating                                     0.60           1.00           1.60      1.69               106
   Electricity                                 0.60           0.00           0.60       .78               130
   Environmental Management (GEF)              0.10           0.00           0.10      2.03                20
   Sector Reforms                              0.30           0.00           0.30      0.24               203

Project Management &                                                                   1.63               104
                                               1.38           0.18           1.56
Administration
Total Baseline Cost                          36.62           11.00          47.63     65.08               137
                                                                                          0
Physical Contingencies                                                       1.11
                                               1.11           0.00
                                                                                             0
Price Contingencies
                                              2.19            0.00           2.19
Total Project Costs                          39.93           11.00          50.93     65.08               128

Total Financing Required                     39.93           11.00          50.93     65.08               128




                                                 22
(b) Financing

                                                    Additional   Appraisal
                                                    Financing    +
                                                                                          Percentage
                                          Appraisal Estimate     Additional
                                Type of                                     Actual        of
                                          Estimate (USD          Financing
Source of Funds                 Parallel                                    (USD          Appraisal
                                          (USD      millions)    Estimate
                                financing                                   millions)     And Add.
                                          millions)              (USD
                                                                                          Fin.
                                                                 millions)

Borrower (ME)                                   4.33      0.00          4.33      10.84          250
Borrower (Municipalities)                                                          1.04
Borrower (Government)                                                              0.10
International     Development                            10.00         45.00
                                               35.00                              49.21          109
Association (IDA)
SWEDEN: Swedish Intl. Dev.
                                                0.60                               1.86          116
Cooperation Agency (SIDA)                                 1.00          1.60
GEF                                             0.00      0.00          0.00       2.03




                                                23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                          Planned
Output from each                                          Outputs under
                           Planned Outputs                                     Actual Outputs                    Comment
Component                                                 Additional
                                                          Financing 19
Component A: Electricity System Upgrade
Improved           400 meters plus one                                         580 meters and one                Completed in June 2010
metering of        Metering                                                    Metering Management
electricity flows  Management System                                           System were installed
and administration
and management
of the wholesale
electricity market
Improved power     Installation of                                             SCADA and
system dispatch    dispatch equipment.                                         telecommunications
and control        Installation of                                             systems installed and
                   telecommunications                                          operational
                   equipment.
Bottlenecks in the 53 high-voltage                                             47 high-voltage circuit           Completed in June 2010.
transmission       circuit breakers                                            breakers were installed           Only 47 high-voltage
system reduced     installed at three                                          at three 330 kV                   circuit breakers were
                   major substations                                           substations and one 110           procured under the
                   330 kV lines:                                               kV substation                     project, as ME had
                   replacement or repair                                                                         already procured and
                   of 40 km of                                                                                   installed a number of
                   conductors, 120                                                                               circuit breakers with its
                   towers, 240 km of                                                                             own funds.
                   earthwire
                   110 kV lines:
                   replacement or repair
                   of 5 km of
                   conductors, 65
                   towers, 45 km of
                   earthwire.
Component B: Heating Supply and Efficiency Improvement
Improved heating   Number of              + 47                                 209 buildings (incl. 82
of selected public buildings 20 included  additional                           within AF) of 69
buildings          in the project: 80     buildings                            socially important public
                                                                               institutions and 43
                                                                               residential buildings
                                                                               now have improved
                                                                               heating throughout the
                                                                               winter season
Number of                  8,399 students and             4,800 students       27,485 students and
students and               teachers in schools            and teachers         teachers in schools and
teachers                   and children in                in schools and       children in kindergartens
benefiting from            kindergartens                  children in          and 12,938 within the
educational                                               kindergartens        AF heated throughout



19
     Additional financing was for only the heat supply and energy efficiency component.
20
   During project preparation, the terms “buildings? and “institutions? were used interchangeably. An institution or “object? might have 5-20
buildings on its campus.




                                                                      24
facilities heated                                          the winter season (more
120 days or more                                           than 120 days/year)
during the
winter 21
Number of           1,000,000 inpatients, 228,000          1,299,993 inpatients,
patients, medical   medical staff and     inpatients,      medical staff and
staff and           outpatients           medical staff    outpatients and 397,517
outpatients                               and              within the AF now
benefiting from                           outpatients      benefit from medical
medical facilities                                         facilities that are heated
heated 120 days                                            throughout the winter
or more during the                                         season (more than 120
winter. 22                                                 days/year).
Component C: TA for Project Implementation and Energy Sector Reforms
Project implementation TA for:
                           electricity component                                 Project implementation             Financed under the PPF
                                                                                 TA for the electricity             and under the IDA credit
                                                                                 components (prepared
                                                                                 technical specifications
                                                                                 and bidding documents
                                                                                 and assisted with
                                                                                 evaluation).


                           heating component                                     Project implementation             Financed from the SIDA
                                                                                 TA for the heating                 parallel financing of the
                                                                                 component throughout               project
                                                                                 the project
                                                                                 implementation period
                                                                                 (prepared technical
                                                                                 specifications and
                                                                                 bidding documents,
                                                                                 assisted with evaluation,
                                                                                 monitored construction,
                                                                                 and evaluated
                                                                                 performance after new
                                                                                 equipment was
                                                                                 installed).
                           PCB follow-up study                                   Environmental study for            Financed by GEF Grant
                                                                                 the electricity                    for Sustainable
                                                                                 component executed,                Persistent Organic
                                                                                 but not financed by the            Pollutants (POPs)
                                                                                 Project.                           Stockpiles Management
                                                                                                                    Program, which also
                                                                                                                    disposed of the old PCB-
                                                                                                                    containing condenser
                                                                                                                    batteries and capacitors.



21
    The original project measured only the number of buildings with improved heating, and the PAD foreseen a number of 15,000 pupil in
schools and kindergartens and 4,000 beds in hospitals. But during implementation the Bank requested MEPIU to revise the indicators and also
track the number of students and teachers in school and children in kindergartens, and
22
    inpatients and medical staff and outpatients benefiting from improved heating (the figures for medical staff, inpatients and outpatients were
revised by MEPIU to reflect correctly the share of people benefitting of stationary treatment (inpatients and outpatients on day stay) and
outpatient visits to the medical facilities rehabilitated under the project.). These were added as two new indicators in the Additional Financing.




                                                                        25
                  TA for improving                     Reports:
                  institutional and                    High Level
                  regulatory framework                 Specification of the
                  in the energy sector,                Market Rules for the
                  energy trading,                      Electricity Market of
                  privatization, and                   Moldova;
                  debt restructuring                   Legal Audit and
                                                       Benchmarking of
                                                       Moldova’s Energy
                                                       Sector for Compliance
                                                       with Energy Community
                                                       Requirements;
                                                       Balancing and
                                                       Settlement Regulations
                                                       for the Electricity
                                                       Market of Moldova.



                                                       Annual Audits of
                                                       Project and ME
                                                       accounts.

Component D: Project Management and Administration
                  Maintain competent   Maintain        An efficient, effective
                  and adequately       competent and   and adequately staffed
                  staffed PIU          adequately      PIU was maintained
                                       staffed PIU     throughout the project
                                                       implementation period.




                                                26
Results Framework – dynamic of project monitoring and evaluation indicators: Electricity Component
Indicators   Measurement
             Baseline Value             Progress to Date                                                                                    End-of-Project    Target
                                                                                                                                            Value
                Number or text   Date         Number or text                                                                 Date           Number       Date
                                                                                                                                            or text
PDO
Indicator
1. Reduce     2002: 253          12/31/2002   2002: 253 hours;                                                                 03/30/2012   Outage rates 04/30/2012
outage rates hours                            2003: 215 hours;                                                                              reduced by
of                                            2004: 304 hours;                                                                              35%
Moldelectrica                                 2005: 249 hours;
transmission                                  2006: 202 hours;
lines and                                     2007: 921 hours, of which 296 hours - “routine? outages, 625 hours were
substations                                   conditioned by one force-majeure circumstance– January 3, 2007. Due to sleet and
by 35%.                                       ice-crust on the ground and other surfaces, ME had to execute necessary repair
                                              works – the total time of outages due to the given conditions was 625 hours);
                                              2008: 203 hours.
                                              2009: 113 hours.
                                              2010: 162 hours.
                                              2011: 103 hours (59 % reduction)
2. Reduce       Non technical 12/31/2002      Non technical losses in transmission network: nonexistent Non technical losses 03/30/2012     Non          04/30/2012
non-technical   losses in                     in distribution network:                                                                      technical
losses in       2002 were                     2002: 11%                                                                                     losses
transmission    11%.                          2003: 11%;                                                                                    reduced by
and                                           2004: 8%;                                                                                     75%.
distribution                                  2005: 5%;
by 75%                                        2006: 2%;
                                              2007: 1.7%;
                                              2008: 1.4 %
                                              2009: 0.6 %
                                              2010: 0.68 %
                                              2011:0.00 % (100 % reduction)
3.    Reduce    Unserved     12/31/2002       2002: N/A;                                                                       03/30/2012   Unserved   04/30/2012
unserved        energy    of                  2004: 298.68 MWh;                                                                             energy
energy    by    about    602                  2005: 244.64 MWh;                                                                             reduced by
200 MWh per     MWh       in                  2006: 198.46 MWh;                                                                             200 MWh
year            1999.                         2007: 904.90 MWh;                                                                             per year
                                              2008: 199.45 MWh;

                                                                                 27
                                           2009: 111.02 MWh;
                                           2010: 159.16 MWh;
                                           2011: 101.2 MWh
                                           Target achieved, with unserved energy substantially reduced. 200 MWh
                                           per year was a rather vague target, with no starting year or ending year.
                                           Information from Moldelectrica’s Annual Report. This indicator was
                                           calculated differently by Moldelectrica in previous years and the
                                           calculation method has been revised in early 2012.

4.     Reduce   Total         12/31/2002   2002: 138.9 GWh                                                             03/30/2012   Technical  04/30/2012
technical       technical                  2003: 126.85 GWh                                                                         losses
losses     of   losses     of              2004: 139.6 GWh                                                                          reduced by
Moldelectrica   about     200              2005: 124.90 GWh                                                                         5%
by 5%.          GWh        in              2006: 127.2 GWh
                1999.                      2007: 120.0 GWh
                                           2008: 124.7 GWh
                                           2009: 122.60 GWh
                                           2010: 136.96 GWh
                                           2011: 131.04 GWh (5.65 % reduction)




                                                                            28
Results Framework – dynamic of project monitoring and evaluation indicators:
Heating Component
Status of agreed outcomes indicators:
Indicators               Measurement
                         Baseline Value                      End-of-Project                                      End-of-Project Target Value
                         Number or text       Date           Number or text                         Date         Number or text                         Date
PDO Indicator
1. Increase no. of       80 institutions/     12/31/2002        69 institutions & 43 residential        04/30/2012 120 days availability of heating in    04/30/2012
buildings with heating buildings with                           buildings (252 buildings (incl.                    the selected buildings.
throughout the winter    heating available                      schools, hospitals, kindergartens, and
season.                  from 0-30 days per                     orphanages) have heating and
                         year (during project                   Domestic Hot Water (DHW)
                         preparation the term                   availability throughout the entire year
                         institutions/                          (including during the winter heating
                         buildings was used;                    season, which is more than 120
                         an institution may                     days/year).
                         have 20 buildings                      (252: 170 within the original project
                         on its campus)                         + 82 within Additional Financing)
2. Number of students 15000 pupils            12/31/2002        27,485 students and teachers in         04/30/2012 8,399 students and teachers in         04/30/2012
and teachers and                                                schools and children in kindergartens              schools and children in
children who benefit                                            (plus AF – 12,938 persons) benefiting              kindergartens; plus 4,800 students
from educational                                                from heating and DHW throughout                    and teachers in schools and children
facilities with 120 days                                        the entire year (including during the              in kindergartens – the Additional
or more availability of                                         winter heating season, which is more               Financing, benefiting from
quality heating during                                          than 120 days/year.                                educational facilities with 120 days
the heating season.                                                                                                or more availability of quality
                                                                                                                   heating during the heating season.
3. Number of inpatients, 4000 beds                 12/31/2002 412,206 inpatients and 876,610            04/30/2012 1 million inpatients, staff and        04/30/2012
medical staff and                                               outpatients and 11,177 medical                     outpatients plus 228,000 inpatients,
outpatients benefiting                                          staff/year –1,299,993 persons total in             staff and outpatients (the Additional
from health care                                                (plus AF - 51,806 and 3,691 and                    Financing), benefiting from health
facilities with 120 days                                        342,020, respectively – 397,517                    care facilities with 120 days or more
or more availability of                                         persons in total)* benefiting from                 availability of quality heating during
quality heating during                                          heating and DHW throughout the                     the heating season.
the heating season.                                             entire year (including during the
                                                                winter heating season, which is more
                                                                than 120 days/year.
* - the figures for medical staff, inpatients and outpatients were revised by MEPIU to reflect correctly the share of people benefitting of stationary treatment and
outpatient visits to the medical facilities rehabilitated under the project.

                                                                                29
Typical obsolete equipment replaced under the project heating component




Typical modern equipment financed under the project heating component




                                  30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS

For the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) prepared in 2003, an economic analysis was carried
out for the electricity component which accounted, at the time, for the bulk of the project costs.
For the heating component, the PAD recognized that, for the reasons mentioned below under the
heating component, a quantitative assessment of the economic benefits of the heating component
could not be carried out. Instead, for the PAD, a least-cost analysis was carried out for this
component. For the ICR, the economic analysis for the electricity component has been updated
using the same methodology as in the PAD and utilizing actual results and experience during
implementation where relevant information was available. For the heating component, in view
of the reasons mentioned in the PAD, no overall assessment of the quantitative benefits has been
undertaken for the ICR. However, a qualitative assessment is provided with support from some
partial quantitative indicators of the benefits where data are available.

Electricity Component

Estimates at project appraisal: The component had four main subcomponents: (i) metering,
(ii) dispatch, (iii) telecommunications, and (iv) transmission. The main benefits were expected
to come in the form of: (i) reduction in unserved energy, (ii) avoided collateral damages, (iii)
reduction in transmission losses, (iv) improved telecommunications, (v) reductions in non-
technical losses (metering) and (vi) improved security. About 84% of the total economic benefits
were expected to come from the projected reduction in unserved energy. The economic
valuation of reduction in unserved energy was based on a shadow price determined on an
estimated willingness-to-pay. This was calculated as the average of the estimated cost of self-
generation (based on diesel fuel based generation) and the end-user tariff, and the average was
then adjusted downwards by 20%. Estimation of volume was done on the basis of the degree of
load left unserved, utilizing a probability of disruptive events and assumed growth of power
demand.

Based on the foregoing, the PAD estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) as 39.3% and
the Net Present Value (NPV) of US$ 69.2 million at a discount rate of 12%.

Re-estimation at project completion: The re-estimation of the ERR and NPV has been carried
out using the same methodology as in the PAD utilizing updated information where available.
The detailed analysis is in the Project Files, and the main features are summarized below.

 Indicator                    At Project Appraisal           At Project Completion

 ERR                          39.3%                          39.8%
 NPV                          US$69.2 million                US$69.9 million

The main factors that have affected the re-estimated ERR are the following:

Positive impact: The shadow price at appraisal was based on a self-generation cost estimated on
the basis of the price (0.19 US cents per liter) of diesel fuel prevailing at the time (2003) when
                                                31
international oil prices were relatively low – US$ 25 per barrel. During the period of project
implementation (2003-2012), the international oil prices increased very sharply; the inflation-
adjusted index of international oil prices (with 2002=100) peaked at 334 in 2008 with an average
of about 227 for the entire implementation period. The re-estimation takes into account the
effects of the increase in international oil and diesel fuel prices.

Negative impact: The main factors are (i) the delay in realization of expected benefits due to the
longer implementation period and (ii) lower than anticipated reduction in unserved energy.
While unserved energy has been reduced from about 300 MWh in 2004 to about 100 MWh in
2011, the actual rate of reduction has been lower than projected at appraisal 23.

The combined effect of the positive and negative impacts is that the re-estimated ERR (39.8%)
and NPV (US$ 69.9 million) are slightly higher than the appraisal estimates of 39.3% and
US$ 69.2 million respectively.

Heating Component

Estimates at Project Appraisal: As stated in the PAD, the ERR was not estimated at appraisal
as it was judged to be very difficult to evaluate the benefits of improved heating for the type of
buildings included (schools, hospitals, etc.) due to the complex methodology and data
requirements involved in estimating the project specific and non-specific cases (lost school days
and their value; cost of increased incidence of illnesses of staff, students, and patients; cost of
poorer educational services and hospital care; inefficiencies and costs of the existing mode of
heating; etc.). Rather, the proposed investments were selected on the basis of the least-cost
analysis conducted under the Strategic Heating Options Study which concluded that heating
provided through stand-alone boilers or through mini-networks for a cluster of buildings would
be the least-cost option for Moldova, except perhaps for some areas of the capital city, Chisinau,
in the proximity of the Chisinau-2 CHP plant.

Assessment at Project Completion: Under the Project, the original allocation for the Heating
Component was US$9.1 million equivalent (26%) of the total credit amount of US$35 million
equivalent. Under the Additional Financing of US$10 million approved in January 2009, the
allocation for the Heating Component was increased to US$19.1 million equivalent, thereby
increasing its share to 42 % of the total Credit amount. The difficulties in undertaking any
quantitative assessment of economic benefits were recognized at project appraisal as described
above; consequently, no quantitative assessment of the overall costs-benefits has been
undertaken for the ICR. However, the Heating Component is judged to have resulted in many
significant gains through (i) improvements in the general well-being and comfort of the targeted
beneficiaries, including schools and hospitals; (ii) increased operating and energy efficiency in
the heat supply; and (iii) environmental benefits through reduced emissions. In the following, a
qualitative assessment of the benefits is provided and supported, where data are available, by
quantitative indicators from the Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report.


23
  It is important to notice, however, that the indicator at appraisal of 200 MWh reduction per year was a rather vague target, with no starting year
or ending year (Information from Moldelectrica’s Annual Report). This indicator was calculated differently by Moldelectrica in previous years
and the calculation method has been revised in 2012 towards project completion. Thus, the target is considered achieved, with unserved energy
substantially reduced.

                                                                        32
A. Targets for number of beneficiaries were exceeded (see the table below)

Indicator                                                               End     of Actual
                                                                        project    achievement
                                                                        target     (including under
                                                                                   Additional
                                                                                   Financing)

Number of institutions/buildings                                        80           252
with increased heating through the winter season (target was                         (69 institutions &
availability of heating for 120 days per year; actual achievement was                43 residential
availability of heating during the entire heating season which was                   buildings
more than 120 days per year)

Number of students, teachers and children                               15,000       27,485
benefiting from increased heating through the winter season             pupils       (incl. AF – 12,938)

Number of patients and medical staff benefiting
from increased heating through the winter season
 ------ in-patients                                                     4,000 beds   412,206
                                                                                     (incl. AF - 51,806)
------ medical staff                                                                 11,177 (incl. AF -
                                                                                     3,691)
------ out-patients                                                                  876,610 (incl. AF-
                                                                                     342,020)

The main beneficiaries from the project investments are the population, including students,
teachers, hospital and clinic patients and staff who experienced an increase in their levels of
comfort, well-being, and health through the improved heating facilities under the project.
Periodic feedback visits during project implementation have confirmed the beneficiaries’
satisfaction with the level and quality of improvements provided.




                                                   33
B. Increased energy efficiency and lower emissions from newly constructed boilers (see the
table below)

       Indicator             Unit          Before          After         Reductions in annual
                                           Project        Project        emissions (including
                                                                          Under Additional
                                                                             Financing)

Energy efficiency             %            40-45%         92-94%

Nitrous oxide            tons per year       59.4           9.8                  49.6
emissions

Sulfur dioxide           tons per year       21.4           0.0                  21.4
emissions

Dust                     tons per year       1.5            0.0                   1.5

Carbon dioxide           000 tons per        41.8           15.8                 26.0
                            year

Operating and energy efficiency: The project replaced 47 old and inefficient boiler plants and
both external and internal networks by new equipment and facilities. The main gains in
operating efficiency were in the form of (i) greater reliability of operation with fewer
breakdowns resulting in a more reliable and consistent heat supply to the customers; and (ii)
reductions in operating cost through lower expenses for repairs and maintenance.

In regard to energy efficiency, the new equipment and networks under the Project enabled
significant reductions in specific fuel consumption in the boilers (more detailed description is
provided in the main text).

Environmental benefits: As indicated in the table above, the new equipment and facilities
under the Project are also estimated to have resulted in substantial reductions in the annual
emissions of harmful gases and dust. A number of beneficiaries under the Heating Component
benefitted of Carbon finance credits.

FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

Project-level analysis

A project-level financial rate of return (FRR) was not estimated at project appraisal and has not
been estimated at project completion.

Financial sustainability. ME, the principal project implementing entity, had been functioning
profitably until 2009. An important feature had been the role of the National Regulatory Agency
for Energy (ANRE) in setting tariffs for ME at cost-recovery levels. Among ANRE’s enabling
actions was allowing ME to revalue its assets in 2010 to compensate for the effects of inflation.

                                               34
However, for the years 2010 and 2011, in disclaiming an opinion on ME’s financial statements,
ME’s external auditors reported that ME did not adequately adjust its annual depreciation
charges in line with international standards. If depreciation were to be estimated in line with
international standards, the auditors have pointed out that ME would have incurred higher losses
than reported by the company. The auditors have also commented that ME’s current liabilities
have been understated. Based on the audited financial statements, a summary of key financial
indicators is provided in the table below.

C. ME – Selected Financial Indicators (2007 to 2011)

                                            Unit           2007 2008 2009 2010            2011


INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues                                    US$ million    14.8    21.9   18.9    22.0    25.4
Expenses and tax                            US$ million    12.7    19.3   14.2    23.5    32.9
Profit after tax                            US$ million    2.1     2.6    4.7     (1.5)   (7.4)

BALANCE SHEETS
Accounts receivable                         US$ million    2.4     3.2    2.0     2.9     3.1
Total current assets                        US$ million    5.8     9.1    4.8     6.4     7.3
Total assets (see footnote)                 US$ million    65.2    79.1   70.6    194.0   191.9
Total current liabilities                   US$ million    1.9     4.9    6.1     5.7     6.2
Medium and long term debt                   US$ million    10.3    12.8   17.4    17.8    16.8
Total liabilities & equity (see footnote)   US$ million    65.2    79.1   70.6    194.0   191.9

FINANCIAL RATIOS
Current ratio                               Ratio          3.1     1.9    0.8     1.1     1.18
Debt service coverage ratio                 Ratio          14.2    11.1   9.1     1.7     3.9
Accounts receivable to sales revenues       number of days 59      53     39      48      45

Note: The value for 2010 reflects the effect of the revaluation of fixed assets carried out in 2010.
While ANRE’s tariff methodology provides for cost-recovery tariffs, including by permitting a
revaluation of ME’s assets for setting the regulatory asset base, in practice, the extent to which ME can
benefit from these steps depends upon the proper estimation of annual depreciation charges to be included
in setting the tariffs. For 2010 and 2011, as pointed out by the auditors, there have been shortcomings in
ME’s estimation of the annual depreciation charges, due to delayed approval of the new transmission
tariff to include the assets value after revaluation. Consequently, ME’s annual tariffs, as approved by
ANRE, may not adequately reflect cost-recovery levels.         Prospects for ME future financial viability,
therefore, depend upon an adequate resolution of these issues.

Compliance with financial covenants

Under the Project Agreement, ME had undertaken to meet the following covenants:

    (i)     A debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5 (Section 4.02 (a) of the PA);
    (ii)    A current ratio of not less than 1.2 (section 4.03 (a) of the PA); and
    (iii)   Accounts receivable not to exceed 60 days of sales revenues (Section 4.04).

                                                     35
Based on the audited financial statements, ME has been in compliance with these covenants with
the exception of the current ratio which was 0.8 in 2009, but this improved to 1.1 in 2010 and
1.18 in 2011 in relation to the minimum specified level of 1.2 in 2011.




                                             36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                    Responsibility/
Names                     Title                             Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending

Vladislav Vucetic         Lead Energy Specialist            ECSIE   Power Engineer
Pentti Aro                Heat and Power Engineer           ECSIE
Pekka Kalevi Salminen     Energy Specialist                 ECSIE
Michael Haney             Energy Specialist                 ECSIE
Enar Wennerstrom          Senior Financial Analyst          ECSIE
Snezana Mitrovic          Senior Procurement Specialist
Jann Masterson            Operations Officer                ECSIE
Vakhtang Kvekvetsia       Financial Specialist              ECSIE
Zoe Kolovou               Senior Counsel
John Ogallo               Financial Management Specialist   ECOPS
David Freese              Senior Finance Officer
Bogdan Constantinescu     Financial Management Specialist
Sandu Ghidirim            Operations Officer                ECSIE
Peggy Wilson              Consultant                        ECSIE
Ahmet Gokce               Senior Procurement Specialist
Marina Lysiakova          Program Assistant                 ECSIE


Supervision/ICR
Irina Babich              Financial Management Specialist   ECSO3
Andrei Busuioc            Financial Management Specialist   ECCAT
Kashmira Daruwalla        Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSO2
Oxana Druta               Financial Management Analyst      ECSO3
Sandu Ghidirim            Operations Officer                ECSS2
Ahmet Gokce               Consultant                        ECSO2
Peggy Janice Masterson    Operations Officer                ECSS2
Kishore Nadkarni          Consultant                        ECSS2
Alexandra Livia Onofrei   Program Assistant                 ECCRO
Anne N. Ranasinghe        Procurement Assistant             ECSO2
Pekka Kalevi Salminen     Senior Energy Specialist          ECSS2
Gurcharan Singh           Senior Procurement Specialist     TWICT
Viorica Dumitri Strah     Program Assistant                 ECCMD
Doina Visa                Senior Operations Officer         ECSS2
Anna L Wielogorska        Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPPR

                                         37
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                               1.41
  FY97                                                               0.46
  FY98                                                              27.09
  FY99
  FY00                                39.73                        193.38
  FY01                                56.13                        192.58
  FY02                                 9.58                        123.29
  FY03                                22.46                        119.73
  FY04                                22.15                         95.67
  FY05                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
Total:                               150.05                        753.61
Supervision/ICR
  FY96                                                               0.00
  FY97                                                               0.00
  FY98                                                               0.00
  FY99                                                               0.00
  FY00                                                               0.00
  FY01                                                               0.00
  FY02                                                               0.00
  FY03                                                               0.00
  FY04                                                               3.45

 FY05                                 25.18                         99.96
 FY06                                 30.77                        116.55
 FY07                                 23.14                         84.99
 FY08                                 25.88                         92.08
 FY09                                 23.90                         86.03
 FY10                                 30.73                         98.58
 FY11                                 30.81                        104.32
 FY12                                 32.80                         65.03
 TOTAL SPN                           223.21                        750.99




                                    38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable




                                        40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                       Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
                            for the Moldova Energy II Project
                                     March 22nd, 2012

The Moldova Energy II Project had the following objectives, which have been achieved:

•   For the Electrical Component: improve the security and reliability of the electricity
    transmission system and wholesale electricity supply and, therefore, facilitate unimpeded
    commercial operation of the power system, both domestically and internationally; and
•   For the Heating Component: improve the availability, quality, and efficiency of heating in
    selected priority public buildings (schools, hospitals, and residential buildings for disabled
    and other vulnerable groups).

    For this Project, two IDA credits (3833, equivalent of 38.5 million USD and 4541 equivalent
of 10.71 million USD) were used, along with local contribution and funds from other donors.

Project’s expenditures

 Credit 3833-MD
                                                             Local          IDA       Other     Total
 Component                                                   contribution   finaced   donors    US$ mln
                                                             US$ mln        US$ mln   US$ mln
 Electricity                                                 10.84*         25.96     0.00      36.80
    A1. Metering                                             2.37           0.34      0.00      2.71
    A2. Equipment for measurement transformers (ME)          0.30           0.00      0.00      0.30
    A3. Dispatch and Telecommunication                       0.89           17.06     0.00      17.95
    A4. Substation Equipment                                 5.89           7.32      0.00      13.21
    A5. Goods and materials for transmission lines           1.39           1.24      0.00      2.63
 Heating                                                     0.69**         10.34     0.00      11.03
    B. Pilot Project (Ungheni)                               0.02           0.66      0.00      0.68
    B1. Heating supply (Floresti, Falesti, Straseni, 0.11                   1.33      0.00      1.44
    Cantemir)                                                0.007          0.06      0.00      0.067
    B2.      Energy     Efficiency/building   rehabilitation 0.28           2.14      0.00      2.42
    (Cantemir, Straseni)                                      total B5-6:   2.14      0.00       total B5-
    B3. Heating supply (Leova, Nisporeni, Briceni, Falesti 0.27             4.01      0.00      6: 6.42
    Ialoveni, MoH)
    B5. Heating supply (objects of MoH)
    B6. Heating supply (objects of MoH)
 Technical Assistance                                        0.001***       1.06      3.30      4.36
    Electricity (IDA+Sida)                                   0.00           0.61      0.17      0.78
    Heating (Sida)                                           0.00           0.00      1.10      1.10
    Environmental Management (GEF)                           0.00           0.00      2.03      2.03
    Sector Reforms                                           0.00           0.24      0.00      0.24
    Audits of Project’s and ME’s accounts                    0.001          0.21      0.00      0.211
 Project Management and Administration                       0.10***        1.14      0.00      1.24
 Total credit 3833-MD                                        11.63          38.50     3.30      53.43

                                                41
 Credit 4541-MD – Additional Financing
 Heating                                                          0.35**   10.53      0.00       10.88
    B8. Heating supply (District Hospitals in Ocnita,             0.22     2.50       0.00       2.72
    Drochia, Orhei)                                               0.08     2.34       0.00       2.42
    B9. Heating supply (Drochia, Soldanesti, Cimislia             0.02     3.44       0.00       3.46
    towns)                                                        0.01     0.82       0.00       0.83
    B10. Heating supply (Anenii Noi, Stefan Voda,                 0.02     1.43       0.00       1.45
    Taraclia towns)
    B11. Heating supply (Center for Mother and Child)
    B12 Heating supply (District Hospitals in Cimislia,
    Soldanesti)
 Technical Assistance                                   0.00           0.00      0.59            0.59
    Heating (Sida)                                      0.00           0.00      0.59            0.59
 Project Management and Administration                  - included in 0.18       0.00            0.18
                                                        3833
 Total credit 4541-MD                                   0.35           10.71     0.59            11.65
 Total Project Costs                                    11.98          49.21     3.89            65.08
 Implemented Similar Activities, complementing the Energy II Project Heating Component
 Sida Financed: Boarding Schools in Hincesti, Cupcini,                           1,43            2.15
 Telenesti (Energy Support Progamme);                                            0.72
  Tyrnova Children’s Tuberculosis Rehabilitation Center
 (EE Project)
 TF financed (ESREI Project): Pediatric Department of                  1.15                      1.15
 CMC (9 blocks)
*ME sources; ** Local authorities’ sources; *** Government contribution

Project Impact: By rehabilitating and upgrading the power metering system, dispatch and
telecommunication systems within its Electricity Component, as well as by implementing
modern, highly efficient and environmentally-friendly thermal energy supply systems within its
Heating Component in a range of social institutions throughout the country, the Project improved
the reliability of both electricity and heat supply to the consumers, increased energy supply and
consumption efficiency and, correspondingly, contributes to strengthening country’s energetic
security, which creates a proper infrastructure framework for improvements within such priority
areas as public health, educational process, living standards of country’s population.

Project Outcomes per Components: (1) Under the Electricity Component, the project
contributed to improving the overall performance of the enterprise in the last 6 years. Technical
and non-technical losses were reduced, as well as outage rates of ME transmission lines and
substations. There were no unserved energy cases since 2005. The transmission system
rehabilitation has contributes to more reliable power supply. (2) Under the Heating Component,
for 252 buildings - 69 social institutions (mainly medical and educational institutions of local and
national levels) and 43 residential buildings – there has been ensured high-quality, secure and
reliable heat and domestic hot water availability throughout the entire year, this bringing
substantial economic, technical and environmental benefits for the concerned individual and
institutional beneficiaries, and social benefits for the concerned regions and country as whole.




                                                      42
       The project obtained the following major results within its two major components,
reported to the planned key performance indicators:

Status of agreed outcomes indicators for the Electrical Component:
Indicators      Measurement
                Baseline Value       Progress To Date                 End-of-Project Target Value
                Number or Date       Number or text          Date     Number or text                Date
                text
PDO
Indicator
1.     Reduce 2002: 253 12/31/2 2003: 215 hours;             12/31/20 Reduce outage rates by 4.30.20
outage rates hours           002     2004: 304 hours;        11       59 %, due to the new 12
of         ME                        2005: 249 hours;                 installed high voltage
transmission                         2006: 202 hours;                 equipment       (substation
lines      and                       2007: 921 hours, of              equipment, goods and
substations by                       which 296 hours -                materials                 for
35%.                                 “routine?      outages,          transmission          lines),
                                     625     hours     were           procured       under      the
                                     conditioned by one               electrical      component
                                     force-majeure                    which improved the
                                     circumstance–                    quality of power supply.
                                     January 3, 2007,due              The      indicator       was
                                     to sleet and ice-                calculated by monitoring
                                     crusted ground and               the number and duration
                                     other surfaces, there            of outages at overhead
                                     was necessary to                 power transmission lines
                                     perform repair works             and               respective
                                     – the total time of              equipment, connecting
                                     outages due to the               these lines to the
                                     given conditions was             transformer substations
                                     of 625 hours);                   (switch-yards).
                                     2008: 203 hours.
                                     2009: 113 hours.
                                     2010: 162 hours
                                     2011: 103 hours
                                     (59 % reduction)
2.     Reduce Non            12/31/2 Non technical losses 12/31/20 Non technical losses 4.30.20
non-technical technical      002     in        transmission 11        reduced by 100 % due to 12
losses       in losses    in         network:           Non           the      new        installed
transmission 2002 were               technical losses in              equipment,         procured
and             11%.                 distribution network:            under      the     electrical
distribution                         2003: 11%;                       component        (Metering,
by 75%                               2004: 8%;                        Dispatch                 and
                                     2005: 5%;                        telecommunication)
                                     2006: 2%;                        which improved the
                                     2007: 1.7%;                      quality of power supply.
                                     2008: 1.4 %                      The non-technical losses
                                     2009: 0.6 %                      represent the difference
                                     2010: 0.68 %                     between       the      actual
                                     2011:0.00 %                      technological

                                                  43
                                 (100 % reduction)              consumption and the
                                                                standard         allowance
                                                                calculated and approved
                                                                by ANRE
3.     Reduce Unserved 12/31/2 2003: 118.08 MWh; 12/31/20 Reduced                 unserved
unserved      energy of 002        2004: 3674.10 MWh; 11        energy up to 0 by year
energy     by about 602            2005: 0;                     2005. That was attained
200 MWh per MWh         in         2006: 0;                     through ensured power
year          1999.                2007: 0                      delivery in quantity
                                   2008: 0                      covering demand of
                                   2009: 0                      internal market (DISCO
                                   2010: 0                      responsibility) and by
                                   2011: 0                      ensuring fail-safe power
                                                                supply due to the new
                                                                installed high voltage
                                                                equipment.             This
                                                                indicator monitoring was
                                                                ensured     through      an
                                                                adequate metering in all
                                                                embranchments             to
                                                                external systems and to
                                                                power          distribution
                                                                systems         (Metering,
                                                                Dispatch                and
                                                                telecommunication sub-
                                                                systems, which improved
                                                                the quality of power
                                                                supply).
4.     Reduce Total        12/31/2 2002: 138.9 GWh    12/31/20 Reduce by 5% the 4.30.20
technical     technical    002     2003: 126.85 GWh 11         technical losses that 12
losses of ME losses     of         2004: 139.6 GWh             present the difference
by 5%.        about 200            2005: 124.90 GWh            between the quantum of
              GWh       in         2006: 127.2 GWh             power at the entering
              1999.                2007: 120.0 GWh             and exiting the power
                                   2008: 124.7 GWh             transmission       system,
                                   2009: 122.60 GWh            which improved the
                                   2010: 136.96 GWh            quality of power supply.
                                   2011: 131.04 GWh            This is obviously due to
                                   (5,66%           %          the results of installation
                                   reduction)                  of new, digital energy
                                                               meters,      and       new
                                                               primary      high-voltage
                                                               equipment at the most
                                                               important substations in
                                                               the          transmission
                                                               network.




                                             44
Status of agreed outcomes indicators for the Heating Component:
Indicators      Measurement
                Baseline Value            Progress To Date                    End-of-Project Target Value
                Number or text Date       Number or text           Date       Number or text     Date
PDO
Indicator
5. Increase     80                12/31/2 69 institutions & 43     12/31/20   120 days            4.30.2012
no. of          institutions/buil 002     (Ungheni, Stefan Voda, 11           availability of
buildings       dings with                Anenii Noi) residential             heating in the
with heating heating                      buildings (total of 252             selected buildings.
throughout      availability from         buildings incl. schools,
the winter      0-30 days per             hospitals,
season.         year (during              kindergartens, and
                project                   orphanages) have
                preparation the           heating and DHW
                term                      availability throughout
                institutions/             the entire year (incl.
                buildings was             during the winter
                used; an                  heating season, which
                institution may           is more than 120
                have 20                   days/year.
                buildings on its
                campus)
6. Number of 15000 pupils         12/31/2 27,485 teachers and      09/30/20   14,547 students     12/31/2011
students and                      002     students in schools and 11          and teachers in
teachers and                              children in                         schools and
children who                              kindergartens                       children in
benefit from                              benefiting from heating             kindergartens. Plus
educational                               and DHW throughout                  12,938 students
facilities with                           the entire year                     and teachers in
120 days or                               (including during the               schools and
more                                      winter heating season,              children in
availability of                           which is more than 120              kindergartens (the
quality                                   days/year (incl. AF –               Additional
heating                                   12,938 persons).                    Financing)
during the                                                                    benefiting from
heating                                                                       educational
season.                                                                       facilities with 120
                                                                              days or more
                                                                              availability of
                                                                              quality heating
                                                                              during the heating
                                                                              season.

7. Number of 4000 beds          12/31/2 412,206 inpatients and 09/30/20 902,476 inpatients, 12/31/2011
inpatients,                     002     11,177 medical staff     11     staff and
medical staff                           (incl. AF - 51,806 and          outpatients plus
and                                     3,691, respectively) and        397,517 inpatients,
outpatients                             876,610 (incl. AF-              staff and

                                                  45
benefiting                             342,020)*                       outpatients (the
from health                            outpatients/year                Additional
care facilities                        benefiting from heating         Financing),
with 120 days                          and DHW throughout              benefiting from
or more                                the entire year                 health care
availability of                        (including during the           facilities with 120
quality                                winter heating season,          days or more
heating                                which is more than 120          availability of
during the                             days/year.                      quality heating
heating                                                                during the heating
season.                                                                season.


The general conclusion of the report is that the project was successful; its experience should be
studied and replicated at the state level.

Project management. The branch Ministry was the chief Government agency responsible for
project implementation. Its role was to ensure that the project is implemented in an efficient
manner, consistent with project objectives and agreements signed with IDA. The Government,
under Decree No 1276 of December 21, 2000, established the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
as an independent legal entity, responsible for the day-to-day management of the project, with
particular emphasis on procurement, contract administration, financial management, accounting,
and reporting. The Supervisory Board of the PIU was presided over by the branch Minister, and
includes also representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Territorial
Development, and State Chancellery.

Most of the staff of the PIU were involved in implementation of the Energy I project, which was
financed by an IBRD loan, and closed in December 2001. The staff acquired significant expertise
and experience in implementing World Bank-financed projects. The PIU employed foreign
consultants to assist in procurement, upgrade procurement management and supervision system,
and provide additional training for the PIU staff. This assistance was especially intensive during
the first two years of project implementation, but was available on an as-needed basis throughout
the project.

ME had its own technical project implementation team, working, on the one side, with
contractors on physical implementation and, on the other side, with the PIU in administering the
project. ME management and technical personnel was closely involved in all stages:
procurement design, preparation of bidding documents (especially technical specifications),
evaluation of bids and selection of contractors, engineering design, installation, testing,
commissioning, and quality control. The PIU cleared all invoices with ME to ensure their
consistency with the project's physical progress. The PIU exchanged all contractual and financial
information with ME.

The agencies executing the heating component also had their project teams, involved with on-
site project activities, and had similar working arrangements with the PIU as ME.




                                                46
Evaluation of Borrower and Bank performance

Bank. The overall Bank performance in preparing and supervising the project was Highly
Satisfactory. The project's primary objectives were well defined from the beginning and the
project's components fit well with those objectives and responded to the needs of the country
experiencing difficult transition period. During the project's implementation, the Bank team was
very professional and committed, providing continuous assistance in all the issues related to the
implementation, and worked very efficiently in close contact with the MEPIU team and with
Government officials. The Bank team contributed to obtaining a significant amount of grants
additionally to the IDA credits.

Borrower. Strong Government commitment and interest was continuously expressed. The
valuable endorsement of it is the fact that the Vice Prime Minister of Moldova is heading the
MEPIU Supervising Board. During the first years the meeting of the Supervision Board was not
always regularly held due to the permanent changes in the Government structure. At the end of
the project the sessions of the Supervision Board were held according to the set schedule.

        The MEPIU was the main coordinating unit for Project implementation, and worked
diligently on all the aspects of the project's execution. The fact that MEPIU was established as
separate entity made possible avoiding negative impact of frequent changes in the Government/
Branch ministries, as well as in the Beneficiaries’ management. Following strictly the provisions
of the Operation Manual allowed the MEPIU to avoid pressures and difficulties during the
Project execution. The Operation Manual was created at the Project pilot phase with the joint
efforts of the Bank's team and MEPIU staff, and updated to reflect the necessary changes/
improvements the working procedures. The MEPIU team worked enthusiastically on project
implementation, was dedicated to ensuring beneficiaries’ participation in the project, and worked
well with the Bank and with other donors who also took part in the project.

Environment

I. Power component transmission network rehabilitation:

       PCBs. The environmental assessment carried out in the context of the Energy II Project
preparation indicated that no appreciable adverse environmental impacts would result from the
implementation of the proposed electricity system upgrades. However, the PCB follow-up study
concluded that one important environment problem associated with open-air substations is the
presence of PCBs in capacitor fluid and there are about 20,000 capacitors at substations in
Moldova amounting to a total of 240,000 liters of hazardous substance in the country.

        Because removal of the capacitors or renewal of the old ones was not envisioned under
the project, there were included measures to secure the sites with capacitors, which may contain
PCBs, by providing lockable containers for leaking capacitor tins in Vulcanesti and other
substations where leaking capacitor tins were found. For this purpose, ME manufactured, from
own financial means, a series of containers for storage of old condenser tins.




                                               47
         In July 2004, Moldova received a GEF Grant of 0.33 million US Dollars for preparation
of Sustainable Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) Stockpiles Management Program, that
included physical mitigation measures for appropriate disposal of old PCB-containing condenser
batteries. From the total value of the grant, US$ 2.46 million were allocated for ME for securing
its sites with capacitors which may contain PCBs. All the works related to condenser batteries
dismantle, packing and transportation for incineration, as well as excavation of those two pits at
Vulcanesti substation, and other 4 contaminated locations (at 2 substations), identified during the
performed inventory, were completed.

         ME performed during the years 2008-2010 works related to environmental upgrade
measures, from their own means, as follows: designing, manufacture, where it was necessary,
and repair of oil collectors and dripping-pans under the oil-based equipment, overhaul of oil-
based circuit-breakers and power transformers, repair and/or replacement of oil-based bushings
by dry ones, replacement of the fire-fighting pipeline at the Straseni 330 kV substation, planting
of greenery at Vulcanesti 400 kV substation, replacement of gravel under the oil-based
equipment, tamping of the artesian well at the Straseni 330 kV substation, etc., amounting to a
total of 3.5 million MDL (USD equiv. approx. 270 thousand).

       The EMP activities with regard to PCBs have been fully implemented and even more,
complemented with a series of additional activities including final disposal of all known PCBs
containing and contaminated capacitors (about 19 thousand of capacitors with a total weight of
1300 tons), improving PCBs management, regulatory framework and institutional capacity
building, - activities not specified in the EMP.

II. Heating component:

        With regard to heating component the proposed subprojects have been largely
implemented as were requested in the EMP. In particular all newly constructed boilers provide
much higher energy efficiency, resulting also in lower emissions and reduction of fuel
consumption (the level of their NOx emissions is about 50-60ppm (only in some, earlier
commissioned installations, the level is slightly higher, but that can be fixed through yearly
maintenance), which is considerably lower than national standard of 120 ppm; the efficiency of
the new installed boilers reaches 92-94 %, while the efficiency of replaced coal boilers used to
be at the level of 40-45%).

        During the commissioning of each object in the Energy II Project, the Consultants have
on request from MEPIU performed individual performance tests in order to determine the
efficiency and emissions stated in the Contracts. In 2012, by the Project’s end the Consultants
performed site visits to several objects to receive feed-back from the Beneficiaries and systems’
operators, to evaluate the performance of the systems after several years of operation, the quality
of the systems’ maintenance. All Beneficiaries were pleased by their systems and they
encountered very little problems since the commissioning. There have been a few cases where
there was necessary to replace or modify the supplied equipment. The main environmental
impact of the stand-alone heat boilers were related to emissions of nitrogen oxide (NOx), and
carbon dioxide (CO2). NOx is an important input into the formation of ground-level ozone,
which also has a major environmental impact. The environmental benefits from this project are

                                                48
evident. Emissions of nitrogen oxides have been reduced by almost 60 tons annually, emissions
of sulfur oxides have gone from 21.4 tons per year to almost none. There are no emissions of
dust either; previously there was 1.5 tons every year. This has significantly improved air quality
in the involved communities. Yearly emissions of the greenhouse gas CO2 has been reduced by
over 26000 tons, which will benefit the global climate, and from which benefited the local
authorities (money transferred to the owner of the boiler plants, beneficiaries of the Carbon Fund,
and used by them for the objects’ maintenance). The environmental benefits from the Project
implementation are described in the Project Consultants’ Environmental report.

Lessons learnt

        The most important contract of the electricity component, SCADA and
Telecommunication, faced serious problems that affected the timely implementation of the
contract. The poor communication on technical issues between ME and its Contractor caused
delays, which jeopardized Project completion within the agreed time schedule. This was caused
by absence of qualified technical assistance, which was absolutely necessary for implementing
such a complex contract. In the future contract that should be avoided and TA shall be available
during the entire preparation and implementation period of complex contracts.

         The Project leverages funds with other donors (SIDA), which enhanced cooperation
among the donors, ensured better consistency of policy advice, and enhanced the impact of donor
activities. However, the necessity to coordinate actions of the donors results sometimes in the
necessity to eliminate negative consequences of uncoordinated donors' actions and delays. There
is a strong need in enhancing the Government’s role in coordination of the donors’ activities.

        The financing of the Project took into account the fact that financial recovery of the
sector was still going on, and the ability of the beneficiary organizations to co-finance the Project
was limited, especially in the heating sector. Thus, local financing contribution was kept
relatively low, which reduced the risk of implementation delays.

     The Pilot Activity offered useful experience for preparation and implementation of
investment projects within the heating component of the Energy II Project. It has shown that in
conditions of Moldova, decentralization of old heating systems, which are not functioning in
small towns, is a rational solution for heating supply. Using some elements of old centralized
systems, like buildings of former central heating substations, the amount of investments can be
reduced.

      Building heating plants with a capacity sufficient for supplying to both public and
residential buildings could be the main solution for heating in small towns with the condition that
the towns have a natural gas network and that the authorities are able and willing to improve the
management of the housing sector and collection of payments for heating services. The
willingness, insistence and enthusiasm of local authorities made a real difference in
implementation of heating component. One of the striking examples is the activity of the Mayor
of Ungheni, which ensured a considerable share of the success of the Ungheni Pilot Project. This
Pilot project, which formed a base for reorganizing and reconstruction of the heating systems
(decentralized district heating), included construction of block boiler plants for heat supply to

                                                 49
residential building and public institutions. Following the Activity, the municipality built other
10 new boiler plants that cover the needs of most of the public institutions and residential
consumers. So, a network of 14 boiler plants (including 4 built within the Project), with a total
capacity of 36.6 MW (including 12 MW – boiler plants built within the Project) are operated,
substantially reducing the cost of thermal energy. According to data from the municipality of
Ungheni the cost of heating for a square meter of residential area, supplied from the new systems
was in the heating season 2002-2003 (after the systems’ commissioning) 6.53 lei, compared to
12-14 lei in case of the old system supplied from an old oversized mazut boiler plant, and the
payment level is about 90% at present, compared to 30% in 1999 – the last year when the old
plant was operated. The positive experience in Ungheni has been used in other towns for
restructuring their heating systems (for example, in Stefan Voda and Anenii-Noi, where
residential buildings were also connected to the new boiler plants).

     At the Republican Center for Mother and Child (CMC) the heating systems only in two
small blocks out of 19 were modernized, due to insufficiency of funds. Later on, due to the
success of this contract implementation, the WB agreed to finance out of the SIDA’s Trust Fund
means another big department of CMC (9 blocks). We consider that an integral modernization
of big institutions would allow a more efficient use of funds through applying a complex
approach to solving all engineering issues, and obtaining lower prices for multiple or larger
contracts from the contractors.

      The practice showed that the procedures of coordination, approval of different documents
in the implementation process of investment projects require a certain period of time, which
cannot be reduced significantly. Thus, the complex contracts’ preparation and implementation
cycle cannot be smaller than about 18 months, and that shall be taken into account at the future
projects’ planning.

      Implementation of the contracts within the Heating Component has led to significant
economic effect. Initially the heating systems were very inefficient or missing. The main causes
were damaged thermal circuit of the buildings, and the condition of the buildings (which led to
losses of heating energy during wintertime). In order to enhance the project’s effect, at the stage
of project preparation energy efficiency measures were envisaged in several localities. However,
the underdeveloped civil construction market was not able to provide a sufficient number of
qualified companies. The state could start an advertisement company of such professions, study
the possibility to open (or recover the former existing) professional schools but at higher level,
develop incentives for increasing the attractiveness of such professions.

      At the same time, not all local authorities had found sufficient own means for buildings
rehabilitation before implementing the modernization of the heating systems. In result, the
buildings thermal rehabilitation was performed with delays, upon funds availability in the budget
of local authorities. The situation improved in 2011, when a sum of 25 mln lei from the state
budget was allocated for energy efficiency measures such as roof repair, replacement of
windows, walls insulation for several potential beneficiaries. It should be mentioned that the
Energy II project was the only one to largely implement modernization of engineering systems,
while measures for energy efficiency are implemented through other internationally financed



                                                50
projects as well. The activity of such related projects should be coordinated thoroughly by the
Government, to avoid duplication of activities from one part, and gap of it from another part.

      The implementation of the heating component has shown that successful realization of the
Bank financed projects leads to lowering the risks and increasing attractiveness of the further
investments. Besides, good results achieved under these projects urge the Beneficiaries to
undertake further steps in the same directions, increasing thereby the Projects sustainability. As
example can serve the Orhei District Hospital, that after implementation of contract for the
heating and DHW supply under the Energy II Project has obtain further investments from
different donors (German Energy Savings Fund, WB FISM Project, Moldova Ecological Fund),
and are implementing serious measures directed to enhancing energy efficiency: thermal
insulation of buildings, replacing old windows by energy-efficient ones, rehabilitation of the
roofs, installation of solar collectors for heating water during the non-heating period).

      At the monitoring of the heating component implementation difficulties were encountered
in determining certainly the reached value of performance indicators, due to the fact that a clear
base-line for comparison was missing (relevant data base missing at beneficiaries). Special care
shall be taken during eventual projects’ appraisal and design to ensure sound ground for M&E.

      The institutional framework for ensuring the viability of investments improving heating in
the household sector is presently weak in Moldova, particularly as concerns the legal basis of
home owner associations and the actual functional capacity of those home owner associations
that exist (which was proved by the failure of the attempt implementing rehabilitation of several
dwellings, project meant to be financed by SIDA). These are the fundamental reasons confirming
the focus of the heating component on public buildings, which provide services to all members of
the population, including some, such as kindergartens and schools.

      The implementation of the Heating Component has revealed a not quite adequate approach
to the principles of budgeting fuel costs for heating of public institutions, when the
meteorological conditions are not taken into consideration. Due to severe weather conditions of
the winter 2011-2012 several public institutions exhausted the funds allocated for the winter
before the end of the heating period. It would be reasonable allocating funds in local budgets for
heating not according to the number of pupils/visitors, but in dependence of the weather
conditions (and review/update annually by mid winter according to the actual needs).

Balance between the human factor and project performances should be revised. The project has
achieved significant results and impact, recognized by the government, audits, beneficiaries and
partners. In the same time it was done with a very low percentage of the operational costs. This
was done not only due to the high professionalism and management skills, but also due to right
planning.

Sustainability

       The Sustainability of the electrical component of the project is ensured by maintaining
ME tariffs at the cost-recovery level (which become possible after the ME fixed assets
revaluation, taken into account by ANRE when setting and updating the tariffs’ level) and

                                               51
ensuring continuous, with no risk of supply interruptions, operation of the enterprise (which
become possible after the measures implemented within the electrical component of the project).
A reduction in power system failure, including in disproportionately poor areas such as rural
locations, indicates also a social development.

        For the heating component, the increased quality of heating and hot water supply provided
to public buildings offering critical social services such as education and health services
resulted in beneficiaries’ satisfaction with the project as it is being implemented. The
Sustainability of the heating component is enhanced by selecting public buildings which will
continue to be used as schools and hospitals and financed by the central and/or local budgets. To
enhance the sustainability of the Project, special attention was paid to the ability of the agencies
involved to finance fuel and other operating and maintenance costs for heating systems
installed or upgraded by the project. Special provisions were included in the budget or
respective authorities/ beneficiaries.

       Besides, as described above in “Lessons Learnt?, the successful realization of the
Project leads to increasing attractiveness of the further investments in the objects, and creates
incentives for the Beneficiaries to undertake further steps in the same directions, increasing
thereby the Projects sustainability (as it is the case with the Orhei District Hospital, that after
implementation of the contract for the heating and DHW supply under the Energy II Project
has obtained investments from different donors for the hospital’s development).

       At the same time, the successful implementation of the project has ensured its
sustainability through the reached synergy of donors, that kindly agreed to finance similar
sub-projects for the objects, complementing the effect of the Energy II Project: the Bank
agreed to finance modernization of the heating and DHW systems in a big department of
CMC (9 blocks), and SIDA financed SI contracts (Heating, DHW systems) for three boarding
schools in Hânceşti, Cupcini, Telenesti (initially included in the Energy II Project); along with
modernization of similar engineering systems at the Tyrnova Children’s Tuberculosis
Rehabilitation Center.

        The sustainability of the installed under the Project facilities is high. The Plant and
equipment are of latest available design, high efficiency technologies and solutions, energy
class A (where applicable), include all safety and automation systems. If properly maintained,
they shall ensure the beneficiaries with quality power/heat supply at least for the next 15 years.
Besides these benefits, due to all measures undertaken, the beneficiaries will continue benefiting
from considerable energy savings of around 56% for the whole heating component, according to
the report of FVB consultants. Moreover, improved efficiency has, in itself, led to lower emissions
simply by less primary energy being used. Improved technology and use of cleaner fuels have
reduced emissions further. Reduction in CO2 emissions allow the beneficiaries receiving in the
present and in the future financial benefits through bonuses from the Moldova Carbon Fund.




                                                52
Emissions before and after ameliorative actions in the Energy II Project

 Pollutant                                      Old                    New                  Reduction
 NOx              Tons/year                     59,4                   9,8                  49,6
 SOx              Tons/year                     21,4                   -                    21,4
 Dust             Tons/year                     1.5                    -                    1,5
 CO2              Thousand tons/year            41,8                   15,8                 26,0

To ensure proper implementation and post-implementing activities the Beneficiaries have been
provided appropriate training by the foreign consultants, assisting the project, MEPIU, Contractors.
They cooperated with contractors and with the PIU at all stages- preparation of technical
specifications, evaluation of bids and selection of contractors, installation, testing, commissioning,
and quality control. They obtained sufficient training for successful post-implementing operation,
maintenance of Plants/ equipment and book-keeping (through ad-hock special training sessions/
workshops for local authorities and beneficiaries, and through side-by-side common activities with
the consultants, Contractors, MEPIU).

      At the project initial stage, the tendering and implementation of complex WB Supply and
Install contracts were facing specific difficulties because of insufficient level of local contractors
(lack of experience as main contractor in contracts of similar size and nature, knowledge of
relevant standards, languages, etc.). Before the project they had acted, in fact, only as sub-
contractors, with no access to international market. By the Project completion we have here, in
Moldova, a group of serious contractors, able to perform properly within future complex contracts,
with extensive international market connections, showing sufficient qualification, extensive
knowledge and experience.

      Having an operational PIU at the early stage of Project implementation proved to be an
efficient measure. In order to ensure the sustainability and coordination of different project/
improvements in the energy sector it is reasonable maintaining a readily available PIU in the
sector, to be eventually activated on as-needed basis.

      The TA component helped to increase the participation in international project assignments
of the local experts, which ensured a further capacity building within the relevant professional
groups and general capacity within the relevant public institutions.




                                                 53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                         54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   •   Project Appraisal Document, Moldova Energy II, October 30, 2003.
   •   Development Credit Agreement between IDA and the Republic of Moldova, dated
       December 4, 2003.
   •   Project Agreement between IDA and ME, dated December 4, 2003.
   •   Financing Agreement for Additional Financing for Energy II Project, between IDA and
       the Republic of Moldova, dated March 16, 2009.
   •   Amendments to the Legal Documents
   •   Supplemental Letter No. 2 (for Credit No. 3833-MD, Republic of Moldova, dated
       December 4, 2003), Supplemental Letter No. 5 (for Credit No. 3833-MD, ME, dated
       December 4, 2003), and Supplemental Letter No. 2 (for Credit No. 4541-MD, Republic
       of Moldova) on Performance Monitoring Indicators.
   •   Project Paper for Additional Financing.
   •   Restructuring Project Paper.
   •   Mission Aide-Memoires.
   •   Implementation Status and Results Reports (1-16)
   •   MEPIU Quarterly Progress Reports on Moldova Energy II Project (Cr. 3833-MD and Cr.
       4541-MD), Moldova Energy Sector Reform and Efficiency Project: SIDA/WB TF
       099139.
   •   “Keeping People Warm and Lights On?, Results Brief and video of Moldova Energy II
       Project, Improving the Lives of People in Europe and Central Asia.
   •   “Technical Final Report for the Energy II Project in Moldova?, FVB, February 8, 2012.
   •   “Environmental Report for the Energy II Project in Moldova?, FVB. February 8, 2012.
   •   “Annual Monitoring Report 2011 of emission reductions of CDM project: Moldova
       Energy Conservation and Greenhouse Gases Emission Reduction?, Ministry of
       Environment of the Republic of Moldova, Carbon Finance Unit, Republic of Moldova,
       2011.




                                            55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 39318
                               27°E                                                          28°E                                                       29°E                                                           30°E



                                                                                                      UKRAINE                                                                             MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                                     ENERGY II PROJECT AND
                                  Dnes                                                       To Vinnytsya
                                       tr
                            To Chernivtsi



                                                     Ocnita
                                                                                   Moghiliov-
                                                                                   Podolski
                                                                                                                     To Vinnytsya                    ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                             Briceni                                                                                                                 SIDA TA AND COFINANCING
        To
                                                                       Donduseni                                                                    FOR THE HEATING COMPONENT
     Chernivtsi                             Edinet                        Tyrnova
                                                         Cupcini                                     Soroca

                                                                                    Drochia
       48°N                                                                                                                                 Camenca                                                                                               48°N
                                                             Rîscani

                                                                                                     Floresti                                         Nist
                                                                                                                                                             ru
                                                 Costesti                                                                             Soldanesti
                                                                                                                                          ˘
                                                                        330/110 kV
                                                                 Glodeni                    Balti                                                                 Rîbnita
                                                                                                                                                Rezina
                                                         Balatina
                                                     Pr                                                     Sîngerei
                                                        ut
                                                                                                                                                                                           To Voznesens'k
                                                                    Falesti
                                                                     ˘
                                                                                                                         Telenesti       Chiperceni                                                   0        10      20      30     40 Kilometers


                                                                                                                                                                                                      0             10          20         30 Miles
                        R O MANIA                                       Sculeni                                                                     Orhei
                                                                                                                                                      Dubasari
                                                                                                                                                         ˘                     TRANSNISTRIA
                                               To Pascani                                                  Calarasi
                                                                                                            ˘˘                                           Criuleni
                                                                                   Ungheni                                              330/110 kV
                                                                                                                          Straseni
                                                                                                                             ˘                                                     Grigoriopol
                                                                                             Nisporeni                                                ˘
                                                                                                                                                    Stauceni                                                           To Zhmerynka
                                                                                                                                                                            Corjova

       47°N                                                                                                                                               ˘
                                                                                                                                                    CHISINAU                                                                                      47°N
                                                                                                                             330/110 kV
                                                                                                                                                                                  110/35/10 kV
                                                                                                                ˘
                                                                                                               Lapusna                          Ialoveni
                                                                                                                                                                   Anenii                        Tiraspol
                                                                                                                                                                     Noi
                                                                                                                         Hîncesti                                               Bender
                                                                                                             Leuseni
                                                                                                                                                                              (Tighina)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Slobozia


                                                                                                                                                          ˘
                                                                                                                                                         Cainari
                                                                                                                                                                                          Causeni
                                                                                                                                                                                           ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Odesa
                                                                                                                                                                             Plain
                                                                                                                                     Cimislia
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                               c                                             ˘N
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Stefan-Voda       ist
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                 To Birlad                                                                  ea                                                            ru
                                                                                                                                                    g




Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                Leova
                                                                                                                                                Bu




endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                               Comrat                        Basarabeasca
                           27°E
                                                                                            To
                                                                                          Birlad
                                                                                                              Cantemir
                                                                                                                                      ˘ ˘
                                                                                                                                     GAGAUZIA
                                                                                                                                                                                          UKRAINE
             ELECTRICITY COMPONENT OF THE PROJECT:
             MAJOR MOLDELECTRICA HIGH-VOLTAGE SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                        Ceadîr-                              To Artsyz
             HEATING COMPONENT OF THE PROJECT:                                                                                           Lunga

             PROJECT SITES                                                                46°N                                                                                                                                                    46°N
                                                                                                    Prut




             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                       Cahul                       Taraclia
             AUTONOMOUS TERRITORIAL UNIT
             CAPITALS                                                                                                                                 ˘ ˘
                                                                                                                                                     GAGAUZIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MOLDOVA
             RAIONS OR MUNICIPALITIES
             CAPITALS*                                                                                          ˘
                                                                                                            Vulcanesti

             NATIONAL CAPITAL
             RIVERS
             MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                 To Imayil
             RAILROADS
             AUTONOMOUS TERRITORIAL UNIT                                               To Bucharest
             BOUNDARIES                                                               and Constanta

             RAIONS OR MUNICIPALITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                 Black
             BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sea
             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
  *Names of the raions or municipalities are identical to their capitals.                  28°E                                                            29°E                                                               30°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JUNE 2012
