Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24402
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39450)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$34 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
05/30/2002
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 8, 2002)
Currency Unit = US DOLLARS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACE           Community Education Association
(Asociaci6n Comunalpara la Educaci6n)
APL           Adaptable Program Lending
CAPS          Basic Education Leadership Training Program
(Capacitaci6n de Lideres de Educaci6n Basica)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEC           Education Training Centers
(Centro Educativo de Capacitaci6n)
CDE           School Management Council
(Consejo Directivo Escolar)
EDUCO         Community-manged Schools Program
(Educaci6n con la Participaci6n de la Comunidad)
EMDE          Escuelas Modelos de Desarrollo Educativo
GOES          Government of El Salvador
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB           Inter-Arnerican Development Bank
MINED         Ministry of Education
(Ministeria de Educaci6n)
NGO           Nongovemmental Organizations
SAFI          Sistema de AdministraciOn Financiera Integrada
SIRH          sistema de informaci6n de recursos humanos
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:  Ana Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Joel Reyes



EL SALVADOR
SV- BASIC EDUCATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 16
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         30
Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorsALog Frame Matrix                               31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              44
Annex 8. Quality at Entry Elements                                                 45
Annex 9. Stated and Actual Project Goals by Subcomponent                           47
Annex 10. EDUCO                                                                    55






Project ID: P007169                                        Project Name: SV- BASIC EDUCATION
Team Leader: Joel E. Reyes                                 TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SV- BASIC EDUCATION                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-39450
Country/Department: EL SALVADOR                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/22/1993                              Effective:                    02/29/1996
Appraisal:  02/28/1995                                MTR: 09/30/1998
Approval:  09/28/1995                               Closing: 06/30/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/Ministerio de Educaci6n (MINED)
Other Partners: Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:       David De Ferranti                         Javeed Burki
Country Manager:      D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                       Edilberto L. Segura
Sector Manager:       Ana Maria Arriagada                       Kye Woo Lee
Team Leader at ICR:   Joel Reyes                                Madalena Dos Santos
ICR Primary Author:   Eveling Berrnudez; Joel Reyes;
Annabella Morales; Denise
Vaillant
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HIJN=Hlghly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to promote greater equity, quality and efficiency in the provision of education services
by: (a) improving access to education; (b) improving education quality in both academic achievement
(output) and learning environment (education inputs); and (c) strengthening the managerial, financial and
administrative capacity of the Ministry of Education (MINED) to set policies and guidelines for the sector
and deliver public education services.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following components:
A. Expansion of Access to Preschool and Basic Education (US$12.5 million or 15.6 percent of original
project costs). This component financed civil works, materials, and technical assistance to: (a) support the
expansion of the Community-Managed Schools Program (EDUCO) to regions that were educationally
underserved, including rehabilitation of school infrastructure and provision of school furniture in rural
schools; and (b) strengthen the EDUCO model through technical assistance.
B. Improvement of Quality in Preschool Education and Basic Education f(US$49.2 million or 61.3
percent of original project costs). This component financed technical assistance, training, equipment and
materials to support: (a) curriculum development; (b) the production and distribution of educational
materials such as textbooks, didactic materials, and classroom libraries; (c) the provision of training and
assistance for teacher, supervisors and principals; (d) the development of an education assessment system;
and (e) the development of a school health and nutrition program.
C.Institutional Modernization and Strengthening (US$13.3 million or 16.6 percent of original project
costs). This component financed technical assistance, consultant's services, equipment and materials to
support: (a) the modernization of the MINED through the establishment of a new organizational structure
and a revision of the educational sector legal framework; (b) the improvement of MINED's management
systems is the areas of planning, information, communication, monitoring and evaluation; (c) the revision
of the system of performance incentives for teachers and technical staff; (d) improvements in school
supervision; (e) the establishment of a staff development program; (f) the design and implementation of a
communications program; and (g) the creation of a pilot basic education fund program.
D. Coordination and Administration (US$4.83 million or 6.0 percent of original project costs). This
component financed consultant services, technical assistance, and incremental operating costs related to the
managing of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no changes in the project components. In response to the school infrastructure needs and
replacement of educational materials posed by Hurricane Mitch, additional resources were included in the
respective components. For civil works, the original budget projected at appraisal increased from US$6.6
million to US$11.1 million. Since these type of expenditures were already contemplated in the legal
agreements of both IBRD and IDB, no amendments were needed, only a reallocation across expenditure
categories.
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry was rated highly satisfactory on account of: (i) the clear objectives of the
project, which were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the government's education
policy objectives; (ii) the strong ownership by all relevant stakeholders; (iii) consistency between project
design and the institutional capacity in the education sector for implementation; (iv) a preparation process
that was thorough and based on reliable informnation pertaining to the education sector, and the poverty and
financial conditions of the country; (v) effective donor coordination and cooperation; (vi) a fully
participatory preparation process, involving extensive consultations with intended beneficiaries and other
key stakeholders; (v) meaningful cross sectoral linkages; and (vi) judicious use of the experience of prior
Bank-financed projects in El Salvador, notably the Social Sector Rehabilitation Project, and that of other
education projects worldwide. In retrospect, basing the fiscal impact analysis on only one scenario can be
sited as the only design weakness. More detailed information and analysis for the rating of quality at entry
is provided in Annex 8.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of development objectives is considered satisfactor1 based on the following principal
project outcomes: (i) increased access to preschool and primary education services in rural communities,
including increased 6th grade completion by rural students; (ii) perceived positive trends in education
quality measured by primary student achievement scores (albeit, it is still too early to measure full impact
and further gains are needed as the baseline was extremely low prior to project implementation); (iii) lower
dropout and coverage rates, and reduced repetition rates (nonetheless, repetition rates did not fully reach
reduced levels expected during project design); and (iv) improved managerial, financial, and administrative
capacity in the education sector. These outcomes are explained in more detail below.
Objective 1: Greater Access to Education Services. The project aimed at expanding access to
preschool and basic education services in rural areas. In 1993, preschool enrollment in rural areas was
only 32 percent, compared to 68 percent in urban areas. Similarly, basic education enrollment in rural
areas was only 45 percent, compared to 55 percent in urban areas. Gross enrollment in rural areas in
grades 1-6 increased by over 26 percentage points as a result of the project, from 104.1 in 1993 to 132 in
2000. Increased enrollment in rural areas significantly affected national enrollment figures, as indicated in
Table 1 below.
Table 1. Evolution of Enrollment Rates
lYear                     P'eschool                     Basic Educatin (Grades 1-9)
i  ! -  .  *EnrollmenieE ~   Nett   x -.  Enrollineiit  ross Rate(%)
1993             113,440      I      27.23            1,051,476            86.0
2000             203,133              44.0            1,207,494            96.0
Soure: MINED, Direccifn Nacional de Evaluaci6n, and 'En el Camino de la Transformaci6n Educativa de El Salvador, 1989-1999.
A key problem in the provision of education services was that rural schools often did not cover the entire
primary education cycle. As a result of the project, coverage to 6 grade in rural areas expanded and the
number of students who finished primary education increased dramatically, as shown in Table 2.
- 3 -



Table 2. Number of Students Comp leting Grade 6th
Year                                     Grade 6th Graduates
Nurnber of Students               Increase (%/)'
1996                           95,212                           93.9
1998                           102,232                          95.0
2000                           110,559                          93.8
Source: MINED
Objective 2. Improved Quality of Education. Academic achievement test scores show a positive trend,
in both 3rd grade and 6th grade in all core subject areas. However, the observed improvement is still
modest, as indicated in Table 3, since it is too early to assess full impact of project interventions in terms of
test scores and the baseline prior to the project interventions (1995/96) was extremely low (with average
scores between 20 and 30% in all core subject areas). In general, standardized test scores are still low in El
Salvador (between 30% and 50% in all core subjects; in Mathematics, scores for 6th graders continue to
show volatile-sporadic higher and lower-scores). Thus, on-going education reform investments will
continue to focus on improving education quality throughout the system.
Table 3. Standardized National Test Scores 1995-1998 (Maximum score = 10)
Spanish          Mathematics       Social Sciences  Science, Health and
Enviromnent
Year/Grade         3        6         3        6         3        6         3         6
1995           2.0       na       3.8       na       3.6       na       3.8       na
1996           1.9       2.2      4.0       2.9      4.0       3.6      3.9       4.8
1998           4.2      2.7       4.0       1.S      5.1       3.5      5.4       36
Source: MINED, Direcci6n Nacional de Evaluacion.
Note: Test Scores are available for 2001, but the methodology has changed and results are not comparable with those of earlier years.
Objective 3. Improved Education Efficiency. The project aimed at reducing dropout, repetition rates,
and overage students, this last indicator primarily related to late enrollment in first grade and subsequent
repetition. As shown in Table 4, all three indicators show a positive trend (reductions) as a result of the
Project. Further gains in these key education indicators are being addressed through the on-going
Education Reform Project.
Table 4. Trend in Education Efficiency Indicators 1993-2000(%)
Dropout Rate (Grades 1-6)    Repetit ion Rate (Grades 1-6)      Overage Students
Year        Rural      Urban        Rural      Urban        Total      Grade 1   Grades 1-6
1993         9          2.1         9.1         6.2         7.6         29.2        35.6
2000          1           1          7.7         5.4         6.7        23.5        27.9
Source. MINED, Direcci6n Nacional de Evaluaci6n. Dropout Rates are approximate aggregates from different sources.
Objective 4. Strengthening the managerial, financial and administrative capacity of MINED.
Decentralization to the school and community levels was the key strategy to strengthen the management,
financial and administrative capacity of the education system in El Salvador. A financial decentralization
strategy for all schools (urban and rural) was emulated based on the success of the first community-led
education program in rural areas EDUCO. Three types of school grants (called bonos escolares) were
originally transferred to school governments and community education councils to self-manage
improvements in education quality, school rehabilitation and human resources. School grants were further
expanded to support teacher training, school health and nutrition, and children and youth extracurricular
- 4 -



activities, among others. Approximately US$9 million dollars in grants annually are now managed by
schools. As for EDUCO, the program is fully sustained by the Government with an annual financial
allocation representing 10.5 percent of the MINED budget (Table 5).
Table 5. Financial transfers to EDUCO schools (US$ mion equivalent)
Year         Preschool    Basic Education    Total'      As % of GOES  As % of MINED
. ____________  . ___v __- _____                  Budget         Budget
1996           6.80           15.42          22.22           1.30           9.32
1997           8.01           18.94          26.95           1.54           9.64
1998           8.24           22.09          30.34           1.60           9.75
1999           9.19           24.61          33.80           1.73           10.10
2000            9.59          29.02          38.61           1.85           9.98
2001           10.87          34.21          45.07           2.03           10.51
Source: MINED, Financial Department, February 2002.
The community and school-based management of public funds proved to be a cost-effective and flexible
strategy for the provision of educational services. For example, after the earthquakes of January and
February 2001, more than US$8 million (provided by the Government and other sources) were transferred
to community and school councils for the rehabilitation of damaged school infrastructure. Also, in addition
to these efficiency gains, parental involvement also proved an effective instrument to reduce absenteeism of
teachers and students. Studies show that on an average four-week period, EDUCO students only miss 1.6
days of school and teachers are present 5 days a week. Additional information on the benefits of parental
involvement in schools is given in Annex 9.
The school-based management and community participation strategy did contribute to reductions in
MINED's central administrative load. A study carried out during project implementation, estimated that
inputs from community-based management represented 28 percent of the time that would be required by a
centralized provision of the same services now delivered by parents, as shown in Table 6.
Table 6. Educational Functions Managed by Parents in EDUCO Schools
Function                              Estimated Person/Hours/Per
Year
Management Training                                                         200
Bank Account Management                                                      16
Payment of Teacher Salaries and Social Security                              96
Purchase of Consumable Materials for Classrooms                              72
Advisory Consultations with School Supervisors and District and Regional     120
Coordinators
Community and School Council Meetings and Assemblies                         180
School Visits and Supervision                                                360
Total per year:        1,044
Source: MINED, "La Autonomia Escolar y el Progrmna EDUCO," presented at the World Bank Workshop on Community Dnven Development,
Washington, D.C., November 2001.
Finally, with respect to policy reforms supported by the project, the most important are:
*   The Education Law of 1996 which includes provisions for parental involvement in school
administration and supervision (Articles 67, 69 and 92);
*   The Teacher Statute and Regulations of 1996, which provide for the participation of principals,
- 5 -



teachers, parents and students in the administration of the school (Decree No. 655, Articles 43, 48,
49 and 57); and
*   The operational regulations of the Statute which specify the norms and guidelines for the creation,
organization, and operation of community and school-based education committees (see Annex I for
more details.)
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Expansion of Access to Preschool and Basic Education (US$17.5 million or 23 percent of total
project cost) Rating: Highlv Satisfactory. This component is rated highly satisfactory, based on the
achievements indicated below.
A.1 Expansion of Access to Preschool and Basic Education. The implementation of this component was
highly satisfactory. Student enrollment in rural areas increased by 30 percent at the preschool level and by
70 percent at the basic education level as a result of EDUCO community participation and management
strategy. The observed increase represents almost 90 percent of all new rural enrollment during the project
implementation period. To increase rural coverage, this sub-component financed 5,139 new EDUCO
sections with approximately 30 students each, exceeding the appraisal target of 3,070 by 67 percent (see
Table 7, below).
Table 7. Expansion of EDUCO Sections
Year                New EDUCO Sections               Total           Cumulative
Project Financed  GOES Financed
1991               0                263               263               263
1992               0                746               746              1,009
1993               0                302               302              1,311
1994               0               1,005             1,005             2,316
1995              1,238              0               1,238             3,554
1996              1,725              0               1,725             5,279
1997              783                0                783              6,062
1998              386                0                386              6,448
1999              967                0                967              7,415
2000               40               819               859              8,274
2001               0                1,411            1,411             9,685
Total             5,139            4,546             9,685
Source: MINED.
The original component sought to convert traditional rural schools to the EDUCO model. However,
conversion took place only in "mixed" schools (i.e., schools that had both traditional and EDUCO
teachers). The legal framework did not allow for an easy transformation of traditional schools to the
EDUCO system and for reallocation of teachers who had been hired under the traditional norms and
regulations. Nonetheless, in total 418 schools were converted from "mixed" to EDUCO. EDUCO is no
longer a project, but a formal school modality fully mainstreamed into the education system. As such, the
government continues to invest in the expansion of EDUCO. Annex 9 and 10 provide additional
information on the achievements of this subcomponent.
A.2 Strengthening the EDUCO Program. This subcomponent is rated highly satisfactory. The
subcomponent financed technical assistance to strengthen the administrative capacity of EDUCO's
community education associations (Asociaci6n Comunal para la Educaci6n -ACE). Various studies have
shown that strengthening the EDUCO program had a positive impact on: (i) the transparency in the
- 6 -



management of education resources; (ii) school attendance of teachers and students; (iii) supportive
relations between teachers and parents; and (iv) the development of community capacity to form alliances
among different social programs. Technical assistance, training and supervision were provided through
Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) and other private organizations. More details on the achievements
of this subcomponent are provided in Annex 9 and Annex 10 (Annex 10 provides a brief description of
EDUCO and its impact).
B. Improvement of Quality in Preschool Education and Basic Education (US$39.19 million or 50.9
percent of total project costs). Rating: Satisfactorv. This component was successful in supporting five
basic inputs to improve the quality of basic education, namely: (a) curriculum development; (b) production
and distribution of educational materials such as textbooks, didactic materials, and classroom libraries; (c)
training and technical assistance for teachers, supervisors and principals; (d) the development of an
education assessment system; and (e) the development of a school health and nutrition program.
B.1 The curriculum development subcomponent aimed to: (i) adapt learning objectives and core
curriculum contents to the preschool level; (ii) revise the curriculum for the 3rd cycle of basic education
(grades 7, 8 and 9); (iii) develop a multigrade pilot program in EDUCO schools; and (iv) establish a new
student promotion system. These goals were successfully achieved. The curriculum of preschool in rural
areas was designed taking into account the context were rural children grow, proving a successful
adaptation. The core curriculum for the 3rd cycle of basic education was substantially improved based on
findings of education needs-assessments and utilizing the experience of both El Salvador and other Latin
American countries. Tests were conducted at a pilot level, to provide feedback from local communities.
Once evaluated and refined, the new curriculum was implemented nationwide. The new curriculum for the
3rd cycle provided a standard basic education graduate profile.
The multigrade pilot program for EDUCO schools, was developed with participation of EDUCO
communities (parents, teachers, and community members). Key project-financed activities included:
coordinating the curriculum design process, establishing team of specialists, supporting and strengthening
information sharing efforts with other pilots in Latin America, designing monitoring and evaluation criteria
for curriculum proposals, and promoting the development of self-learning tools for children. The resulting
multigrade program was well received in EDUCO schools.
At all levels, curriculum improvement emphasized the role of the teacher as facilitator and guide, placing
the experience of the students at the center of the learning process, giving priority to creative student work
at various levels, and ensuring a flexible, multi-disciplinary approach to curriculum development.
Moreover, curriculum support investments included school and classroom libraries, educational guides and
toolkits, radio links, and advice from qualified professionals. In addition to the basic core subjects,
curricula have been developed for the areas of human rights, environmental education and population.
Today, El Salvador has a curriculum development framework for all levels and modalities of the education
system -- from preschool to secondary education, including study plans and programs for each level, cycle
and thematic area. The sustainability of the benefits generated by the curriculum reform is evident in the
commitment of the Government to continue the process. In fact, the MINED 10 year plan highlights
specific activities that will be undertaken to complete curriculum reform, particularly aimed at
strengthening (i) physical education through promotion campaigns and after-school sports and recreational
activities; (ii) youth development through art festivals, vocational programs, psychological orientation and
outreach; (iii) special education through curriculum integration, adequate classrooms facilities, and teacher
training; and (iv) considering further curriculum strengthening proposals presented by different education
centers for each modality and cycle.
-7 -



B.2 The textbooks and instructional materials subcomponent was highly satisfactory in supporting the
design, production and distribution of a large number of quality educational materials. Most appraisal
targets were surpassed (see Table 8, below).
Table 8 Educational Materials Produced and Distributed
Educational Materials                 Appraisal      Actual         % of
Target                    Appraisal
Instructional booklets for preschool                    807,000       427,700        53.0
Textbooks for 1st cycle (grades 1-3)                   2,528,000     3,900,000      154.3
Workbooks for grade 1                                  1,391,000     1,196,000       86.0
Textbooks for 2nd cycle (grades 4-6)                   1,082,000     2,710,000      250.5
Textbooks for 3rd cycle (grades 7-9)                    521,000       741,760       142.4
Classroom libraries                                      3,349         3,500        104.5
Science kits for 3rd cycle                                202          202          100.0
Source: MINED
As part of the teachers' capacity-building process, manuals on environmental education, social values, and
human rights, were designed, produced, and distributed. Approximately twenty thousand copies were
distributed to all teachers, corresponding to one manual per teacher, per cycle. In 1996, over thirty
thousand copies of the "Fundamentals of the National Curriculum" were produced and distributed, thus
main streaming the curriculum requirements for preschool, basic educational and secondary education. In
1998, leaming evaluation guides were produced and distributed to all basic education teachers, with
information on evaluation techniques from grades 1 through 9. In 1997 a large number of dictionaries were
distributed to teachers, along with classroom libraries. Annex 9 provides additional details about the
educational materials produced with project support.
Besides the successful production and distribution of educational materials, this subcomponent also
established a tri-partnership network (MINED, private sector, and communities) to provide guidance in the
use of educational materials and to ensure efficient distribution and timely arrival of materials to the
classrooms. To reinforce the positive impact of quality educational materials, the project also supported
the gradual introduction of technology at different educational levels, involving interactive radio,
television-based learning, and Learning Resources Centers.
B.3 The in-service teacher training subcomponent was rated satisfactory in providing technical
assistance and training for preschool and basic education teachers, systematically exceeding appraisal
targets (see Table 9). Training was provided by an alliance between the technical staff of MINED and
local universities. The training process improved not only teacher's skills, but also the support system for
teachers in the classroom, redefining the role of the principal in helping teachers, and fostering improved
collaboration among teachers. Despite, these achievements, the subcomponent did experience a few
implementation shortcomings, such as: inadequate logistic support to reproduce training materials;
insufficient access to high quality training materials; scheduling problems due to other obligation of the
technical staff of the MiNED; and administrative complexity due to the large number of training requests
coming from the schools. Nevertheless, an in-service training system was established, including the
creation of three regional training centers, which contributed to improved local responsiveness to teacher
training needs. The Govemment continues to address the issue of in-service teacher training, securing
pertinent training materials, creating specialized training libraries, increasing school involvement in teacher
training planning and decision making, and ensuring adequate logistic support, supervision and follow-up
of the training process.
-8 -



Table 9 In-Service Teacher Training Activities
Appraisal,                                     % of
II service training for:    Targets                Actual               Appraisal
Multigrade teachers         3,200                  3,292                 102.9
Preschool teachers          3,600                 14,210                 394.7
Cycle I and 2 teachers       30,000                71,259                 237.5
Cycle 3 teachers           5,800                 16,929                 291.9
Source: MINED.
B.4 The education assessment system subcomponent was rated satisfactory in laying the foundation for a
national student achievement evaluation system, especially as it provided a national uniform criteria to
determine the basic academic competences to be achieved at the end of each basic education cycle.
Furthermore, the subcomponent created awareness among teachers, parents and students regarding the
value of continuous evaluation for the improvement of the quality of education. Achievement tests were
applied throughout project implementation, surpassing in some cases the appraisal targets (Table 10).
Table 10 Student Learning Achievement Tests Applied
Test                  Grade               SAR Target               Actual
Core Subjects \1                3&6                     4                      4
Core Subjects                    9                      4                      4
Readiness                                    [          2                      4
Readiness                        3                      2                      4
1/ Core Subjects are Spanish, Mathematics, Social Sciences, and Science, Health and Environment.
Source: MINED
Although the subcomponent met its quantitative targets, substantial work remains to be done in order to
consolidate the national evaluation system. MINED is strengthening the system by improving the process
of data collection, systematization the analysis of education indicators, streamlining the achievement tests,
consolidating data which can be used to monitor progress in specific program areas; designing and applying
measurements of institutional management; and expanding the analytical work to provide periodic feedback
to policy makers on the quality of education. In addition to test application, four secondary education
studies were conducted in collaboration with local universities.
B.5 The school health and nutrition subcomponent succeeded in increasing awareness and changing
health and nutrition practices in the school community. The program aimed at expanding and improving
school health and nutrition program in 135 municipalities, expanding an earlier experience in 78
municipalities with support of the Ministry of Health and MINED. The program incorporated nutrition
and health education into the school curriculum; providing vitamin A, iodine supplements, and
anthelminthic treatment to students; identifying visually and hearing impaired children and taking remedial
action; developing school feeding mechanisms to overcome the logistic difficulties of on-going programs;
and providing iron supplementation on a pilot scale. This ambitious program was successfully carried out,
first on a reduced scale, benefitting 20 municipalities, 124 schools and approximately 26,000 students, and
subsequently expanded (in 1999) to cover all schools in the most marginal rural and urban areas,
benefitting 262 municipalities and approximately 600,000 preschool and basic education students.
Sustainability of this program is highly likely, considering that it has been mainstreamed into the regular
education programs and the ten governmental agencies involved are committed to its goals, having achieved
a remarkable level of inter-institutional coordination. An impact evaluation done in 1997 has shown that
the nutritional and hygiene changes promoted by the program have been clearly reflected in a healthier
school population as well as in attitudinal changes among parents and teachers.
-9-



C. Institutional Modernization and Strengthening (US$16.45 million or 21.3 percent of total project
costs). Rating: Satisfactory. This component succeeded in achieving its objectives of reorganizing the
MINED in lines with a decentralization strategy directly at the school and community level. The
component as well carried out a pilot basic education fund program, which studied the support of NGOs
and other institutions, such as universities, in the delivery of education services. The performance of each
of the subcomponents is described below.
C.1.   Modernization of the MINED (and school-based management). The subcomponent's strategy
was highly satisfactory. At the start of the Project, MINED had an over centralized structure and could not
reach schools effectively. At the same time, the pilot of the EDUCO model (1991-93) had shown that
communities education councils ACE could be active partners in the management of schools, identifying
school needs, contracting and delivering services, and guaranteeing basic education inputs.  The
Government, through the support of this Project, mainstreamed the elements of school-based management
and community participation in all schools in the country. In traditional (non-EDUCO) schools, school
management councils formed by parents, teachers and principals (called Consejo Directivo Escolar -
CDEs) were created with legal status to manage public funds. Gradually, previously centralized functions
were transferred to the ACE and CDE, including purchasing of educational materials, school maintenance,
school administration, and more recently some forms of teacher training and extracurricular activities for
children and youth. Each transferred function was supported by financial transfers in the form of grants
(called bonos escolares). School grants amount to approximately US$9 million a year and each school
receives financial transfers corresponding to its identified need and school size.  Finally, although
traditional schools could not directly hire teachers as their EDUCO counterparts, the Government did
transfer to them the initial selection and short-listing of suitable candidates. School-based management and
autonomy has become an inherent part of the organization of education in El Salvador.
Parallel to the decentralization of functions to the school level, this subcomponent supported the
redefinition of the mission of MINED as a normative and policy making body responsible for guiding the
system and ensuring quality control and accountability. Functional decentralization was further pursued
through the transfer of functions and funding from central to departmental offices. Fourteen Education
Departmental Offices were created with the responsibility for education planning, legalization of schools,
legalization of ACEs and CDEs, information, and personnel administration functions. Each of these offices
established systems to manage information, human resources, budget and payments, accounting,
procurement and inventory. The staff of these offices was trained in the areas of education reform,
personnel administration, community participation, and school-based management. Functions remaining at
the central level include: (i) national education development planning; (ii) education quality norms; (iii)
research and development of education services; and (iv) budgeting, audits and financial controls. In
addition, MINED has increasingly contracted private sector providers to carry out specific tasks, such as
building maintenance, cleaning services, security services, utilities, and vehicle maintenance, reducing
considerably its central staff. Modernization of human resource, financial and procurement management
systems was achieved through a series of coordinated actions which were systematically discussed with
MINED staff prior to implementation. Notable accomplishments are summarized below (see Table 11).
- 10 -



Table 11 Principal Results of the MINED Modernization and Administrative Reform Process
Administrative l  ;                              Major Outcomes   -
Areas
Human Resources   * Development and approval of the Teacher Labor Statute and related instruments
Management:         establishing norms for: effective teaching hours, salary and financial incentives, leave
and other benefits for teachers and their families, retirement, transfers.
* The Teacher's Career Law (Ley de la Carrera Docente) specified performance criteria and
their bearing on salaries and promotions, based on experience and excellence rather on
years of service. The law also establishes a new incentive system based on performance.
* Regulations and guidelines for personnel management functions.
* Improved coordination between the various entities involved in the operationalization of
the Teacher Labor Statute, namely: the MINED Human Resources Department, School
principals, CDEs and ACEs, Teacher Selection Qualifying Tribunal (Tribunal
Certificador), Teacher Career Committees (Juntas de la Carrera Docente), and Teacher
Career Tribunal (Tribunal de la Carrera Docente).
* Establishment of human resources units in the 14 Education Departmental Offices
inancial         * Computerized system to manage financial transfers to schools
Management        * Financial control system to track the hiring of teachers, teacher attendance, firing and
transfer of teachers
* Automatic payment of regular teachers through direct deposit in commercial bank
accounts
* Computerized system of budgeting and allocations at central and departmental levels
Procurement       * Reorganization of the central procurement unit of MINED
Management        * Computerized procurement system
* Improved procurement process and issuance of simplified manual of transaction codes
* Development of mechanisms, instruments and training for school-based community
procurement of education inputs (goods and services)
* Outsourcing procurement services to procurement agencies and NGOs as needed.
C.2 Pilot Basic Education Fund. Performance of this subcomponent was partially successful. The
original subcomponent goal was to explore public-private strategies for the delivery of education services.
The Fund would test alternative methods; establish incentive-based financing mechanisms; promote the
development of pedagogic and administrative innovations; and disseminate pilot results. Universities,
NGOs and community organizations participated in the pilot and provided a package of education services
(community promotion, training, follow-up and monitoring, etc.) for an experimental number of schools.
Results were mixed. In many cases, (i) the contracted organization could not provide the full range of
services demanded by a school; (ii) inter-school collaboration suffered due to segregation between
NGO-supported and regular schools; and (iii) the cost of contracting a full school assistance package with
the private sector proved to be high. Nonetheless, the lessons learned from the pilot program confirmed
that rather than contracting a full range of distinct services, a non public organization can be contracted,
based on their specific comparative advantage, for one type of tasks, such as multigrade teacher training,
monitoring and evaluation, community promotion campaigns, etc. As a result, MINED institutionalized a
general subcontracting system at the central and departmental levels.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The internal economic rate of return of the project was estimated at Appraisal based on assumption
regarding cost and the project's impact on expanding coverage of preschool and basic education and
reducing repetition and dropout rates. Cost per student was assumed to be equivalent to US$149 per year,
which was expected to increase by 7 percent a year until 1999 and by 5 percent a year thereafter. Benefits
- 1 1 -



assumptions include: (a) dropout decisions would be postponed by one year; (b) higher coverage would
lead to higher wages for the labor force; and (c) expanded preschool coverage and improvements in
education quality would reduce repetition rates. Based on these assumptions, the Appraisal economic
analysis estimated the internal economic rate of return for the project at 19.7 percent. Although it is too
early to assess the actual IRR of the project, the updated calculations for the ICR confirm that the
estimated IRR remains valid. Average years of schooling for the student population between the ages of 15
and 18 years increased 1.5 years during the life of the project, from 5.75 in 1995 to 6.9 in 2000. Also, the
updated calculations show a higher average potential earning power of primary education graduates of 11.5
percent (the appraisal calculated it at 10 percent). Thus, the updated calculations for the IRR is estimated
at 21% or at least remaining valid at the 19.7% rate calculated at appraisal (see Annex 3).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The appraisal financial viability projections included: (i) increased budgetary allocations to the education
sector to ensure coverage of the incremental recurrent costs generated by the project; (ii) a small impact on
project incremental recurrent costs on MINED's yearly budge, from 0.06 to 0.41 percent; and (iii) savings
accruing to MINED from increased efficiency and reduced repetition rates were expected to amply
compensate for higher incremental recurrent costs. The project assumed an increase of the education
budget reaching 2.7 percent of GDP by the end of the century.
The ex-post analysis of the financial impact of the project indicates the following:
* The education budget increased from 2.24 percent of GDP in 1996 to 2.71 percent in 2000,
representing 17.2 percent of total Government expenditures; in 2001 the education sector allocation
represented approximately 21 of the national budget.
* Repetition rates for grades 1-6 of basic education declined from 7.5 percent in 1993 to 5.2 percent in
1995, a reduction of 31.6 percent which significantly exceeded the appraisal estimate of 25 percent
reduction; however, repetition rates did not decrease at the same rate during the 1996-2000 period.
* The allocation of the education sector budget to preschool and basic education remained relatively
stable during the 1996-2000 period, changing from 7.9 and 60.4 percent respectively in 1996 to 7.3
and 60.7 percent in 2000.
Thus, it is reasonable to expect that the Government will be able to absorb the incremental recurrent costs
generated by the project without recourse to shiffing budgetary allocations from other sectors, thus ensuring
the sustainability of the education reform program initiated by the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a high and substantially positive institutional development impact, especially with respect
to substantive gains in education decentralization and the strengthening of MINED administrative capacity.
Salient outcomes include:
* The establishment of a school-based management system for preschool and basic education, through
the creation of 4,679 new school management councils;
* Creation of 14 Education Departmental Offices;
* Improved legal framework with specific references to community participation and school-based
management within the General Education Law and the Teacher Career Law of 1996;
* More efficient management of personnel, finances, information systems and procurement by MINED;
* Strengthening and expansion of MINED Communications Units, which contributed to institutionalize
the process of stakeholders consultations;
*   Technical and administrative training for staff has been incorporated in the regular procedures of
- 12-



MINED at central, departmental and local levels;
* The foundations of a National Evaluation System to measure student learning achievements was put in
place;
*   The broadening of MINED's public-private partnerships; and
*   The empowerment of communities and parents to play an active role in the management and provision
of education services.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The first factor outside the control of the Government, which affected project implementation, was
hurricane Mitch in November 1998. Mitch caused considerable damage to education infrastructure and
loss of educational materials for approximately 600 rural schools. The rehabilitation and reconstruction of
schools cost the Government an estimated US$30.5 million, US$5 million of which was provided by
project funds. Second, although the project experienced a high rate of implementation during its first three
years of operations (disbursing almost 90% of funds by the beginning of 1999), it had to be extended for
an additional 6 months due to a second catastrophe: the earthquakes of January and February 2001. At the
time of the earthquakes, the project was almost completed. Nonetheless the government requested the
extension of closing dates for all available education loans, including the closing date for this project which
had only a small amount of funds remaining. The Project Closing Date was, thus, extended from June 30,
2001 to December 3 1st, 2001.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government's ownership and facilitation of project implementation was evidenced by:
*   Strong political commitment to the objectives of the project greatly facilitated project implementation;
*   The MINED provided strong leadership in project planning, design and implementation;
*   The initially high level of commitment to the EDUCO model, the School-Based Management strategies
(mainly the CDEs and ACEs), and other sector reforms remained strong through the change in
Administration in 1999, providing for continuity of vision, policies and program goals; and
* Governance arrangements at national, departmental and school levels were highly transparent,
reinforcing the legitimacy of the reform process both within the public sector and the public at large.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In general, professional commitment, technical competence, and efficiency was exhibit by the Project
Management Office, which greatly contributed to the success of the project. Nonetheless, two areas for
improvement can be mentioned: (i) more attention could have been given to the integrated planning of
human, physical and financial resources; and (ii) during the last phase of project execution, the
institutionalized administration of multilateral funded projects (i.e., by the regular administrative and
financial offices of MINED) may have provided less attention to loan-specific procedures in comparison to
the original administrative management by a PCU (i.e., a fully staffed unit responsible only for project and
loan processes and procedures).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were US$77.06 million, or 96 percent of the Appraisal estimate. Additional resources
(in comparison to appraisal estimates) were required for components A (Expansion of Access) and C
(Institutional Modernization). Component B (Education Quality) required only 90% of original appraisal
estimates, as well as the Project Coordination and Management Component (component D), which only
utilized 85% of its estimated budget. As for audit reports produced during project implementation, these
were consistently unqualified, and indicated that financial administration was highly transparent and the
- 13 -



intemal controls in place ensured the proper use of project funds.
The profile of loan disbursements during project execution reveals very rapid disbursements during the first
three years of project implementation, reaching over 90% percent of the loan amount by the end of 1999.
In late 1998, approximately US$2.8 million in unallocated loan funds were allocated to cover additional
expenditures in educational materials, partly compensating for the damage caused by hurricane Mitch. The
project closing date was extended by six months, from June 30, 2001 to December 31, 2001 to allow for
the full disbursement of the loan funds and contribute to a modest extent with the reconstruction following
the January and February 2001 earthquakes.
Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project, estimated at approximately US$1.5 million per year
have been absorbed by MINED's budget, particularly taking into account the savings accruing from lower
repetition rates and streamlined administrative procedures.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly likely. The Bank and the Borrower have agreed on transition arrangements for
the project future's operations which are reflected in the following performance indicators:
*   Continuity in Government's Policies and Programs. The Basic Education Project was a major
investment in the Government's Ten Year Education Reform Plan launched in 1995. Following the
change in Administration in 1999, the incoming Administration reaffirmed its commitment to the
project and the sector reform objectives and continuity of programs. Specific quantitative targets
proposed by MINED for 2004 include further reduction of illiteracy rates, increase in preschool and
basic education net enrollment, and further reduction of repetition rates and overage students;
*   Financial Sustainability. The Government will fully absorb into the regular educational budget all
recurrent expenditures pertaining to the project;
* Related New Education Investments. Expansion of original project objectives are being financed by
the GOES with support from the Bank Adaptable Program Lending (APL) Education Reform Project
which covers investments during the 2004-2009 period;
*   Sustainable Education Budgets. It is also important to note that, albeit a lower growth rate of the
country's economy, the GOES has sustained its financial commitments to the education sector, and it is
likely that such commitment will be maintained over the long-run;
* Institutionalization of Community Participation. Community participation in the provision of
education services is now a fully consolidated reality in El Salvador. The MINED is defining improved
school governance arrangements that will allow the merge of school autonomy with education quality
as a single strategic model, replicated at national, departmental and local levels. Given the country's
experience with participatory approaches and how much it has achieved in terms of community-based
development, it is highly likely that such structure will be successfully developed; and
* Improved Institutional Capacity of MINED. The institutional modernization strategies are an
ongoing process. In the near future, greater emphasis will be placed on forming broader alliances
between the public and the private and NGO sectors for improvements in the delivery of quality
education services nationwide.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The new educational activities financed by the project have been incorporated in MINED's regular
operations; budget and transitional arrangements have been agreed by the Bank and the Borrower as stated
in 6.1 above; and the follow on Bank-supported operation, the Education Reform APL, is guaranteeing
- 14 -



further investments in education access, quality and school autonomy.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
Bank performance during identification, preparation, and project appraisal is rated highly satisfactory
considering the following factors:
* The project was designed based on lessons learned from previous projects, on recommendation of
sector work on poverty alleviation, and on reform priorities in the education and public sectors
identified in the CAS;
*   Project preparation adequately reflected an assessment of risks related to the sector's institutional
capacity and other potential constraints, and mitigating measures were adopted to reduce these risks;
*   Effective coordination between donors (IDB and IBRD) contributed significantly to a successful
project design and preparation process; and
*   The involvement of a multi-disciplinary team, consisting of educators, social scientists, health and
nutrition experts, community-based development specialists, and professionals in institutional
development and information systems, ensure a well rounded and thorough project preparation process.
*   The Bank's Quality Assurance Group evaluated the design of the project and found it highly
satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank supervision focused on education quality, procurement, and project administration aspects.
Supervision Aide Memoires provided a detailed record of the implementation process and recommendations
for overcoming difficulties. Team-building workshops were organized during the early stages of project
implementation, with the participation of key representatives of MINED, Bank and IDB. Field trips were
systematically part of the supervision process, providing a realistic view of project implementation at the
school level. A continuous and open policy dialogue market the supervision of the project and fostered the
fine tuning of on-going reforms. There was a smooth transfer of project supervision responsibilities among
Bank staff, which ensured continuity during the last stages of project implementation. The Bank team
provided effective support during the two natural disasters that took place during project execution:
Hurricane Mitch in 1998 and the two consecutive earthquakes of 2001.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory for the reasons stated in 7.1 and 7.2, above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The GOES was fully engaged throughout project preparation, and provided a clear vision of what needed to
be done to improve the education sector performance. Moreover, the Government willingness and openness
in listening to the opinion of all stakeholders, greatly facilitated the project preparation process. MINED
technical staff at all levels participated in the discussions and helped shape the project objectives and
components.
- 15-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Rating: Satisfactory
Throughout project implementation the Government remained fully committed to achieving the project
goals and allocated well prepared and competent staff to project management. As a result, by the end of
1999 more than 90% of the project goals and physical targets had been achieved, in spite of the serious
difficulties posed by hurricane Mitch. During 2000 and 2001, project execution slowed down and loan
closing was extended for 6 months from June 30 to December 31, 2002, as an emergency measure due to
the earthquakes of January and February 2001. In general, the Government fully implemented the project,
which was the most important tool for the launching of the Education Reform  10 Year Program
(1995-2005).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Rating: Satisfactory
MINED succeeded in institutionalizing project management as part of its regular operations, thus
guaranteeing full ownership of the project within the Ministry. Initially, a Project Management Office only
dealt with the administrative and financial procedures that were specific to external loans from the Bank
and IDB. All other aspects of project implementation were mainstreamed into the regular technical
departments of MINED. Subsequently, administrative and financial project aspects were also
mainstreamed within MINED's Administrative and Financial Department. This required an adjustment
phase for MINED's administrative staff to deal with both the regular operations of MINED and the
specialized needs of multilateral loans (both from IBRD and IDB). In general, by project end, the
aggregated evidence points to satisfactory performance of the implementing agency, which includes:
*   The original Project Management Office did an excellent job in facilitating the work of the different
actors involved in project implementation;
*   The Project Component Directors were highly competent and committed to the objectives of the
project, and maintained team-work and fluid communications throughout project implementation;
*   The Mid-Term Review recommendations were fully taken into account, which facilitated the continued
achievement of the project goals; and
*   Financial and Administrative procedures complied with Bank norms.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory for its quality of inputs, consistency in the application
of sector policies, and diligence in implementing the various project tasks. In conclusion, MINED ensured
the institutionalization of project components and activities-albeit the increased work load and need of an
adjustment period by its staff.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from this project can be summarized as follows:
Political support is a key ingredient of success. Political commitment to the project was translated into
specific and tangible indicators, such as increased education budgets, supportive policies and regulations,
and public-private-NGO alliances.
- 16 -



An evaluation culture is essential for sustained system improvement. Parents, students, teachers, and
administrations need to understand how the evaluation of student leaming achievement, of teacher
performance, and of financial and human resource management contribute to ensuring a more effective and
efficient delivery of education services. The project was highly successful in generating awareness and
understanding of the important of evaluation through its communication campaigns.
Community-management improves effectiveness in the delivery of education services. Decentralization
of resources need to be accompanied by decentralization of decision-making and financial management to
improve the quality of education in schools. While national standards should be maintained in areas such
as curriculum development and leaming achievement criteria, local communities should have a greater say
regarding the factors that influence the quality of education.
Moniioring and evaluation systems should be able to gauge the impact of inputs in education
outcomes. Analyses of well designed indicators helps assess the ways in which physical inputs such as
appropriate teaching and leaming materials and physical infrastructure improvements affect the quality and
efficiency of education.
Appropriate planning, management and information systems are strategic for successful project
implementation. In designing these systems, the following factors should be considered: (i) system design
needs to be accompanied by appropriate and timely training of users; (ii) pilot testing of systems tend to
lead to more effective and user-friendly system designs; (iii) regular evaluation of system's operations is
necessary to ensure its appropriate operation and continued pertinence; and (iv) the maintenance of
standards for highly reliable information is essential to ensure the usefulness of the systems. Although
considerable progress was achieved in installing efficient management systems through this Project, further
improvements are still needed.
Pilot initiatives are an important tool for continuous exploration of innovative and alternative
approaches to the delivery of education services. Pilot programs can be tested and adjusted before being
expanded system-wide. They provide a firm basis for planning, expansion, and an ideal ground for the
participation of stakeholders.
Cross-sector approaches for the delivery of social services can be highly effective. This project
exemplifies the benefits of integrating education, health and nutrition services at the local level. The
inter-institutional coordination prompted by such strategies, is instrumental in maximizing resource use,
expanding access to services, and lowering delivery costs.
Modernizing financial procedures goes a long way in improving overall management efficiency.
Financial decentralization to schools, within the project, underwent a gradual process of modemization,
through trial and error. Initially, delays in financial transfers to ACEs and CDEs were caused by
disagreements between public institutions regarding the financial procedures for community-based
education management. Over time, inter-ministerial negotiations (mainly between the Ministry of Finance
and the Ministry of Education) allowed for efficient and transparent decentralized financial procedures,
including use of commercial bank transfers combined with ex-post audits of local financial records kept by
schools and comnmunities.
- 17-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
I. Introducci6n
1.     Antecedentes del Proyecto
A partir de la firma de los Acuerdos de Paz en 1992, la naci6n salvadorefia asent6 su compromiso con la
reconstrucci6n del pais y el fortalecimiento de las bases del desarrollo humano, especialmente la educaci6n.
Durante el periodo de 1989 a 1994, El Salvador comenz6 a dar respuesta a la problematica
educativa-caracterizada por un alto indice de inasistencia escolar, falta de acceso, analfabetismo, y
grandes carencias tanto institucionales como de infraestructura educativa. Entre los esfuerzos iniciales se
encontraron: el incremento de recursos fiscales para apoyar la educaci6n basica (inicialmente primaria), las
bases para una reforma curricular de primaria (incluyendo la capacitaci6n de docentes y el disefiao y
distribuci6n de materiales educativos), el inicio de la reforma del marco legal (Ley General de Educaci6n
1990) y el comienzo de un modelo de administraci6n escolar con participaci6n de la comunidad en zonas
rurales (EDUCO).
EDUCO, Educaci6n con Participaci6n de la Comunidad, se inici6 como una estrategia de expansi6n de la
educaci6n de parvularia y primer ciclo, en las zonas rurales mas remotas del pais; luego, se adopt6 como la
estrategia de MINED para ampliar la cobertura a nivel rural. En el programa, el MINED promueve la
organizaci6n comunal, contribuye en la conformaci6n legal de Asociaciones Comunales para la Educaci6n
(ACE) que son grupos comunales formados por padres y madres de familia. Las ACE son las responsables
de la gesti6n educativa en el nivel local, de manera descentralizada, contratan al maestro y compran
material gastable, mientras el Ministerio capacita, orienta y transfiere fondos. El programa recibi6 apoyo
del Banco Mundial, a traves del prestamo "Rehabilitaci6n de los Sectores Sociales".
Como preambulo a la formulaci6n del Plan de Reforma Educativa 1995-2005, se pueden identificar tres
procesos claves de diagnostico y consulta: (i) un diagn6stico completo del sistema educativo llevado a cabo
por instituciones locales y apoyo intemacional, (ii) se generan alianzas entre organismos intemacionales y
nacionales para apoyar de manera coordinada y articulada los procesos de reforma educativa, y (iii) se lleva
a cabo un proceso de consulta nacional para definir los ejes de la reformna educativa y sus principales
objetivos y metas. Estos tres productos fortalecen el proceso de planificaci6n participativa y consenso
nacional a favor de la reforma educativa.
Hacia finales de 1995, ya con apoyo del Proyecto "Modemizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica", se consolida la
propuesta de reforma en el Plan Decenal de Educaci6n 1995-2005. Cuatro ejes guian las estrategias de
reforma: la universalizaci6n del acceso, el mejoramiento de la calidad, la modemizaci6n institucional y la
formaci6n en valores. Dentro de cada uno de estos ejes fundamentales, el pais defini6, mediante un proceso
de amplia participacion y consenso, estrategias especificas de reforma.
En lo econ6mico, con la firma de los Acuerdos de Paz, despues 12 afios de conflicto belico, y la
implantaci6n de un programa de ajuste estructural, el dinamismo econ6mico de El Salvador se aceler6. La
tasa de crecimiento entre 1992 y 1995 fue, en promedio, de 6.8 por ciento anual, mientras que el deficit
fiscal se redujo de 4.6 por ciento del PIB en 1992 a 0.1 por ciento, en 1995.
El crecimiento econ6mico comenz6 a desacelerarse a mediados de 1995. Para 1996 la tasa de crecimiento
econ6mico fue de solo 1.7 por ciento, la menor de la decada de los 90; y en promedio, el crecimiento
- 18 -



econ6mico entre 1996 y 2001, fue de 2.8 por ciento. Por lo anterior, la imnplementaci6n del prestamo se dio
en un ambiente econ6mico menos favorable.
A la par de la desaceleraci6n econ6mica, las cuentas fiscales se fueron deteriorando, hasta alcanzar un
deficit fiscal de 3 por ciento del PIB en el 2000. Se estima que el deficit fiscal para el 2001alcanz6 el 3.4
por ciento del PIB, el porcentaje mas alto desde 1992.
A pesar de las restricciones fiscales, el presupuesto destinado a la educaci6n publica experimento aumentos
continuos e importantes durante la vida del Proyecto. Entre 1996 y el 2001, el presupuesto de educaci6n
aument6 en 59 por ciento en teminos reales, y pas6 de significar el 2.3 por ciento del PIB en el primer afno,
a 3 por ciento en el ultimo afio.
Con relaci6n a la situaci6n educativa, a pesar del progreso experimentado a inicios de los 90, los
indicadores educativos del pais eran auin muy bajos especialmente en las areas rurales, lo que levantaba
dudas sobre la capacidad del pais de insertarse efectivamente en la globalizaci6n, combatir la pobreza y
alcanzar el desarrollo. En 1995, 11 por ciento de la Poblaci6n Econ6micamente Activa (PEA) en el Area
urbana tenia cero afios de escolaridad, mientras que este porcentaje ascendia a 34 por ciento en el area
rural. En el otro extremo, unicamente 14 por ciento de la PEA urbana alcanzaba niveles superiores de
educaci6n, porcentaje que en el area rural era casi nulo.
2.     Descripci6n y objetivos del proyecto
En 1995 el MINED elaboro el documento "Reforma Educativa en Marcha Documento III Lineamientos del
Plan Decenal 1995-2005" en el cual se establecian los cuatro pilares de la reforma educativa: cobertura,
calidad, modernizaci6n y valores. El proyecto conjunto del Banco Mundial y del BID, vendria a apoyar a
los tres primeros ejes.
El Proyecto conjunto del Banco Mundial y del BID "Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica" apoyaria el
programa de reforma mediante: a) la ampliaci6n de los servicios de educaci6n basica por medio de formas
nuevas de prestar el servicio, focalizando sus esfuerzos en las poblaciones menos favorecidas; b) el
mejoramiento de la calidad de los servicios de educaci6n basica, y c) el fortalecimiento de las capacidades
institucionales del MINED para planificar y administrar la prestaci6n de los servicios educativos de forma
descentralizada al incorporar nuevas areas en la reforma.
El Proyecto, por un total de US$80.2 millones, fue financiado de la siguiente forma: Banco Mundial, US$
34.0 millones; BID, US$ 37.3 millones; y GOES, US$ 8.9 millones.
El pr6stamo fue aprobado por el Directorio del Banco Mundial el 28 de septiembre de 1995. Despues de la
ratificaci6n de la Asamblea Legislativa de El Salvador, fue publicado en el Diario Oficial No.36 del 21 de
febrero de 1996.
3.     Objetivo original
El objetivo original del proyecto era promover mayor equidad, calidad y eficiencia en la prestaci6n de
servicios educativos, a traves de: mayor acceso a la educaci6n, mejoras en la calidad de la educaci6n tanto
en logros academicos como ambiente educativo, y fortalecimiento de la capacidad gerencial, financiera y
administrativa del MINED como rector del sector y proveedor de servicios educativos publicos.
El proyecto se organiz6 en esos tres componentes, de la siguiente forma:
- 19 -



Componente 1. Expansi6n en el acceso a educaci6n parvularia y basica. (US$12.5 millones)
La expansi6n se focalizaria en los 135 municipios con mayores niveles de deficiencia en servicios
educativos para apoyar: (i) la expansi6n del programa EDUCO en aquellas regiones que no tuvieran
servicios de educaci6n preescolar o basica, incluyendo la rehabilitaci6n de la infraestructura escolar y la
provisi6n de mobiliario en escuelas rurales que fuesen apoyadas por el FIS; y (ii) asistencia tecnica para el
fortalecimiento del modelo EDUCO
Componente 2. Mejoras en la calidad de la educaci6n (US$49.2 millones)
Este componente contenia las siguientes acciones para mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n preescolar y
basica, beneficiando a todo el pais: (i) asistencia tecnica para el desarrollo curricular de parvularia y
basica, el disefio de un sistema nuevo de promoci6n estudiantil, y el establecimiento de aulas multigrado
(alternativas) en escuelas del area rural; (ii) materiales educativos, como libros de texto, materiales
didacticos, y bibliotecas escolares y de aula; (iii) capacitaci6n y asistencia para elevar las capacidades de
los maestros de parvularia y basica, directores y supervisores, y para elaborar estudios encaminados a
mejorar la formaci6n docentes pre-servicio; y (iv) desarrollo de un sistema de evaluaci6n educativa.
Componente 3. Modernizaci6n y fortalecimiento institucional (US$13.3 millones)
En este componente se incluia: (i) asistencia tecnica para revisar el marco legal y organizacional del
MINED, con el fin de mejorar la eficiencia del sistema, aumentar la cobertura y mejorar la calidad de los
servicios educativos, para llevar a cabo reformas institucionales en las areas del manejo de los recursos
humanos y fmancieros, y en los sistemas de planificaci6n, informaci6n, evaluaci6n, monitoreo, supervisi6n
y comunicaci6n, y para establecer un programa de desarrollo de personal dirigido a aumentar la capacidad
del personal tecnico y administrativo; y (ii) establecimiento de un mecanismo de fmanciamiento, el Fondo
de Innovaciones Educativas, para probar metodos altemativos de provisi6n de servicios de educaci6n
basica y preescolar.
4.     Analisis de los objetivos iniciales
Componente 1. Expansi6n en el acceso a educacion parvularia y basica
Subcomponente (l.a) - Expansi6n de la educaci6n preescolar y basica en las zonas rurales.
A pesar de las mejoras que se habian dado a partir de 1989, todavia en 1995, 43 por ciento de los nifios y
j6venes del area rural en edad de estudiar estaban fuera de la escuela. Ademas, 21.5 por ciento de los nifios
entre 7 y 12 anios de edad que estaban estudiando, contaban con dos afios o mas de la edad apropiada para
cursar el grado al que asistia. El proyecto buscaba mayor equidad en el sistema al enfocar sus acciones en
el area rural, area en la que la asistencia escolar era menor y donde la pobreza era mayor.
Se planteaba ampliar los servicios de parvularia como una de las formas mas efectivas para mejorar los
indicadores de eficiencia del sistema. En el area rural, en 1995, la matricula bruta en este nivel era
unicamente de 20.2 por ciento. El proyecto planteaba el aumento de la cobertura de educacion parvularia
para incluir 32,000 niiios en edad preescolar que vivian en zonas rurales y que en ese momento no
asistian a clases. Esto significaba aumentar la tasa bruta a 35.5 por ciento. Esta meta era ambiciosa ya
que los factores de demanda educativa eran los que prevalecian en la no asistencia escolar de los nifios entre
4 y 6 afios de edad.
- 20 -



En cuanto a la educacion bdsica, la matricula alcanzaba 1,083,033 estudiantes, 43.6 por ciento de ellos se
ubicaban en la zona rural La meta del Proyecto en este nivel educativo era incorporar al sistema a
64,000 nifnos rurales que en ese momento estuvieran fuera de el, lo que implicaba aumentar la tasa bruta
de matricula, en esta area, de 79.1 por ciento a 89.8 por ciento. Segun la EHPM de 1995, los factores
asociados a la no asistencia escolar para los ninios en edad de asistir a basica, se concentraban tambien en
factores de demanda educativa, aunque los factores asociados a oferta de educaci6n afectaban a un 12 por
ciento de los que no asistian a clases.
En el Proyecto se planteaba el establecimiento de 3,000 nuevas secciones EDUCO en los municipios mAs
pobres deficitarios en servicios de educaci6n preescolar y basica. La meta implicaba casi duplicar el
niumero de secciones existentes en EDUCO, que en 1995 alcanzaba 3,554 secciones. El calendario
acordado era de 750 secciones anuales, 250 de parvularia, y 500 de primero y segundo ciclo. Esta meta era
factible, dada la historia del establecimiento de secciones EDUCO, que en 1994 y 1995 sobrepas6 las mil
secciones anuales.
Ademas se acord6 una sustituci6n gradual de 3,070 secciones de escuelas tradicionales por el modelo
EDUCO, lo que en algunos casos implicaria traslado de mtaestros. Esta sustituci6n ha estado normada bajo
un plan de reordenamiento gradual del recurso humano docente bajo dos principios: concertaci6n de la
comunidad educativa para cambio de modalidad y reubicaci6n de maestros en sus puestos de trabajo. Esta
meta se modific6 a 550 secciones con la evaluaci6n de medio termino.
Finalmente, dentro de este subcomponente se establecia la rehabilitaci6n de infraestructura escolar en
zonas rurales, ya que el acceso estaba limitado por la inadecuada infraestructura; muchas escuelas
necesitaban rehabilitaci6n y carecian de equipos y mobiliario. El proyecto incluia medidas para impulsar la
construcci6n de secciones nuevas en zonas que presentaban deficit de infraestructura y acciones para la
rehabilitaci6n de escuelas.
Subcomponente (1.b) - Fortalecimiento del programa EDUCO
En 1995 aun se observaban problemas en la capacidad de administraci6n de las ACE por lo que el proyecto
buscaba fortalecer esta capacidad administrativa y la participaci6n de los padres, para lo cual se
buscaria el apoyo de ONG y otras organizaciones privadas. Originalmente se planteaba el fortalecimiento
de 2,500 ACE con el apoyo de ONG y otras organizaciones privadas. Esta meta se revis6 a 1,200 con la
evaluaci6n de medio temino.
Componente 2. Mejoras en la calidad de'la educaci6n
Subcomponente (2a) Desarrollo del Plan de Estudios
Con el apoyo del programa SABE, el MNED habia dedicado tiempo y esfuerzo a la reforma curricular de
primero y segundo ciclo, quedando pendiente la revisi6n del curriculo del tercer ciclo; ademAs de no existir
m6dulos curriculares para el nivel preescolar. El proyecto planteaba complementar las actividades
realizadas con el apoyo de SABE, incluyendo la revisi6n del plan de estudio para el Tercer Ciclo de
Educaci6n Basica para complementar el disefiado para el primer y segundo ciclo y apoyo para el
desarrollo del curriculo de parvularia.
Tambien el proyecto apoyarz'a el desarrollo de un programa experimental multigrado en las escuelas
EDUCO con el fin de dar al sistema la flexibilidad que necesita en las Areas rurales. Ademas, se
- 21 -



estableceria un nuevo sistema de promoci6n estudiantil, permitiendo el progreso automatico dentro de cada
ciclo.
Subcomponente (2.b.) Textos de estudio y materiales.
Habian deficiencias en la cantidad y calidad de los textos de estudio de la educaci6n basica. La importancia
del acceso a libros de texto por parte de los estudiantes era mayor dado que los maestros no dominaban las
materias y los estudiantes no tenian acceso a otros materiales complementarios. En ese ambiente, el
proyecto planteaba dar acceso a libros de textos como un medio efectivo para mejorar la ensefianza. El
plan del MINED contemplaba la producci6n y distribuci6n de aproximadamente 3,500,000 libros entre
1996 y 2000. Los textos se entregarian siguiendo la estrategia de SABE mediante la cual los textos eran
elaborados por especialistas nacionales y/o intemacionales e impresos en el sector privado.
Ademas de la falta de textos, las escuelas carecian de materiales didacticos complementarios. Bajo el
proyecto SABE, el MINED habia comenzado a desarrollar un programa basico, la canasta basica, con los
materiales fundamentales para las escuelas de la educaci6n basica (grados del 1 al 6). Sin embargo, se
requerian mayores esfuerzos para una provisi6n mas amplia de estos materiales suplementarios para todas
las escuelas y alumnos de la educaci6n bAsica. El proyecto incluia medidas para dotar a las escuelas de
materiales didacticos, siguiendo el modelo de la canasta basica en las escuelas urbano-marginales (para
aprovechar economias de escala), y descentralizado el gasto hacia las escuelas, en las ubicadas en las zonas
rurales. En las escuelas, tampoco se disponia de bibliotecas, material de lectura para la sala de clases,
equipos de ciencia y computadoras. Esta situaci6n era mas aguda en las zonas rurales y urbano-marginales.
El proyecto dotaria de bibliotecas escolares para recintos preescolares y basicos y bibliotecas de aula
para escuelas EDUCO. Ademas, se dotaria a algunas escuelas de tercer ciclo de basica de juegos de
laboratorio.
Subcomponente (2.c) Sistema de capacitaci6n docente en el lugar de trabajo
PrActicamente no existia en El Salvador una formaci6n docente para la educaci6n preescolar o para los
primeros anios de la escuela basica. La mayoria de los maestros de estos niveles eran graduados
universitarios y habian sido formados para ensefiar los grados superiores del nivel basico. El proyecto
incluia el establecimiento de un regimen de capacitaci6n en el lugar de trabajo para los maestros
preescolares y de educacion basica. En el esquema propuesto, la Direcci6n Nacional de Educaci6n seria
responsable de fijar los lineamientos nacionales para la formaci6n docente. Se formarian tres Centros de
Capacitaci6n de Maestros, los que serian responsables de apoyar los programas de capacitaci6n en el lugar
de trabajo que serian ejecutados por los Escuelas Modelos de Desarrollo Educativo (EMDE), ademas de
contratar los programas de capacitaci6n pedag6gica a universidades y otras instituciones privadas.
Adicionalmente, los supervisores dentro del sistema de supervisi6n, del que se hablara posteriormente,
tendrian la funci6n de asesorar al centro escolar en practicas pedag6gicas.
Subcomponente (2.d) Sistema de evaluaci6n educativa
Bajo el proyecto SABE, el MINED habia comenzado a aplicar pruebas para medir el nivel de aprendizaje
de los alumnos de primaria. Esta experiencia mostr6 la importancia de crear un sistema de fiscalizaci6n y
evaluaci6n del logro y los estAndares academicos de la ensefianza y de las diferentes modalidades de los
servicios educativos que se proveian. El proyecto incluia medidas para mejorar la capacidad institucional
y tecnica para medir los logros de los alumnos como un instrumento para incrementar la eficiencia y la
responsabilidad de la educaci6n.
- 22 -



Subcomponente (2.e) Programa de salud y nutrici6n escolar
La encuesta FESAL-93 mostraba que una tercera parte de los nifios de cuatro afios sufrian de desnutrici6n
cr6nica. El hambre y la desnutrici6n reducen la capacidad fisica y mental de los ninios, disminuyendo la
capacidad de aprendizaje y los logros educacionales, y aumentan el riesgo de enfermedades y el ausentismo
escolar. El proyecto buscaba aumentar la capacidad de aprendizaje de los niiios a traves de mejoras en la
salud y la nutrici6n. Para esto, perseguia cambiar las prActicas relacionadas con nutrici6n y salud en la
comunidad escolar; prevenir y tratar problemas de nutrici6n y salud en nifios en edad escolar; evaluar el
programa de alimentaci6n escolar existente e identificar y experimentar modelos de alimentaci6n
alternativos para los municipios mas pobres.
Componente 3. Modernizaci6n yfortalecimiento institucional
Subcomponente (3.a) Modemizaci6n del MINED
Apoyado en la experiencia de EDUCO, el MINED habia iniciado un proceso de descentralizaci6n de los
servicios educativos, transfiriendo gradualmente responsabilidades a los niveles regionales y locales; sin
embargo, la estructura institucional todavia se caracterizaba por ser rigida y centralizada, con debilidad en
las instituciones locales y complejos procedimientos administrativos.
En ese momento, existian tres oficinas regionales, lo que no representa una descentralizaci6n efectiva. El
proyecto incluia la reorganizacion de la estructura del MINED y revision del marco legal para apoyar la
descentralizaci6n de las actividades educacionales hacia los departamentos y las escuelas.
Tambien se contemplaba revisar el sistema de incentivos del desempeno para maestros y personal t&cnico
,con el fin de promover la excelencia. Hasta ese momento, el escalaf6n docente premiaba a los maestros
que trabajaban en los niveles superiores, cuando era el primer grado de educaci6n basica el que mostraba
mayores problemas y el que requeria de los mejores profesores. Con el proyecto, se revisaria el escalaf6n
docente del sistema tradicional, tambien se desarrollaria una mejor politica de empleo para los maestros
EDUCO. Ademas, se revisaria la estructura salarial del personal tecnico; y se definirian las nuevas
descripciones de trabajo.
Mediante la provisi6n de asistencia tecnica, equipos y programas de computaci6n, se mejorarian 10k5
sistemas de planificaci6n, informacion gerencial y evaluaci6n. Para ser coherente con el programa para la
modernizaci6n del sector puTblico, se daria prioridad al desarrollo del sistema de informacion de recursos
humanos (SIRH) y al Sissema de Administraci6n Financiera Integrada (SAFI).
Por otro lado, el programa incluia un componente para mejorar el sistema de supervisi6n, que habia sido
reiniciado en 1990. Hasta ese momento, los supervisores habian estado limitados en su capacidad de
proporcionar apoyo y orientaci6n pedag6gica a los profesores tanto del sistema tradicional como de
EDUCO, por los mecanismos inadecuados de supervisi6n, la falta de claridad en la asignaci6n de
actividades y la escasa preparaci6n tecnica. El proyecto apoyaba el aumento del tiempo utilizado en el
control de las actividades docentes y la reducci6n de las responsabilidades adrninistrativas. Se preveian
incentivos para supervisores que trabajaran en escuelas rurales distantes.
Tambien el proyecto apoyaria el desarrollo e implantaci6n de un programa de comunicaciones para
movilizar apoyo publico para las reformas, y el establecirniento de un canal de informaci6n entre el publico
y el MIED, con el fin de que este conociera la opinion de los agentes interesados. La estructura de
comunicaciones del MINED seria fortalecida.
- 23 -



Por u[ltimo, se contemplaba un programa de desarrollo de personal que acompafiaria al proceso de
reorganizaci6n del MINED, con el fin de mejorar, en forna coordinada y oportuna, las habilidades del
personal administrativo, tecnico y pedag6gico necesario para el proceso de desarrollo institucional.
Subcomponente (3.b) hmovaciones en educaci6n
El proyecto contemplaba establecer un fondo para desarrollar innovaciones educativas en apoyo a las
nuevas iniciativas en el proceso de reforma de la educaci6n basica. Durante la ejecuci6n de la operaci6n, el
Fondo para la Educaci6n Basica financiaria al menos cuatro subproyectos innovadores que contribuyeran a
mejorar la calidad, la eficiencia y la cobertura de la educaci6n preescolar y basica en el pais por intermedio
de municipios y de entidades privadas sin fines de lucro.
I.    Expeniencia y Resultados de la Implementacion
1.     Logros de los objetivos originales
Componente 1. Ampliaci6n de la educaci6n preescolar y basica
Subcomponente (1.a) Expansi6n de la educaci6n preescolar y bisica en las areas rurales.
En el area rural, el incremento de matricula parvularia fue de 115.5 por ciento, lo que permiti6 la
incorporaci6n de 91,084 nifios en este nivel de educaci6n, con lo que la meta establecida en el proyecto se
sobrepas6 en 52.6 por ciento. La tasa bruta de matricula rural aument6 de 20.2 por ciento a 45.1 por
ciento, tanto por el aumento en cobertura como por la disminuci6n en la poblaci6n en edad de asistir a
parvularia.
La matricula en basica aument6 en el area rural en 28.8 por ciento entre 1995 y el 2000, con lo que la tasa
bruta se increment6 en 14.1 puntos porcentuales y alcanz6 103.9 por ciento en el ultimo afio.
Durante la implementaci6n del Proyecto, la tasa de sobreedad Porcentaje de ninios que asisten a la escuela
con dos aiios o mas por encima de la edad correcta para el grado al que atienden. de los nifios entre 7 y 12
afios de edad que asisten a la escuela en educacion primaria se redujo de 21.5 por ciento en 1995 a 15.3 por
ciento en el 2000 Procesado con base en las Encuestas de Hogares de Prop6sitos Multiples, 1995 y 2000..
La ampliaci6n del acceso se hizo a traves de la creaci6n de nuevas secciones EDUCO que en el 2000
alcanzaron 9,064 secciones EDUCO. Ademas, se rehabilitaron y construyeron 3,737 salones de clase,
3,358 de ellos fueron construidos por el FISDL como parte del convenio de apoyo al MINED con fondos
del BID y del BCIE.
En cuanto a la sustituci6n gradual y ordenada de 3,070 secciones de escuelas tradicionales a secciones
EDUCO, como se mencion6 anterionnente, la meta se redujo con la evaluaci6n de medio termino a 550
secciones, y en el 2000 se habia logrado hacerlo con 467.
Subcomponente (1.b) Fortalecimiento del Prograrna EDUCO
Se realizaron varias acciones para fortalecer el Programa EDUCO. Se diseno un sistema simplificado de
transferencia defondos a las ACE, el cual se termin6 de implantar en agosto de 1998, con la habilitaci6n
del sistema en las pagadurias del programa EDUCO.
- 24 -



El Proyecto programaba utilizar ONG y organizaciones privadas para capacitar y monitorear las
actividades de 2,500 ACE. Con la evaluaci6n de medio termino la meta se redujo a 1,200 ACE fortalecidas
y monitoreadas bajo esta modalidad, lo cual se cumpli6 con el proyecto. El MINED concluy6 que las
experiencias aportadas por las ONG eran valiosas, pero que sin embargo habian ventajas si la funci6n de
capacitaci6n de las ACE la mantenia y contrataba directamente el MINED, por lo que fortaleci6 los
mecanismos a su alcance para esto. Durante la vida del proyecto, se capacitaron a 49,899 padres y madres
de las ACE en procesos educativos, administrativos, en escuelas para padres y madres y en gesti6n de la
comunidad, sobrepasando en 39 por ciento la meta establecida en el proyecto. A partir del anio 2001, el
nuevo modelo de capacitaci6n tanto para ACE y CDE es descentralizada.
Componente 2. Calidad educativa.
Subcomponente (2.a) Desarrollo curricular
Con el proyecto, se desarrollaron curriculums para parvularia y se revisaron los de tercer ciclo de
educaci6n basica.
Se inici6 un piloto con 23 aulas multigrado en las areas rurales. El piloto se expandi6 rapidamente. Sin
embargo, el crecimiento acelerado desbord6 la capacidad del MINED de apoyar a estas secciones. En el
2001 se retoma nuevamente el programa ya con guias metodol6gicas y capacitaci6n para los docentes.
Se estableci6 un nuevo sistema de promoci6n estudiantil, con promoci6n automatica dentro de cada ciclo de
ensefianza.
Subcomponente (2.b) Libros de textos y materiales educativos
En cuanto a materiales educativos, durante el Proyecto se imprimieron 427,700 libretas de aprestamiento
para parvularia, cubriendo con ello 272 por ciento de la matricula publica de ese nivel en el 2000. En
cuanto a los cuademos de trabajo para estudiantes de primer grado, se imprimieron 1,196,000 durante el
proyecto, mientras que, en 1999, la matricula publica en este grado sum6 189,344 nifnos.
En 1999, con el Proyecto se imprimieron libros de texto en para las cuatro materias basicas, los que fueron
distribuidos a inicios del 2000. En total los libros de texto de primero y segundo ciclo producidos con el
proyecto ascendieron a 3,724,000 unidades, mientras que la matricula puiblica en estos niveles de educaci6n
ascendi6 a 830,589 en el 2000, con lo que se dot6 a las escuelas con suficientes libros para que a cada niiio
le correspondieran uno de cada materia.
Para el tercer ciclo, se produjeron 741,760 libros con lo que la meta se sobrepas6 en 42 por ciento. El
financiamiento provino de un proyecto del BID ejecutado por el FISDL y de fondos del Proyecto
"Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica".
Para la distribuci6n anual de canasta bAsica a escuelas parvularias y bAsicas, se desarroll6 un metodo
novedoso a partir de 1996, Ilamado bono de calidad, mediante el cual se trasladaron fondos a las escuelas,
segiu el numnero de secciones, para que ellas mismas priorizaran y compraran aquellos materiales que mas
necesitaban. El objetivo del bono de calidad es contribuir a satisfacer las necesidades prioritarias de los
centros educativos, orientadas a mejorar la calidad de los servicios. El monto asignado varia segun el
nrtmero de secciones con que cuenta el centro escolar. A partir de 1999 los bonos de calidad fueron
absorbidos completamente por el presupuesto GOES.
- 25 -



Se establecieron 3,500 bibliotecas escolares con libros de texto para consulta, dotando a la totalidad de
escuelas rurales de basica. En cuanto a las bibliotecas de aula, se establecieron 13,500 con libros
recreativos para incentivar la lectura en los nifios, cubriendo a casi la totalidad de aulas EDUCO de
primaria.
Subcomponente (2.c) Capacitaci6n docente en el lugar de trabajo
Con el Proyecto se fortalecieron 242 Escuelas Modelo que impartian pedagogias participativas distintas a
la tradicional las cuales se esperaba replicar en las escuelas asociadas del distrito. Sin embargo, la
experiencia no se sistematiz6, ni se evalu6, ni se garantiz6 un proceso de seguimiento que pernitiera
consolidar avances y transferir lecciones aprendidas a otros centros.
A la par, se diseno e implement6 un plan de capacitaci6n y se super6 con creces la meta de capacitaciones
de maestros en educaci6n parvularia y basica. La capacitaci6n docente era impartida por universidades
bajo convenio con el MINED. Los cursos se trataban de amoldar a los requerimientos de las diferentes
escuelas, aunque siempre quedaban necesidades no atendidas.
Las acciones realizadas bajo el proyecto sentaron las bases para diseilar an sistema que acercar la oferta de
capacitacion a la demanda de las escuelas. En el nuevo sistema, que funciona a partir del 2001, y que es
apoyado por el Proyecto "Reforma Educativa Fase I", se descentralizaron a las escuelas los recursos para
la capacitaci6n, transfiriendoles $56.69 por maestros al anio. La escuela, junto al asesor pedag6gico,
establecen y contratan las necesidades de capacitaci6n.
Con relaci6n al sistema de evaluaci6n educativa, en 1996 y 1998 se realizaron pruebas de logros de
aprendizaje para las cuatro asignaturas basicas. Sin embargo, el sistema de evaluacion y los instrumentos
utilizados no habian podido proporcionar los datos necesarios para poder medir la efectividad tanto del
programa EDUCO, como del resto del sistema. Hacian falta instrumentos mas precisos y actualizados con
factores asociados al rendimiento para mostrar si el nino aprende o no bajo el sistema. Por esta razon, no
se realizaron pruebas en el 2000, pues se veia la necesidad de disefiar nuevamente las pruebas y establecer
una nueva linea de base. El nuevo sistema de evaluacion se implement6 a partir del 2001 e incluyo factores
asociados al rendimiento.
Aunque no son el instrumento id6neo, los resultados de las pruebas de logro no muestran mejoras en la
calidad educativa, lo que podria reflejar que no se tuvo impacto en la calidad de la educaci6n con el
Proyecto. Sin embargo, habria que recordar que el componente de mejoramiento de la calidad estaba
relacionado con la instrumentaci6n, dotaci6n de recursos, creacion de sistemas, etc.; los cuales no podian
impactar en un tiempo tan corto. Lo que si logr6 el Proyecto fue dotar de un mejor ambiente en el aula
para el aprendizaje.
Subcomponente (2.e) Salud y Nutrici6n
Este subcomponente apoy6 al Programa Escuelas Saludables, estrategia fundamental en el mejoramiento de
la calidad de la educaci6n. En el Programa participan diversos organismos Estatales: La Secretaria
Nacional de la Familia, el MINED, el Ministerio de Salud, el FISDL, ANDA y el Ministerio de Obras
Pu:blicas. Diversos indicadores sugieren que ha tenido un impacto positivo en educaci6n (asistencia,
deserci6n, repitencia, aprendizaje), nutrici6n y salud (desnutrici6n, anemia, parasitosis).
La Unidad de Alimentaci6n Escolar disefi6 un estudio piloto basado en la transferencia directa de recursos
- 26 -



financieros a las comunidades educativas (bono de alimentaci6n). Este estudio piloto sent6 las bases para el
establecimiento del Bono de Alimentaci6n Escolar, a partir del 2000, con el cual se fortalece el proceso de
descentralizaci6n y la capacidad de autogesti6n de las comunidades.
Componente 3. Modernizaci6n Institucional
Subcomponente (3.a) Modernizaci6n del MINED
En el Proyecto se planteaba la reorganizaci6n de la estructura del MINED y revisi6n del marco legal para
apoyar la descentralizaci6n de las actividades educacionales hacia los departamentos y las escuelas.
En 1996 se aprobaron por unanimidad en la Asamblea Legislativa la Ley General de Educaci6n (1996) y la
Ley de la Carrera Docente (1996) lo que refleja el nivel de consensos que existia en el pais en tomo a la
Reforma Educativa.
La Ley de la Carrera Docente establece la figura de los Consejos Directivos Escolares (CDE) obligatoria en
todas las escuelas oficiales, figura con la que abre el espacio para una participaci6n mas activa de la
comunidad educativa. Entre las funciones del CDE se encuentra planificar las actividades y recursos del
centro educativo y participar en la administraci6n de los recursos humanos fisicos y financieros.
Los cambios legales dieron el soporte para que las funciones ejecutoras del nivel central del MINED se
fueran eliminando paulatinamente. Ademas, las tres oficinas regionales se desconcentraron a 14 oficinas
departamentales, con las funciones de administrar los recursos humanos, fisicos y financieros en sus
respectivos niveles y de la coordinaci6n de la actividades de supervisi6n en los distritos.
En la nueva estructura, los distritos de supervisi6n son responsables de la coordinaci6n de las actividades y
procesos entre las escuelas y los departamentos en cuanto se refiere a profesores, textos de estudio,
materiales escolares y programas de alimentaci6n escolar, en su respectiva jurisdicci6n. Tambien, proveen
asistencia tecnica a las escuelas y a los maestros para la resoluci6n de problemas administrativos y
pedag6gicos, esto uiltimo con el apoyo de las EMDE. Las escuelas admninistran los recursos financieros y
materiales que les transfiere el MINED.
En cuanto a la revisi6n del sistema de incentivos del desempenlo para maestros, durante la decada de los 90
los docentes del sector puiblico tuvieron varios incrementos salariales, siendo los mas significativos un
incremento de 15 por ciento en terminos reales en 1994 y otro de 51 por ciento en 1996. Con la Ley de la
Carrera Docente cambi6 el sistema de remuneraci6n docente de tal forma que se reconocen los estudios
realizados y la experiencia laboral. El sistema de pagos de los docentes se descentraliz6 hacia las oficinas
departamentales, con lo que se minimiz6 el tiempo utilizado por el encargado en la escuela de ir a recoger
los cheques. Se estableci6 el requisito de escalafonamiento para los maestros EDUCO.
Por otro lado, se realiz6 un reordenamiento del personal administrativo del MINED de acuerdo a la
funci6n, responsabilidad, formaci6n profesional y valor del desempenlo de cada empleado.
Se desarroll6 el sistema de informaci6n de recursos humanos (SIRH) en el que se ha capturado a todo el
personal docente y administrativo del MINED. Este sistema se encuentra funcionando en las 14 oficinas
departamentales. Los m6dulos de formulaci6n y ejecuci6n presupuestaria y el de tesoreria se terminaron y
estAn siendo utilizadas por las distintas USEFI (Unidad Secundaria de Sector Financiero) del MINED.
La experiencia EDUCO y los bonos de calidad sentaron las bases para la asignaci6n presupuestaria con
- 27 -



base en las necesidades de las escuelas. Por otro lado, a partir de 1999 se realiza anualmente un Censo
Escolar, que junto a datos de poblaci6n por municipio, permite determinar las necesidades de nuevas
secciones territorialmente, con lo que se ha establecido un buen sistema de informaci6n gerencial, y las
bases para diseniar un sistema de planificaci6n de oferta educativa y de necesidades de financiamiento.
En cuanto a la calidad educativa, las nuevas pruebas de logro de aprendizaje, junto a informaci6n sobre
factores asociados al rendimiento, permitiran tener un mejor monitoreo sobre su evoluci6n, y dara la
informaci6n necesaria para incidir en su mejora.
En cuanto a la planificaci6n dentro de las escuelas, se aplic6 el Instrumento del Proyecto Educativo
Institucional en 100 escuelas. Esta experiencia sent6 las bases para crear incentivos a las escuelas para la
elaboraci6n y seguimiento de este plan. El programa "Escuela 10", del cual se hablarA en la parte de
sostenibilidad, genera estos incentivos.
Con el Proyecto se desarroll6 un esquema de supervisi6n en el que las finciones de los supervisores eran
supervisar administrativamente a las escuelas y asesorarlas para mejorar sus metodos pedag6gicos para la
cual se desarrollaron guias de supervisi6n y se capacit6 a los supervisores.
La oficina de comunicaciones del MINED fue fortalecida para movilizar apoyo publico para las reformas,
y el establecimiento de un canal de informaci6n entre el publico y el MINED, con el fin de que este
conociera la opini6n de los agentes interesados. Se diseno y ejecut6 una campaina dirigida a dar a conocer
los logros de la reforma educativa y a elevar la valoraci6n de la educaci6n por parte de la sociedad. Se
establecieron diferentes nexos con la sociedad civil y con los partidos politicos para conocer y
retroalimentar sus opiniones. Un ejemplo es el seminario organizado por el MINED, el Banco Mundial y la
Universidad de Harvard, en noviembre de 1997, al cual asistieron, ademas del MINED, diputados de la
Asamblea Legislativa, universidades y ONG. El seminario, que tuvo lugar en Boston, Massachusets, tenia
el objeto de definir entre todos una visi6n para la educaci6n en un horizonte de 10 anios.
Se implement6 un programa de desarrollo de personal que incluy6 capacitaciones en el pais, viajes de
estudio, pasantias y programas de maestria.
Subcomponente (3.b) Fondo de Innovaciones Educativas
Se estableci6 el Fondo de Innovaciones Educativas (FIE) a traves del cual se contrataron a
municipalidades y a ONG para coadyuvar con el fortalecimiento de las ACE y la participaci6n
comunitaria. Sin embargo, las experiencias piloto, aunque arrojaron lecciones positivas, presentaron
problemas en cuanto a aspectos administrativos del manejo de fondos, y ademas resultaron demasiado
onerosas para ser replicadas a mayor escala.
2.     Resumen de costos y financiamiento del Proyecto
El costo del proyecto fue estimado en US$80.2 millones, US$34 provenientes del BIRF (42.4 por ciento),
US$37.3 (46.5 por ciento) del BID y US$8.9 (11.1 por ciento) del GOES. El nivel de ejecuci6n del
proyecto fue muy buena pues se ejecut6 en un 94 por ciento, 95 por ciento los fondos del BIRF, 81 por
ciento los fondos del GOES y 97 por ciento los fondos del BID. No se dieron retrasos en la ejecuci6n de los
desembolsos, por el contrario, la ejecuci6n se dio de forma adelantada con relaci6n a la programaci6n
inicial.
En un inicio hubo problemas administrativos, pero con la reorganizaci6n de la OPCI (Oficina de Proyectos
- 28 -



de Cooperaci6n Intemacional), pero gracias a la contrataci6n de asistencia t&cnica extema que apoy6 la
reorganizaci6n financiera, los problemas se fueron subsanando.
A pesar del volumen de inversi6n que a veces puso limitaciones a una ejecuci6n mas efectiva, el PNUD y la
OPCI encontraron mecanismos de colaboraci6n.
III.   Principales Factores que afectaron implementaci6n y resultados
1.     Factores fuera del control del Gobierno
El Huracin Mitch, que golpe6 a El Salvador a finales de Octubre de 1998, fue el factor principal que afect6
negativamente la implementaci6n del proyecto. Como resultado del Huracan Mitch, 326 escuelas resultaron
parcial o totalmente daniadas. En muchos de los casos, las escuelas tuvieron que ser totalmente
reemplazadas.
Una misi6n del Banco Mundial visito El Salvador en noviembre de ese afio con el objeto de apoyar al
MINED para reorientar y priorizar las inversiones y el gasto recurrente en los dos proyectos que en ese
momento apoyaba el Banco, uno de los cuales era "Modemizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica", con el fin de
dar respuesta a las necesidades surgidas por la emergencia. La misi6n exarnin6 los informes de situaci6n de
avance financiero y las disponibilidades de fondos del Proyecto. Se identificaron US$2.8 millones
disponibles en el prestarno 3945-ES que podian ser destinados para financiar el reemplazo de libros y
materiales educativo que se perdieron por causas del huracarn Tambien se acord6 que con fondos del
Prestamo 879-OC/ES del BID, se financiaria el reemplazo de materiales educativos y los bonos para el
retiro de escombros, limpieza de escuelas y mantenimiento emergente.
2.     Factores sujetos al control del Gobierno
Compromiso politico: A pesar que el crecimiento econ6mico se desaceler6 y que las cuentas fiscales se
deterioraron a partir de 1996, el presupuesto de educacion crecio, pasando de significar 2.3 por ciento del
PIB en 1996 a 2.9 por ciento en el 2000, lo que refleja el compromiso del gobierno con el sector educativo.
Continuidad de las politicas: El nuevo gobiemo que asumi6 el poder en 1999, asumi6 la refonna educativa
para darle continuidad y avanzar en las politicas implementadas.
3.     Factores sujetos al control del MINED
Permanencia de personal en el MINED: Hasta 1999, la permanencia de las personas a cargo de la cartera
de educaci6n, asi como de los directores en puestos claves del MINED, permitieron continuidad en la
ejecuci6n del proyecto, y alcanzar, y en ciertos casos, sobrepasar las metas programadas. El cambio de
Directores a partir de ese ano permiti6 renovar visiones sobre los procesos de la reforna, para continuarlos
y profundizarlos.
VI.    Hallazgos y lecciones aprendidas
1.     Sostenibilidad
La sostenibilidad del proyecto se asegur6 desde el momento de su concepcion, ya que este respald6 el
programa de reformas del MINED, que habia sido plasmado en el documento de tres tomos, "Reforma
Educativa en Marcha". En la concepci6n de la reforma educativa participaron los diferentes sectores de la
- 29 -



sociedad. El nivel de consenso alcanzado garantiza, hasta cierto punto, la continuidad de las politicas. Con
el cambio de gobiemo, en 1999, las nuevas autoridades asumieron la reforma educativa en marcha,
comprometi6ndose a profundizarla. El Banco Mundial continaa apoyando esta profundizaci6n de la
reforma educativa salvadorefia a trav6s de los prestamos Fase I y Fase II.
2.     Lecciones aprendidas
Participacion de la comunidad La implementaci6n exitosa de EDUCO muestra las bondades de la
participaci6n comunitaria en la implementacion de los servicios educativos. Las ACE han mostrado que
cuando las escuelas son manejadas por los padres de familia, y cuando 6stos y los maestros comparten
responsabilidades, se obtienen mejores resultados en todos los niveles. Se puede observar reduccion en las
tasas de ausentismo de los maestros y, por lo tanto, en los dias de clase que pierden los alumnos.
Apoyo del Provecto a las politicas del MINED: El apoyo del Proyecto a politicas que nacen del propio
MINED y que de alguna manera son compartidas por diferentes sectores del pais, es esencial para
garantizar la sostenibilidad del proyecto.
Lecciones de EDUCO :La experiencia del programa EDUCO, que data desde inicios de los 90, ha tenido un
impacto importante en la concepci6n e implementaci6n de la Reforma Educativa y del Proyecto.
Capacidad de implementaci6n: A pesar de que era primera vez que el MINED tenia un prestamo
compartido entre el Banco Mundial y el BID y que las metas del proyecto eran ambiciosas, el Ministerio
mostro tener una excelente capacidad de implementaci6n y de compromiso para ejecutar el proyecto.
Rol del MINED: Se clarifica el rol norTnador, financiador y de monitoreo y evaluaci6n y seguimiento que
le compete al MINED, trasladando cada vez mayores niveles de autonomia a los centros escolares.
Se sientan las bases para un mayor avance: Se sentaron las bases (instrumentos, sistemas, mecanismos de
transparencia de fondos, etc.) para desarrollar procesos que profundicen y a la vez pongan enfasis en el
tema de calidad de la educaci6n.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The IDB provided the following comrnents on the ICR: "The report clearly summarizes the findings of the
loan project and draws implications for El Salvador for improving the quality and efficiency of education
reforms, especially through innovative mechanisms such as the ones encouraged by the project. Moreover,
the qualitative and quantitative information offer solid evidence about the positive achievements of the
program. The activities carried out by MINED, with the support from both Banks, have provided the basis
for enhancing education quality and effectiveness. Even though the impact of education reforms can only
be measured over time and with continuous supervision and monitoring, the outcomes of the project have
provided the government with the tools for continuing implementing the reforms, evidenced by MINED's
commitment to adopt, support and strengthen the investments introduced by the Project."
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 30 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
i Indtator/Mattix                  Projected.in last PSR               Actua/Latest Estimate
OBJECTIVE 1: INCREASE GROSS          From 88.26 percent in 1993           95.8% in 2000
ENROLMENT IN PRESCHOOL AND
BASIC EDUCATION
(1) Increase preschool coverage from  (1) 203,133 in 2000 (128% of SAR target)
126,048 in 1993 to 158,048 (25% increase)
(2) Increase basic education coverage from  (2) 1,207,494 in 2000 (106.6% of SAR
1,068,704 In 1993 to 1,132,704 (6%  target)
increase)
(3) Increase EDUCO sections from 1,311 in (3) 9,685 EDUCO sections in 2001 (224% of
1993 to 4,311                        SAR target)
OBJECTIVE 2. IMPROVE THE QUALITY
AND EFFECTIVENESS OF BASIC
EDUCATION                            (1) Test results higher by project completion (1) Test scores improved marginally:
(1) Increase student academic achievement compared to first year of test application.  Spanish (1996) =  1.9 grade 3
in core skills in Spanish and Mathematics.                                                   2.2 grade 6
Spanish (2000) =   4.2 grade 3
2.7 grade 6
Mathematics (1996) = 4.0 grade 3
2.9 grade 6
Mathematics (2000) = 4.0 grade 3
(2) Dropout rates in basic education are                1.9 grade 6
(2) Reduce dropout rates             reduced from 1993 figures of 9% in rural  (b) Dropout rates in 2000 were 1% in rural
areas and 2.1 % In urban areas       areas and 1% in urban areas
(3) Reduce repetiton rates           (3) repetiton rates in basic education are
reduced from the 1993 figure of 7.6%  (3) repetition rates in 2000 averaged 6.7%
(4) Improve quality and efficiency in the  (4) Quality and efficiency improvements
provision of services                reflected in the increase in the number of  (4) the number of students completing grade
students completing grade 6 from 21 % in  6 increased by 20.5 % between 1996 and
1993                                 2000
OBJECTIVE 3: SUPPORT MORE            (1) Improve the ability of ACEs and CDEs to (1) Studies have shown that parent's
DYNAMIC AND PARTICIPATORY            manage the provision of education services  participabon in school management impacts
SCHOOL MANAGEMENT                    at the local level                   positvely on educabon efficiency. See
particularty (1998) Jimenez, E. and Yasuyuki,
S. 'Do Community-Managed Schools Work?
An Evaluation of El Salvador EDUCO
Program." World Bank.
(2) Expand the number of ACEs from 263 in
1991 to 2,500 in 2001                (2) 1,959 ACEs were operabng in 2001 (and
2,868 CDEs in 2000, or a total of 4,827
participatory school management
organizabons (193% of SAR target).
- 31 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  ProJected in last PSR;              Actual/Latest Estimate
EXPANSiON OF ACCESS TO
PRESCHOOL AND BASIC EDUCATION
(1) Expansion of preschool dassrooms  (1) From 2,926 in 1993 to 3,926 preschool  (1) 1,064 new preschooi dassroom were
classrooms                           created, reaching a total of 3,990 in 2000
(101.6% of SAR target)
(2) Expansion of basic education dassrooms (2) From 29,203 in 1993 to 31,203  (2) 4,075 new dassrooms were built,
reaching a total of 33,278 in 2000 (106.6% of
(3) Creaton new EDUCO sections and                                       SAR target)
transformabon of existing traditional sections (3) 3,000 new plus 550 transformed EDUCO
into EDUCO sections                  sections, or a total of 3,559 secions  (3) 5,139 new and transformed EDUCO
sections (144.4% of SAR target) financed by
the project, plus 4,546 EDUCO sections
financed by the Govemment, or a total of
9 ,685 sections (272.1% of SAR target)
(4) ACEs strengthened               (4) 2,500 ACEs benefitting from technical
assistance and training              (4) 1,959 ACEs were strengthened (78.4% of
(5) Construction of Classrooms       (5) Build 3,070 new classrooms      SAR target)
(6) Training ACE members                                                l(5) 3,358 new classrooms were built (109.4%
(6) Train 35,780 parents             of SAR target)
(7) Evaluate private institutions and design a                           (6) 49,899 parents were trained (139.5% of
simplified financial transfer system  (7) system development for financial  SAR target)
transfers and evaluation study      (7) sabsfactory completed
IMPROVEMENT IN EDUCATION QUALITY
(1) Booklets for preschool
(1) produce and distribute 807,000 booklets
for preschool                        (1) 427,700 booklets for preschooi were
(2) Textbooks for grades 1-3                                             produced and distributed (53% of SAR
(2) produce and distribute 2,528,000  target)
(3) Workbooks for grade 1            textbooks for grades 1-3            (2) 3,900,000 textbooks (154.3% of SAR
(3) produce and distribute 1,391,000 first  target)
(4) Textbooks for grades 4-6         grade workbooks
(3) 1,196,000 workbooks (86% of SAR
(4) produce and distribute 1,082,000  target)
(5) Textbooks for grades 7-9        textbooks for grades 4-6
(4) 2,71 0,000 textbooks(250.5% of SAR
(5) produce and distribute 521,000 textbooks target)
(6) Create classroom libraries       for grades 79                       (5) 741,760 textbooks (142.4% of SAR
(7) Science kits for grades 7-9     (6) procure and install 3,349 dassroom  target)
libraries
l6) 3,500 classroom libraries (104.5% of
(8) Rehabilitate Model School for Education  (7) produce and distribute 202 scienGe kits  SAR target)
Development (EMDE) infrastructure for  for grades 7-9
teacher training                                                         (7) 202 science kits were produoed and
(8) Rehabilitate and equip 5 EMDE schools  distributed
(9) Carry out studies on (i) teacher training
needs; (ii) teacher training plan; (iii) textbook                        (8) S EMDE schools were rehabilitated and
cost recovery; and (iv) four studies on  (9) Carry out 7 studies         eqpped
secondary education
(10) Train multigrade teachers                                           (9) Complete except for teacher training plan
(10) Train 3,200 multigrade teachers
(11) Train preschool teachers                                            (10) 3,292 multigrade teachers were trained
(11) Train 3.600 preschool teachers  (102.9% of SAR target)
(12) Train teachers for grades 1-6                                       (11)14,210 preschool teachers trained
(12) Train 30,000 teachers for grades 1-6  (394.7% of SAR target)
(13) Train teachers for grades 7-9
- 32-



(12) 71,259 teachers for grades 1-6 were
(13) Train 5,800 teachers for grades 7-9  trained (237.5% of SAR target)
(14) Contract institution to conduct student
achievement test and apply tests                                         (13) 16,929 teachers for grades 7-9 were
(14) Apply tests as follows:        trained (291.9% of SAR target)
4 for grades 3 and 6
2 for grade 9                    (14) A University was contracted to develop
2 for grade 1                    and apply student achievement tests; tests
INSTITUTIONAL MODERNIZATION AND         2 for grade 3                    applied indude:
STRENGTHENING                                                                4 for grades 3 and 6
4 for grade 9
(1) Design, install and operate information                                  4 for grade 1
system covering human resources, statstics,                                  4 for grade 3
budget, infrastructure and materials supply.  (1) MIS with 5 modules
(1) The design of the MIS modules was
completed for education statistics and
evaluation; planning, budgeting and
accounting; infrastructure inventory;
teaching staff. An additonal Integrated
Administration MIS was created consisting of
(2) Education planning system                                            4 modules: human resources, budget,
physical inventories, local administrabon
2) Design an education planning system and modalites. All systems are operation at
(3) Management evaluation system     apply in 14 Departments to 100% urban  different levels of efficiency. The 14
schools and 50% rural schools        Departments are connected by e-mail and
have access to the MIS.
(3) Design management indicators and
(4) Organizabonal development        conduct management evaluations in all  (2) The Planning system has not been fully
Districts in 14 Departments         developed at school level, albeit initial design
was been carried out.
(5) Administration system            (4) Produce Manuals of Functions for
Departmental structures and evaluate  (3) These management evaluations were not
achievements                        fully carried out
(5) More than 50% of schools in 14
Departments have resisted teachers and  (4) Manuals were developed, tested and
(6) Supervisioni system              automated paying and contracting system;  applied
information on teacher vacancies for the
entire country; administrative officials in 14  (5) 100% complete
Departments
(6) Develop supervision guides, train
supervisors and equip supervisor offices in
14 Departments,
(6) Supervisor guides were developed. 243
supervisors were trained and all supervisory
offices were equipped
(7) Budget Allocations               (7) Increase the education budget by 4% of  (7) The education budget increased only by
GDP                                  0.2% of GDP (50% of SAR target)
(8) Budget allocations to preschool and basic (8) Preschool and basic education should  (8) Actual preschool and basic education
education                            account for 80% of the MINED budget  budget reached 68% of MINED's budget in
2000 (85% of SAR target)
(9) Counterpart funds               (9) Timely provision of oounterpart funds  -
End of project
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal - ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component-           US$ million  US$ million
A. Expansion of Access to Preschool and Basic      11.25         17.50          155.6
Education
B. Improvement in Education Quality               44.11          39.19           88.9
C. Institutional Modernization                     12.41         16.45          132.6
D. Project Coordination and Management              4.46          3.79             85
IDB Inspection and Supervision Fund                 0.37          0.13           35.1
Total Baseline Cost                                72.60         77.06
Physical Contingencies                             2.71
Price Contingencies                                4.92
Total Project Costs            80.23          77.06
Total Financing Required            80.23          77.06
ProJect Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category,               rocurement M   hTotal Cost
.  ..,..Other                            Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         6.60        6.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    12.50         0.60         3.90        21.30        38.30
(11.30)      (0.50)        (3.50)       (0.00)      (15.30)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        15.70        12.30        28.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (14.70)       (0.00)      (14.70)
5. Operating Costs           0.00         0.00         6.20         1.10        7.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.00)       (0.00)      (4.00)
Total                     12.50        0.60         25.80        41.30       80.20
(11.30)      (0.50)       (22.20)      (0.00)       (34.00)
-34-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Irdcurement, Mehod.
-Expenditure Category -N.B                                            N.. F. -TotaliCost
. . -ks  t  .  .   s   .   l -OtherA           1   _   _
1. Works                        0.00          0.00          0.00          11.10         11.10
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        9.43          2.14          8.18          15.49         35.24
(8.06)        (1.93)        (6.94)        (0.00)        (16.93)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          14.16         9.88          24.04
(0.00)        (0.00)        (12.13)        (0.00)       (12.13)
5. Operating Costs              0.00          0.00          6.68          0.00          6.68
(0.00)         (0.00)       (4.94)        (0.00)        (4.94)
Total                        9.43          2.14          29.02         36.47         77.06
(8.06)         (1.93)       (24.01)        (0.00)       (34.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) IDB inspection and supervision fund.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Corponent             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.     Bank   Govt.  Co'F.
A. Expansion of Access to  6.50    0.80      5.20     4.59       1.82     11.10    70.6  227.5  213.5
Preschool and Basic
Education
B. Improvement in       17.00      4.80     27.40     16.43      2.70     20.06    96.6   56.3   73.2
Education Quality
C. Institutional         8.10      2.20      3.03     11.35      0.92     4.17    140.1   41.8   137.6
Modernization
D. Project Coordination  2.40      1.13      1.30      1.63      1.15     1.01     67.9   101.8  77.7
and Management
IDB Inspection Fund      0.00      0.00     0.37      0.00       0.00     0.13     0.0    0.0    35.1
- 35 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
A marginal rate of return of GOES' medium term education plan for expanding coverage and reducing
repetition and dropout rates was calculated in the SAR. The economic analysis presented in the SAR did
not include a detailed econometric work. It estimated a rudimentary internal rate of return for the project
based on the following assumptions:
i. a higher coverage will demand additional resources. The annual cost was assumed to increase at an
annual rate of 7 percent until 1999 and 5 percent thereafter;
ii. dropout decisions will be postponed by a year, allowing the average wage of those students who
dropout to increase. It was estimated that the average income of primary school dropout would
increase by 10 percent. The income differential was multiplied by the projected number of dropouts
from 1995-2004;
iii. increase access to education services was assumed to translate into higher wages. This extra annual
income was assumed to be the same as in the case of postponing dropout decisions (e.g. 10 percent). It
was applied to the difference between the enrollment in the three cycles of basic education within the
public sector with and without the project; and
iv. the project would result in significant internal efficiency gains as evidenced by a reduction in the
repetition rates. This reduction was estimated as 20 percent, therefore, allowing for substantial cost
savings.
Based on the above assumptions the annual real marginal rate of return was calculated as 19.7 (see Table 1
and Table on IRR Calculation in Original SAR). Although, it is to early in the economic life of the project
to assess economic gains, the ICR updated available indicators to the year 2000, and recalculated the
expected IRR. The update IER remains valid at approximately 20%, if projections related to repetition
rates, additional school years and earning potential remain up to the year 2024.
Table 1: Costs of Expanding Preschool and Basic Education Coverage (US$
millions)
Level         1995           1996          1997          1998          1999           2000
Preschool     _              _-            -             -                    -
Estimate      2             3              4             5             7              7
Actual        1              3      .      4             4             6             56
Basic (costs with program
Estimate      1115          1127          1141          1155           1172          1184
Actual        180           196           1103           106           1119          119
Table 2: Repetition Rates
Level      Years per Graduate Education      Annual   Total   Total Cost Cost of  Cost Savings due
Wastage (years)  Cost per No. of           Repetition to 1 Year
Student Students                    Reduction in
(US $)                              Repetition
Effective Academic  Total Repetition
Basic          19.         9    10.4      4.5      149 1,060,00 157.940m  36,635,567 8,141237
Primary        10.1        6     4.1     3.69
HI Cycle        3.9        3     0.9     0.81
Transference to 3 Cycle           1       5.4
- 36 -



Table 3: Years of Schooli
Years of schooling   Employees      Income   Difference by preceding  Sum
(thousands)                      grade
I to 3                         377    7,980                            1.26   3,008,460
1.26
4 to 6                         411    9,708                            1.54    3,989,988
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1.2 2
7 to 9                         233   10,908                            1.72   2,541,564
1.12
10 to 12                       197   15,672                            2.48   3,087,384
__ _ _ _ 1.44
13 and above                   12    25,668                            4.06   3,234,168
1.64                    _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _
Total (thousands)                                                             18,618,828
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 ,7 8 0   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __         _ _ _ _
10,460.02
1,195
1,315
Increased Earning Power
In terms of the benefits of increased earning power, years of schooling for the student population between
the ages of 15 and 18 years increased from 5.75 percent in 1995 to 6.9 percent in 2000. This translated
into an increase of 1.5 years of schooling. Also, using data regarding the relationship of wages and years of
schooling from Dewes et al, the ex-post calculations show an increase in the potential average income of
primary education graduates of 11.5 percent instead of the 10 percent projected in the SAR. Thus, the
ex-post calculations show slightly higher benefits than those originally projected.
Updated Rate of Return
Although there was not a substantial cost savings resulting from lower repetition rates, the ex-post
calculations do show that there is great potential for economic gains with regards to labor income as a
result of increased years of schooling and a focus on improving the education opportunities and quality for
the rural poor. Taking into account the lower costs of expanding preschool and basic education and the
increased benefits of years of schooling, then the updated calculation for the IRR is estimated at 21 percent;
thus the original projections of the SAR remain valid.
In short, the benefits of the project investments-during its economic life-can still be expected to: (i)
create skills that lead to higher earnings of those benefiting under the project; (ii) result in significant
internal efficiency gains; and (iii) generate cost savings as result of lower repetition rates, thus freeing
public funds for other high priority education investments.
- 37 -



0000 ooOoOOO     oo' 0000000 o0
000      0        OooOOOO         0 0 0
0       0 00000000000 0      0 0 0    0    0 0 0         0
0 0  000000000000000     0 0 0 -    0  0 - 0  0 0 0000000
0  00000000000000          0 00 0  0     00 0   00000
0      0   00000000        0 0 0         0 0 0  0 0    0 0
.oo0 0000000           o-00 00 00000      0 o0o 0 0
0 0 0 0 000000000  0 0 000 0 0 000000 - - 0 0 0 0  0 00000000000000       0  0
0 *0 0 0 0 '0 '.. 0000o0 0  0 o 0 0 0  000000          0   0
0     -                                      - .  -  . 0  0  0  0     0  0
ooOO.. 0000-   0   0  000    -0000       0000
0 0 00000000000000         0 0 0 0  '0   0 00   0 - 0 0
0      0   0.0000 .. o     0 0            0 0   ..
oooO ooOOOOo     00     Ooooot0 00 00000      0 000 0 0   0 0 o ooo 0 00 00000
00000000000 o a o       o a 0 0 0  -              0 0 0
0 000000000 0 0  o - a -     0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  00000000 0 0 0 0 000000
0 000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0  0  0 0 0  0 0000   o.00 a
0                     0  0  -: '0 o  0 0  0       '0  -        o 0 0       0   0
.oot 0000000000 00      Ooooo
00 o  0 0000     0 00  0 0  0 0 0 000 0 00 00000
00 0 0 0 0 0 0000000 0 0 0 o 0 0000000 0o00000  0000000000000000          0  0
0 00  0 0 0 00 00 000  0 0  0 0 0 0 0 0  0  0  0 000  0  0  -  0  0  0  -  0  -
0 0000 0-000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 - 0 0 0 0 0  0  0  0 0 0  000000000
000000000000000          0 0 00  0     0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0
o      0   00000000        000           000    0 0    0 0
oooooooooooooo   00    Ooooo$0 O   00000     0 oO- 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 000 00000 $
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 000000000000 000 000 0 000000
OoO 0-0-000000 00        000000 0    0909       90*0 '0 o 0 0 0        0  0 0
0  00000000000000          0000    0     000    0 0 0 0 0
0      0   00000000        0 0 0         0 0 0  - 0    0 0
00000000000000 00000 000..
000       00 o  - 0000     0 cOo o 0  0 '0 '0 o 0 0 0000000
0 0 0     0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  000000 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0  0 .. 0
0 000000000000000          0 0 0 0  0    0 0 0  00000
0      0   0000000 0       0 0 0         00 0   0 0    0 0
OooOoOOooooOOO   *--: 000o00 0oooooo      0 0 000 - 0   0 0 0 0000000000
00 o 0 00000 0 0 0 0 0  0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  00000 0 0000000000   0 0 0
ooo0.ooooooooo    0     Ooooo0F 0 00000    0 0 cO 00000000         0 00 00000
00 00000000- oCo 0 000 0 0 000000000000     0 0000000
00000000000 00000     .                          .      0 0 0          0  0
0 0000000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  0000000  0 0 000   0-00            0
00000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0     0 0 0 0  0    0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0 0
0      0   0000000 0       0 0 0         00 0  0 0 0 0  0 0
OoOOooOO 000000        0000000 00 00000    0 00000000        0 0 0 0 00-0000
0000000000000000000 00000000000000          0 0 000 0 00
0     .    0  0  0       0
0 00   000 00-00 0 00 0 0  0 0 0 0  0    0 0 0  00000
Ooo0oooooooooooo        Ooooooo 0      000    0 ooo       a
ho       0000000000000 00        00     0     000     0 '000
0 0 0 0 0 0 oooooo ooZ''"'0'0 0 0    0 0 0   0 0 0 0    0
U                              00..0..0-       . .            0
00   oooooooow o0COoow        0      000    0 0c0       0
o           0    0000000        000           00      000
I-
o       Ooooooo 00000000       Ooooo$0        cOo     o oOO                           0
0000000000000000000000000             000     0000
_       --.0.000 0....
U    ;a'00:.000:.o-         00000          -'00    0000
U
2                                                             0   0
C
C          o                           0
C
U                                      0
000                       0                        :
a          0 00    0                                      .
0          -  0   0 0
0    0          =0 00 00
*                 o
0=                                                               0
:::.g.               00>A0 :: 0 0                              :.
-                             0.ww' oo'
00000       0. *  Oo a
0  0 0      0  0  0  0 0  0  0            0    0
'-'-A-'-'- 000 0.OOoOO 0.00 "ooooOZU  00 000 000O0000. Wa     ooEoEoo a



2009       2010       2011       2012       2013       2014       2010       2016       2017       2010       2019       2020        2021       2022       2023       2024
109.854    1 A11031   113.252    115,517    1 17,827   120.183    122,587    125,039    127,540    130.090     132.892    1 35,346   1 36,003   140,014    1 43,630   146
103.811    100,9887   109,004    1 10,165   112,369    114,615    116,908    119,246    121,631    1 24,063   126,044    129,075     1 31,657   134.290    136.976    139
5,043      5,144      5.247      5,302      0.459      5,568      0,680      5,793      0,909      6.027      6,148      6,271       6.396      6,524      6,600      6
40 9%      40 9%      40 9%      40 9%      4090%      40 9%      40 9%      40 9%      40 9%      40 9%      40 9%       40 9%      40 9%      40 9%      40 9%      4
266.449    271,778    277,214    262.758    286,413    294,182    300,060    306,067    312.1$8    319,432    324.800     331.296    337,922    344,661    301,574    359
103.811i   105.887    108.004    110.165    112.388    114.615    118.908    119,246    12l.631    1 24,063   126,544    128.075     131,607    1 34,290   136.976    139
61,886     63,124     64,307     60.874     66,888     66,328     69,684     71,086     72.510     73.980      75,439     78.948     78.497     80,057     91.600     83
41.924     42,763     43,619     44,480     45,390     46,288     47,213     48,168     48,121     00,102      51,105     52,127     53,170     54,232     00,319     56
i1,19.368  1,141.753  1,164,588  1.187,880  1.21 1.637  1,239,870  1,260,587  1.288,789  1,311,910  1.337.745  1,364,500  1.391,790  1,415,626  1,448,019  1,476,879  1.506
497.199    557,599    01 7,240   527,585    528.136    548,889    058,877    571.070    592,496    594,146    806.029     618,150    630,513    643,123    655,990    669
622.211    824.605    647,349    660,298    873.501    6886,971   700,710    714,724    729,019    743,599    758,471     773.641    789,113    904,896    820,984    837
992631     1512482    1022732    1053388    1574400    1085945    117683     1140221    1163025    1186286    1210011    1234212    1258896    1284074     1309755    13351
3848688    392361     400209     408213     416377     424700     433199     441863     4505705    459714     468958     478286      487652     497609     507061     0177
607862     620122     632524     645175     656078     671240     664669     696308     712320     728572      741103     755920     771044     786465     803194     6182
174.323    177,815    181.366    184,893    198,692    192,467    196.318    250,243    204,246    208,333    212,499    216,749     221,064    225,506    230,016    224
818,307    834,674    851.387    968,394    885,762    903,477    921,540    939,978    958,778    977,903    587,512   1,017,462  1.037,912  1,058,568   1.079,739  1,101
126735     129289     131655     134492     137182     139825     142724     145578     148490     151460     154499      157579     165730     163945     167224     17
112487     114737     117531     119372     121759     124195     126879     129212     131796     134432     137121      139963     142661     145014     148424     IS
14248      14533      14824      15120      18422      15731      16045      18366      16654      17028      17368       17715      18070      18431      18000      I
85 4%      85 4%      85 4%      85 4%      85 4%      85 4%      89 4%      85 4%      85 4%      80 4%      95A4%       85 4%      85 4%      95 4%      95 4%      9
1,106,039  1,P128,670  1,151,244  1,1 74,246  1.197,754  1,221,709  1,246,143  1,271,066  1,P296,487  1,322,417  1,349,865  1,375,943  1,403,360  1,431,427  1.480,055  1,469
807.963    620.122    632,524    640,1 75   686,006    671,240    68,4.685   696,358    712,325    726,572     741,103    755,925    771,044    788,465    002,194    919
166.124    1 69,446   172.830    176,292    1 79,818   163,414    187.082    190,824    194,641    198,533    202,504     206,554    210,695    214,899    219,197    223
35,893     38,601     37.332     38.590     39,941     39,618     40,410     41,219     42,043     42,684     43,742      44,616     45,509     46,419     47,347     48
22%        22%        22%        22%        22%        22%        22%        22%        22%        22%         22%        22%        22%        22%        22%
20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%        20%         20%        20%        20%        20%        20%
32,904     33,582     24,233     34,918     35,816     36,328     37,055     37,796     38,552     39.323      40,109     40.812     41,730     42,564     43,416      44
270        284        298        313        329        345        382        381        405        420         441        463        486        510        536
11,339     12,144     13,007     13,930     14,919     10,979     17,11 3    18,329     19,629     21.023     22,516     24,114      25,826     27,660     29,624     31
906        9863       924        990       1.080      1,136      1,218      1,303      1,395      1,494      1,600      1.714      1,836       1,966      2,105      2
992,631   1,012,483  1,532,723  1.053.388  1,074,455  1,095,945  1, 117,863  1,140.221  1,163,025  1,186,286  1,21 0,01t1  1.224,212  1,258,896  1,284.074  1,309,700  1,335
384,668    392,381    400,208    408,213    416,377    424,709    433.199    441,883    450,700    459,714    468,908     478,286    467,952    497,609    507,561     517
607,963    620,122    632.524    845,175    658,578    871,240    684,885    698,358    712,325     729.572    741,103    755,920    771,044    796,465    802.194     818
174,323    1 77, 81I0  181,366   184,993    188.893    1 92,467   196.318    200,243    204,248    208,333    212,499     216,749    221,094    225,5008   230,016    234
918,307    834,674    891,367    869,394    885,762    803,477    921,547    939,978    959.778     977,953    897,512  1,017,462  1,037,912   1,058.568  1,079,739  1,101
7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%        7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%       7 7%
86.191     87.915     89.673     91,467     93,298     95,162     97.065     99,007    100,987     103,006    105,067    107,169    159,311    111,497     113,727    116
691,784    705,820    719.732    734,127    748,810    762,788    779,061    794,643    810,536     826,746    843,281    990,147    877,350    894,897    91 2,790    931
126.023    128,054    131,835    1234,267   136.953    139.692    142,488    145,335    148,242     151,207    154,231    157,216    160,462    163,971    166,045     170
5co   500  55     00        5       00  5      00  55  5 00       5 00       5 00       5 00        5500       5 00       5 00       5 00       0 00        5 00
1 858      1 951      2 049      2 151      2.259      22372      2 490      2 61 5     2.746      2 885       2 027      3 179      3 337      3 504       3 680      3
24 31      28 03      27 88      28 86      31 98      34 25      36 69      39 29      42 08       45 07      48 27      51 69      052 6      59 30       63 50      6
35 68      38.22      40 93      43 84      46,95      55 28      53 85      57 68      61 77       66 16      70 85      75 86      81 27      87 04       93.22      9
59 99      64 25      6981e      73.70      78813      5453       80084      98897     153985     111 22      119,12     127 59     136864     14634       156 73     18
270        284        299        313        329        348        362        381        405         425        441        463        498        510         536
221        237        254        272        291        312        324        358        383         410        439        471        504        540         578
187        200        215        220        246        264        282        302        324        347         372        398        426        456         489
34         37         39         42         40         48         52         55         59          63         es         73         78         83          89
Il         12         13         14         15         16         17         18         20         21          22         24         28         29          30
14.43      15 46      16 55      17 73      19 99      25 33      21 78      23 32      24 98      29 75       28865      30 68      32 87      30 20       37 70      4
14         15         17         18         19         20         22         23         25          27         29         31         33         35          38
15         14         17         18         19         20         31         22         23         24          25         26         27         28          29
0 83       0 73       0 60       0.57       0.51       0.45       0.45       0,30       0 31        028        0 24       0 22       0 19       0 17        0 15
- 39 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Lending/Appraisal/Negotiation
February-March             21
1995
Supervision
October 1996                13   Education Specialists (IDB),      HS            HS
Sector Leader, Procurement
Analyst, Financial
Management Specialist,
Consultants, Education
Specialist (WB), Social
Development & Civil Society
Specialist
April 1997                   7   Sector Leader, Procurement        HS            HS
Analyst, Household Survey
Coordinator, Education
Specialist (VWB), Education
Specialist (IDB), Financial
Management Specialist
September 1997               5   Sector Leader, Education          HS            HS
Specialist, Procurement Analyst,
Consultants
May 1998                     5   Operation Officer, Education      HS            HS
Specialist, Consultants,
Procurement Analyst
November 1998                3   Sector Leader, Procurement        HS            HS
Analyst, Education Specialist
January 1999                 2   Household Survey Coordinator,     HS            HS
Economist, Evaluation Specialist,
May 1999                    11   Sector Leader, Consultants
September 1999               2   Education Economist, Sector       HS            HS
Leader, Education Specialist,
Procurement Analyst, Operation
Officer, Sr. Institutional
Development Specialist
November 1999                1   Consultant                        HS             S
January 2000                13   Sector Leader, Education Sector
Manager, Education Specialist,
Education Economist,
Consultants, Lead Sociologist
September 2000               4   Sector Leaders, Sr. Institutional  S             S
Development Specialist,
Consultant
January 2001                 1   Sr. Institutional Development      S             S
Specialist
- 40 -



ICR
February 2002               4    Sr. Institutional
Development Specialist,
Consultants
March 2002                  3    Sr. Institutional Development     S             S
Specialist, Consultants
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Lending/AppraisaVNegotiation              na                       530.9
Supervision                               na                      300.2
ICR                                       na                        39.2
Total                                     na                       870.1
Note: The budget system does not register staff weeks.
-41 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM      ON * NA
O Sector Policies                    OH *SUOM       O N O NA
0 Physical                           *H   OSUOM     ON    ONA
O Financial                          O H *SUOM O N O NA
Z Institutional Development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Gender                       O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management           0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
nOther (Please specify)              OH OSUOM ON * NA
- 42 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS       OLU   OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
IS Government implementation performance            O HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
-43-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Castro De Perez, A., Meza, D. X., Guzman, J.L. "En el Camino de la Transformacion Educativa de El
Salvador-1989 - 1999" (2000).
Larde de Palomo, A., "Informne Nacional de Cierre" (May 3, 2002).
Larde de Palomo, A., "Updated Economic Analysis of El Salvador Basic Education Modernization Project"
(May 1, 2002)
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Educacion en El Salvador en Cifras" (1998).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Informes Anexos al Informe Nacional de Cierre Del Proyecto
Modemizacion de Educacion Basica" (Febrero 2002).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Informe de Evaluaci6n del Programa de Estudio de 60 Grado de
Educacion Basica" (1997).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "La Nueva Educacion en el Nuevo Milenio - 2000-2005" (1999).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Proyecto de Modemizacion de Educacion Basica en el Corazon de la
Reforma Educativa en Marcha" (May 1999).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Proyecto de Modernizacion de Educacion Basica - Reforma
Educativa en Marcha" (1999).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Reforma Educativa en Marcha - Un vistazo al Pasado de la
Educacion en El Salvador" (Documento I) (1995).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Reforma Educativa en Marcha - Un vistazo al Pasado de la
Educacion en El Salvador - Consulta 95" (Documento II) (1994-1999).
Ministerio de Educaci6n El Salvador "Reforma Educativa en Marcha - Un vistazo al Pasado de la
Educacion en El Salvador - Lineamientos del Plan Decenal 1995-2005" (Documento III) (1995).
Reyes, J., "El Salvador -The Case of a Successful Community-Managed Education Program, EDUCO"
(February 2002).
The World Bank, Central America Country Management Unit, "Memorandum of the President of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors
on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of El Salvador - Report 22932-ES" (November 2001).
The World Bank, Central America Country Management Unit, "Memorandum of the President of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors
on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of El Salvador - Report 16307" (February 1997).
- 44 -



Additional Annex 8. Quality at Entry Elements
Table 1: Key Assessment Areas
Project Concept, Objectives and Approach. The Project was fully satisfactory with respect to the
responsiveness of its conceptual framework, objectives and approach with the CAS, the issues identified in the
sector work, and with general Bank policies in the sector. For instance, expenditures in education, including the
EDUCO project, were analyzed in the context of Public Sector Budget. Similarly, there was positive and effective
cross fertilization and sharing of experiences, procedures, practices and development.
Technical, Economic and Financial Analyses. The project carefully identified key areas which have an impact
on education quality. The in-country capacity for conducting national assessments was very limited. The project
sought to improve this by developing a national evaluation system. At the same time, it fully acknowledged the
limitations and constraints that might be encountered (e.g lack of local experience and expertise in designing,
developing and maintaining such systems). In terrns of the development of new curricula, textbooks and
associated teaching materials, the project was successful in ensuring that the curriculum elements were
pedagogically sound and that textbooks and other materials were well designed and presented. The economic
rationale underpinning the projects showed that repetition and drop out rates were a serious problem. Teacher
training was identified as a priority which would help address these issues. Also, the project aimed at expanding
expenditure per pupil by building on recent experiences where public sector funds are complemented with
private sector contributions at the school level. The project was grounded on detailed analysis of current public
sector allocations to primary education. Thus, it was carefully framed within budget constraints, ensuring that
the budget limitations guided preparatory work towards targeted interventions.
Social and Stakeholder Analysis. A social assessment (SA) was carried out prior to appraisal. The SA
analyzed the organizational and legal framework of the education system, identified the main stakeholders, and
assessed their comrnitment to the proposed reform. Consultation with other donors, parents, teachers, teacher
unions, school administrators, and NGOs was a key feature. In this regard, the quality at entry assessment
considered the stakeholder analysis dimension as best practice. In tenus of social impact, the project did not
provide a detailed evaluation of the costs and benefits on specific social groups.
Institutional Capacity Analysis. The project supported national educational reforms and reflected commitment
at the highest levels of decision-making. The project included direct performance incentives and competitive
procurement procedures. It also built on a well documented pilot, the EDUCO Program, which provided all
institutions with documented experience and a track record for decentralization to the community level. Also, the
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Education was assessed. In retrospect, one limnitations was the lack of
a comprehensive human resources analysis for implementing each project component.
Readiness for Implementation. This was measured by the progresses achieved at the timne the project was
presented to the Board, in terns of: (i) organizing and staffLng the project implementing agencies; (ii) defining
operational instruments, the implementation plan, and the bidding documents; and (iii) activating the
co-financing arrangements (BIRF, IDB and GOES). The review panel concluded that the project was best
practice.
Risk Analysis and Sustainability. The risk analysis conducted linked sustainability to a fiscal base scenario and
dealt with the risks incurred in the implementation of its most sensitive components. This was a positive
feature. Nevertheless, the project could have benefited from an assessment of its benefits to risks (entire project
and main components) and from an analysis of different fiscal impact scenarios.
Source: Post Approval Quality at Entry Assessment conducted in 1997
-45-



Table 2: Score-Card: El Salvador Basic Education Modernization Project
Strengths                                          Weaknesses
*     Strong government ownership supported by       * Fiscal impact analysis limited to only one and
local communities, teachers and their unions           rather optimistic scenario
*     Clear objectives and design rooted in pilot    * Insufficient analysis of alternative designs of
results                                                main project components
*     Project design incorporating
recommendations of sector work on education,
poverty, and public sector reform
*     Cross-sectoral linkages between education,
health, and nutrition
*     Impact monitoring indicators with
numerical targets for reduction of repetition and
drop out rates.
*     Well studied teacher performance incentive
system
*     Realistic and well defined financing plan
*     Establishment of dedicated implementation
units, within MOE and with MOE staff, no
implement various components. (programs).
*     Joint preparation team/SAR with IDB which
shares financing
Timely availability of basic information/documentation relevant to project objectives and design
* Substantial sector work on community education strategy and decentralized school management was carried
out as part of project preparation.
* Poverty report was available prior to sector work.
* Social Assessment was available after completion of project preparation.
* CAS was presented in connection with Second SAL to the Country and available at the time of project
identification.
* No formal PER available but ample information on fiscal management and public expenditures in education
sector available in SAL and sector work documentation.
Specialized Inputs
*     Fully satisfactory throughout project preparation and early implementation.
Source: Post-Approval Quality at Entry Assessment conducted in 1997.
- 46 -



Additional Annex 9. Stated and Actual Project Goals by Subcomponent
Subcomnonent (1.a) Exoansion of Access to Preschool and Basic Education
Table 1
Expansion of Access to Preschool and Basic Education
Stated and Actual Goals
Objective                  Level                 SAR Goals              Actual Goals
Increased New EDUCO      Preschool                1,000 new sections                1,064
Sections                 1st and 2nd Cycle (grades 2,000 new sections              4,075
1-6))
TOTAL                    3,000                             5,139
Covert Traditional       Preschool-6th Grade     3,000 sections                     467
Sections to EDUCO
Model
Construct and Rehabilitate Preeschool-6th Grade  3,070 classrooms                   3,358
EDUCO Classrooms        I        _I                                      I
I In September 1997, this goal was reprogrammed from 3,000 sections to only 550 sections
which were in schools with mix traditional/EDUCO modalities. The rest of traditional rural
schools assumed the new school-based management model called CDE, Consejo Directivo
Escolar.
Table 2
Growth of EDUCO:
Classrooms, Community Committees (ACEs) , Teachers and Students
1991-2001
Year Classrooms     Cumulative    ACEs' Cumulative      Teachers   Cumulative   Students'   Cumulative
1994 1    2316                    1,334                   2,316        _          74,112
1995 1    1,238        3,554        7        1,341        603         2,919       39,616      113,728
1996      1,725        5,279       359        1,700       952         3,884       54,944      168,672
1997       783         6,062        59        1,705       312         4,196       25,656      193,984
1998       386         6,448       -65        1,640        173        4,369       12,352      206,336
1999       967         7,415        91        1,722        334        4,703       30,944      237,280
2000       859         8,271       112        1,811        636        5,339       27,392      264,672
2001      1,411        9,682       148        1,959        880        6,219       28,160      309,824
Source: Ministry of Education (MINED), La Autonomia Escolar y el Programa EDUCO, San Salvador, 2001.
I From 1995, MINED began creating one ACE per community; before an ACE was created for each
education level (preschool and basic levels). Thus, in some years the number of ACEs may be
negative.
2There is an approximately average of 30 students per classroom.
- 47 -



Subcomponent (2.b) Strengthenin2 the EDUCO Program
Table 3
Strengthening the EDUCO Program: Community Education Management Impact
Indicattors
Objective       Strengthening Area          Impact Indicator                    Results
Strengthen the  Administrative Capacity     _       ,__ _ __                                ,__
capacity of                           Transparent management of  An external financial audit (of all
community                             financial resources at the  EDUCO ACEs) showed 99.4%
education                             community level.           transparency and compliance with
committees                                                       accounting processes.
(ACEs) and of   Support Increased     Teacher Attendance         EDUCO teachers attend on average 5
commumnty       Attendance of Teachers                           days a week (out of a 5.5 day week) in
parents in general and Students                                  comparison with an average of 2.7 days
attendance by teachers in traditional
schools.
Student Attendance          EDUCO students miss on average 1.57
days (in a 4 week period) in comparison
with 1.72 days for traditional schools.
Parental presence in the    EDUCO parents visit classrooms
classroom                   approximate 5.7 times during the month
(in comparison with 1.7 parental rnonthly
visits in traditional schools)
Support teachers in their Support in preparation of  A Qualitative study of EDUCO identified
pedagogical activities  didactic materials       that mothers are supporting teachers in
the development of self-made didactic
material.
Provide homework support/time 25% of fathers and 29% of mothers help
after school               their kids with their homework, and 83%
at least provide homework time after
school and before other chores
Community management Community activities to support A Qualitative study of community
of education and other  improvements in the school  processes in EDUCO identified that
sector development    environment                 communities are identifying support and
activities            Development of alliances with  resources from NGOs and municipalities
NGOS and municipalities.    in favor of their development projects in
Existing community          cuucation and in other sectors.
development programs in other
sectors
- 48 -



Table 4
Strengthening the EDUCO Program
Stated and Actual Goals
Objectives    Macro Activities     Indicator                         Achievements
Increased Capacity Increased number Average no. of      *     The number of school BONOS increased from one
of Parental       of ACEs functions programs and         Bono de Calidad (Quality Education Transfer) to 16
Community                         financial transfers   "Bonos" for different school programs.
Education                         (BONOS) to the
Conmmittees (ACEs)                ACEs.
to Manage Other
Education                                                '    Total schools transfers were US$3,817,143 in
Responsibilities                                         1996; 8,185,503 in 1997; 10,610,514 in 1998; 5,784,838
in 1999; 12,767,406 in 2000; and, 32,812,273 in 2001.
Training of     Increased Parental     *     The improved pensum included not only
Parents         Training Pensum and    administrative courses, but also on team building, conflic
Improved              resolution, family life, child development and rights,
Methodology            initial education, and rural community development
planning.
*     From 1996, experiential training methodologies,
based on discussion and analysis parental own
experiences with organization, management, and
monitoring of schools.
Improved parental Simplified financial  *    TA contracted to evaluate and simplify financial
administration  processes              processes from three EDUCO financial centers in San
Salvador, San Miguel and Santa Ana, which were later
decentralized further at the departmental level (14
centers).
*     EDUCO financial processes incorporated into the
general SAFI (Integrated Financial System) of the
Government.
Administration         *     12 administrative instruments were revised,
Instrunents simplified  simplified, and consolidated to only 6
Improved TA and   Carry an NGO TA Available pilot results  *  NGO and private providers were capacitated
Training to EDUCO and Training Pilot
Community         Training program  Supervisors,         *     210 supervisors and 15 departmental directors
of decentralized  Departmental         have been trained approx. 24hrs annually (in legal,
staff and teachers Directors and       administrative and community participation strategies).
Teachers Trained
Regarding EDUCO.       *     Approximate 4,000 EDUCO teachers were trained
annually.
*     New teachers every year received a 40hr induction
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __   program.
Lessons Learned  No. of Students       *     More than 30 studies and evaluations have been
Disseminated    Prepared and           prepared and disseminated.
Disseminated
- 49 -



Subcomponent (2.a) Curriculum DeveloDment
Table 5: Major Achievements in Curriculum Development
DIMENSIONS      OBJECTIVES      CURRICULUM       METHODOLOGIES         EDUCATIONAL             EVALUATION
THEMES                                RESOURCES
MACRO            Establishes the Its sources and   Constituted by all the Constituted by a series of Refers to a global
CURRICULUM       objectives of the fundamental guiding  general guiding  resources, actions and  evaluation of the
El Salvadorean principles are the  principles that direct situations of national  educational system in terms
educational   universal areas of  and structure     reach; promoted by the  of general and specific
system        knowledge. They are curriculum design.  State or other domestic,  impact on the policies,
called upon to                        foreign, public and/or  plans and national
structure coherently,                 private agent choosing to curriculum.
systematically and                    support the educational
sequentially the                      system.
learning of the entire
educational system.                     .
MESO             Establishes the Establishes an    Constituted by the  Constituted by the tools, Refers to an overall
CURRICULUM       objectives of  outlining framework  methodological   resources, actions and  evaluation of the different
each level and  of basic learning by  guiding principles of situations conceived,  educational levels and
the modality to area, educational  each level and   organized and produced  modalities, with particu]ar
be used,      level, respective cycle modality. Gradually in function of a level,  attention to the diagnostic
reflecting the  and modalities.  detaching the      cycle, modality or     results of the graduating
results from the These are set in the  pertinent     learning area. Its reach  students, curriculum
needs-assessme curriculum and study recommendations by  has been outlined by the  areas/instruments and
nts and       plans of each level  level, cycles and  methodologies and    educational methodologies
diagnostics   and system modality. areas.           objectives of the different & resources.
carried out.                                        levels, cycles, modalities
and leaming areas.
MICRO            Establishes the ______............................... Refers to the evaluation of
educational                                          .....                 the educational centers in
INSTITUTIONAL objectives of                                                                 terms of their curriculum
CURRICULUM       each didactic                                                              administration and in terms
unit or module;                                                            of their institutional
these are                                                                  education projects.
derived from
the institutional
objectives and
adapted to
students' needs.
MICRO            Established the Establishes an    Constituted by the  Constituted by the   Refers to the evaluation of
objectives for  outlining framework  specific       resources, actions and  teachers' curriculum
CURRICULUM - each didactic     for learning within  methodological and  situations that teachers  practices, including their
unit or module; the different didactic didactic options that  adapt into their daily  development process and
CLASSROOM        these are     units or modules.   teachers incorporate  pedagogic practices  the learning success of
derived from th                  into their planned  within their planned  students.
institutional                     curriculum.        curriculum.
objectives and
adapted to the
students' needs.
Source: Taken from "La Reforma Educativa". El Sistema Educativo en El Salvador. Colecci6n Fundamentos de la Educaci6n que Queremos. May,
1999.
- 50 -



Box 1: Additional Key Achievements
* At the local level, the key principles of the national curriculum have been incorporated, including equity, flexibility and
an interdisciplinary approach.
* The Schools for Fathers and Mothers have been established. The reform has been a strong and effective promoter o
these organizations in all educational facilities, and through it tools are offered to facilitate the family's ability to cop
and support the local learning process.
* The contests and competitions represent part of the curriculum's supporting activities. Since 1996 there have been an
equal number held in Math, Spanish and Literature. These have been sponsored by private enterprises and are held fror
the district level to the national level.
* In the arts, key events have been carried out.
* The development of Physical Education from 1997 to the implementation of Student Sporting Games.
* There has been systematic dissemination through regular communication channels such as newspapers, educational pages
and booklets which have strengthened the process of curriculum implementation.
* Successfil development and application of alternative pedagogical methods, such as: multigrade, gifted & talented
distance-learning and adult education.
Box 2: Overall Impact of Improved Curriculum in Preschool and 3'I Cycle
* At the Pre-School level, Child-Care Centers have been instituted, which apply two of the new curriculum strategies, for
type of Child-Care Center and those of a more permanent nature for the full cycle.
* At the elementary education leveL, the program has been successful in creating a continued environment that encourages
inquisitiveness and learning-this is reflected in the creative, technological and scientific content of the subject areas, as
well as in the strong cultural values of those involved and in their incorporation of development.
* For the third cycle, where the study programs are on a pass/fail basis, a strong linkage has been created between content
and holistic learning processes.
* Curriculum design and implementation considers Art Education as a learning experience which aims to develop artisti
sensibilities, stimulating creativity and the imagination, thus providing the student with a well-rounded education. It wa
developed through an integrative approach, interconnecting the following areas: music, dance, scenic and plastic arts. I
was organized around two fundamental axis: artistic perception and core skills-development. The curriculum als
integrates the expression of feelings and ideas through the different art media.
* Physical education was incorporated as a core part of the curriculum. Its objectives include the development of students'
physical strength, as well as their increased energy, vigor and resistance, necessary for carrying out the different tasks
required in their daily life. Its main philosophy is to frame sports as a social practice.
* Third cycle curriculun development and implementation intends to develop more complex skills.
* Teachers are more like learning facilitators, in a sense that their role implies an adaptation of the national curriculum to
the regional and local realities. This has been possible through the re-design of the Study Plans and Programs.
- 51 -



Subcomponent (2.b) Textbooks and Instructional Materials
Box 3: Additional Supporting Documents Produced
A number of supporting documents have been produced and/or edited under this subcomponent. These include:
* Teacher Curriculum Hand-books.
* Evaluation manuals for pre-school and basic education.
* Documents dealing with the reform process, such as those addressing the national curriculum, the guidelines for the
10-Year Plan and the fundamental pillars of the education curriculum (including pre-school, elementary, secondary,
university, adult education and special education).
* Publications of the education reform such as "The Legal Reform Framework", "The Administrative Reform", "The
National Monitoring System" and "Basic Teacher Training."
* EDUCO studies: "Conrnunity Participation," "Methodological Framework for the Learning-Teaching Process,"
"EDUCO for Administrative Processes," "The Educational Supervisor in EDUCO," "School for Fathers and Mothers,"
and "Teachers and their Community."
Subcomponent (2.e) School Health and Nutrition Proaram
Box 4: Specific Actions Undertaken within this Subcomponent
* Capacity-building for teachers- all teachers from 262 municipalities in the country
participated in the Pedagogic Renovation Seminars, which provided a general orientation on
how to incorporate the health and nutrition axis into the classroom. Each teacher receive
technical background papers (handbooks, toolkits) and documents which they could distribute
to their students (games, pamphlets, etc.) on health and nutrition.
* Teachers were trained on the production and use of didactic materials that would help them in
spotting learning disabilities. At the end of the seminar the use and application of the
disseminated knowledge was verified. One-hundred-and-thirty-five thousand teachers from
rural areas were trained.
* The capacity-building module on "Learning Disabilities" was used by all teachers (135,000)
who were all trained on helping students overcome special needs in terms of memory-loss
attention-deficit-disorder, reading comprehension and basic writing and arithmetic.
* Capacity-building was provided to volunteer mothers so that they can serve as the multiplyin
factor in achieving an effective and healthy school. In addition, a total of 49,567 parents and
7,036 teachers were trained on the module "School Nutrition Education," which provided an
overview on a child's basic needs in terms of hygiene and nutrition. As a result of thi
training, it was possible to teach and monitor parents on the proper preparation of a schoo
luncheon.
* Learning Resources Provided (free of charge) included: cleaning set (for each school); basi
supplies basket (didactic material) for each school; high-quality education bonus (funds
administered by the parents; teaching methodology handbook with a focus on rural schooling
(pre-school to 4th grade); physical education methodology handbook (1 per school); schoo
bags for students; finger painting for pre-schoolers; kitchen set (I per school); sanitary aprons
and hats for food preparation; musical kits for pre-schools
- 52 -



SubcomDonent f3.a) Institutional Modernization and Strengthening
Table 6: Modernization of MINED
Institutional Reform                   Parallel Organizational and Administrative
Modernization
in MINED and Departmental Offices
School-Based Management                 *    Identify Non-Delegated Functions of MINED
* Organizational and Legal Studies of Community  and Strengthen its Capacity: National Education
and School Governments: ACE, CDE y CECE      Development Planning, Education Quality Norms,
* School-based Planning of Education Services  Research and Development of Education Services,
Needed                                       audits, controls and accountability of financial
* Financial Resources Transfered to Schools    transfers to schools and communities.
(BONOS)
* Legal Framework created for School-based
management and community participation in          Subcontract to the private sector the purely
1996 General Education Law and Teachers'     maintenance activities of MINED-and reduce
Statutory Law (Slatutos la Carrera Docente)  personnel for: building maintenance, cleaning,
security, utilities, vehicles, etc.
Decentralization                   *     Development of the Following Management
* Creation and Development of 14 Departmental  Systems at the Departmental Level: Information,.
Offices                                      Human Resources, Budget and Payments, Accounting,
* Decentralize MINED functions regarding teacher  Procurement and Inventory.
personnel administration, organization and
legalization of school and community
governments, financial controls, etc.
- 53 -



Table 7: Principal Results of the Administrative System Development
Human Resources
* Development and Approval of the Teacher Labor Statue and its instruments: recruitment, effective teaching
hours, salary and other financial incentives, leave, retirement, transfers, social provisions for staff and family, etc.
* Administrative guides and instruments are developed for management of functions.
* Coordination of the Different Organism in the Teacher Labor Statue: HR Department, School Principal, CDEs,
Teacher Selection Qualifyin Tribunal (Tribunal Calificador), Teacher Career Committees (Juntas de la Carrera
Docente) and Teacher Career Tribunal (Tribunal de la Carrera Docente)
* HR offices developed in each of the 14 Education Departmental Offices
Financial Management
* Computerized Mechanisms for Financial Transfers to Schools
* Control Systems for Tracking Financial Implications of Teacher Hiring, Attendance, Firing and Transfers
* Automatic payment of standard teachers through direct deposit in Commercial Bank accounts.
_ Computerized systems of financial budgeting and allocations at the departmental levels
Procurement and Logistical Systems
* Reorganization of the Central Procurement Unit of MINED
* Computerized procurement identification system
* Improved and agile procurement processes and simplified manual of financial transaction codes.
* Development of mechanisms, instruments and training for school-based and community procurement of
education services and goods.
* Sub-contracted Procurement Support: Procurement Agencies, NGOs, etc.
- 54 -



Additional Annex 10. EDUCO
EDUCO was bom in 1990. In 1989, the first freely elected government-during the last phase of the
war-confronted a countryside divided between the two conflict forces. During the war, public schools had
closed in 80% of rural communities in the country. However, in many of these communities-seemingly
without teachers-education services continued. The communities organized themselves to hire a teacher
for their children and to provide a humble place in lieu of a school (a home, church, barn, or even the
shadow of a tree). In the early 1990s, the Ministry of Education, with support of UNESCO, studied this
grassroots experience and decided to "institutionalize" community participation as the bedrock of rural
education service provision. "Institutionalization" meant that the government assumed its responsibility of
providing free public primary education by transferring public resources to the community-so it may
continue to hire teachers and manage their schools-and that parental community organizations became
legal entities able to manage public funds.
Legal Organization and Transfer of Public Resources. Rural parents organized in community education
associations (Asociacion Comunal de Educacion, ACE). The government, through the Ministry of
Education, recognized the ACE as a legal entity through a process called personeriajuridica (a legal body
able to receive and manage public funds). ACEs received financial transfers quarterly from the government
to cover the following school expenses: (i) the salary of teachers hired by the ACE; (ii) a fund for
teachers'social security contributions, life insurance, year-end bonus and housing; (iii) classroom
consumable materials such as paper, pencils, crayons, chalk, etc; and (iv) an initial installation bonus to
support parents to build or rehabilitate their community schools.
Technical Assistance and Training. The Ministry of Education (and its decentralized offices)-as well as
subcontracted NGOs, foundations and universities-provided training and technical assistance for the
community-based rural education model. The main features of the training and TA program included:
* The development of a community-based training and simple reference materials that allowed parents to:
(i) organize their education committees, (ii) manage and be accountable financially for public funds,
and (iii) enter into contractual agreements with rural teachers, including a step-by-step process to
identify, hire and pay teachers managed by the community.
* In situ technical assistance focused not only on managerial processes but also on how parents could
support teachers in the classroom and contribute to further develop their communities.
* The training program has been continuously adjusted in parallel to the increased management capacity
of communities. Early training programs focused on simple management tasks. Later, a more
comprehensive training and TA program (called Escuelas para Padres) focused on education issues
(such as development of simple classroom decorative and didactic materials and the importance of
homework time for children), as weBl as on health and nutrition, early childhood care and education,
and multisectoral (health, environment, etc.) community-based development.
*   Finally, the training and TA programs have guaranteed that both teachers and parents understand each
other responsibilities and work as a team.
Accountability. The Ministry of Education developed a very transparent accountability system. It
included: (i) ex-post monitoring of community logs for teacher attendance, payment, and purchase of school
- 55 -



materials; (ii) annual financial audits (first on a census basis and, more recently, on a random sample
basis); and (iii) the use of the training and TA model, Escuela para Padres, as an open space for parents
to share their successes and obstacles regarding EDUCO and their recommendations for improvement.
Education Quality Interventions. The EDUCO program was designed to expand education coverage in
the poorest rural areas. The program did not include its own specific teaching and learning quality
interventions. Rather the Ministry of Education addressed the pedagogical needs of all rural schools,
including EDUCO.     The rural pedagogical strategies for the rural sector included: (i) multigrade
methodologies (called aulas alternativas), (ii) methodologies to accelerate appropriate age-to-grade
enrollment (called educaci6n acelerada), (iii) didactic materials and classroom libraries for all rural
schools, and, most recently, (iv) transferring financial resources to community education committees to
support locally-based teacher training.
Progress Achieved
Gross Enrollment Rates (GERs). In the early 1990s, the eminent education target was to recover and
increase student enrollment in preschool and basic education. The war-afflicted decade of the 1980s
reversed even the low levels of education coverage that existed in 1979. By 1989, gross enrollment rates in
preschool were only 14% (down from 18% in 1979), which translated to an urban enrollment of 35,865
children and only 6,103 in rural areas. Basic education gross enrollment rates, in the same year, were
81.9% (down from approximately 83% in 1979), equivalent to an enrollment of 462,606 students in urban
areas and 413,525 students in rural areas.
However, by the end of the millenium, GERs for preschool and basic education had increased substantially
to 44% and 96% respectively (see table #1). The corresponding net enrollment rate (NER) for basic
education in 1999 was 83%. Moreover, 51% of students enrolled were girls.
Table #1
El Salvador
Gross Coverage Rates by Education Level (%)
Year
Level       1979    1985    1987    1989    1992    1994    1995    1996    1997    1999
Preschool   18      13.0    14.0    14.0    24.0    33.5    38.6    38.2    40.0    44
Basic(1-9)  82.6    77.1    80.3    81.9    84.8    90.2    95.9    94.5    96.0    96
Secondary   26.6    27.2    29.0    26.2    28.9    31.0    34.3    34.3    37.0    38
Higher      7.1     14.4    14.9    9       18.8    18.0    18.9    17.8    18.0    18.3
Sources: Direcci6n General de Poblaci6n (MIPLAN)1992; Salvadorean
Population Projections (DIGESTYC, 1995); Population Census, 1992;
Educaci6n de El Salvador en Cifras 199S; FUSADES, Reforrna de la Politica
Social de America Latina: Resultados y Perspectivas, 1998; and MINED, Unidad
de Indicadores Educativos, Direcci6n de Evaluaci6n e Investigaci6n, 1999.
EDUCO was primarily responsible for the significant advances on enrollment and coverage in the rural
sector during the 1990s. By 1999, rural preschool enrollment increased from 6,103 students in 1989 to
82,175 children. Basic education enrollment increased from 413,525 students in 1989 to 588,006 in 1999.
In total, 251,553 additional students were enrolled in preschool and basic education, out of which 237,280
- 56 -



(or 94%) was through the EDUCO program. In the years 2000-01, 55,552 additional school places were
provided by EDUCO (see table #2, below).
Table #2
Growth of EDUCO:
Classrooms, Community Committees (ACEs), Teachers and Students
1991-2001
Year Classrooms    Cumulative   ACEs' Cumulative    Teachers  Cumulative   Students   Cumulative
1991      263                    263                   263                   8,416
1992      746         1,009      582       845         746        1,009     23,872      32,288
1993      302         1,311      26        871         302       1,311       9,664      41,952
1994     1,005        2,316      463       1,334      1,005      2,316      32,160      74,112
1995     1,238        3,554       7        1,341       603       2,919      39,616      113,728
1996     1,725        5,279      359       1,700       952       3,884      54,944      168,672
1997      783         6,062      59        1,705       312       4,196      25,656      193,984
1998      386         6,448      -65       1,640       173       4,369       12,352     206,336
1999      967         7,415      91        1,722       334       4,703      30,944      237,280
2000      859         8,271      112       1,811       636       5,339      27,392      264,672
2001     1,411        9,682      148       1,959       880       6,219      28,160      309,824
Source: Ministry of Education (MINED), La Autonornia Escolar y el Programa EDUCO, San Salvador, 2001.
l From 1995, MINED began creating one ACE per community; before an ACE was created for each education level
(preschool and basic levels). Thus, in some years the number of ACEs may be negative
2There is an approximately average of 30 students per classroom.
Reduction of Late Entrance to Schooling. EDUCO has reduced late entrance to 1st grade in rural
communities. By age 7, 88% of children in EDUCO communities start first grade (on time) and all others
start by age 8. In 1993, late entrance rates (children beginning first grade at 9 or above) was almost 30%
in rural areas; by 1998 it was 14% (surpassing original government goals of reducing late entrance to
15.3% by 1999). See table #4 for initial enrollment rates in rural areas (EDUCO and traditional schools).
- 57 -



Table# 3
Initial Enrollment Rates of Children Age 7-9
_______                       ~~~~~~(%)
Grade
Age           First        Second         Third         Fourth         Fifth
EDUCO
7             88            12             0             0             0
8             19            46            35                          0
9             12            45            34             9 -           0
_____________          ~~Traditional Rural Schools _ _ _ _ _ _ _
7             75            22            02                           0
8             46            40            13             1             0
9             24            34    _       31             9             0
EIPM (Household Survey), 1998
Impact of EDUCO on Student Learning. As mentioned before, the EDUCO program did not include
their own teaching and learning quality interventions. These inputs were provided by the Ministry of
Education for all schools including EDUCO. However, it was expected that the community participation
model of EDUCO-which generates broader parental involvement in school-could have some impact on
how quality education resources are used and, thus, on learning.
Two researchers, Jimenez and Sawada, tested EDUCO's parental participation effects on standardized test
performance (Math and Spanish) and schools days missed by students based on teachers absenteeism. On
the former, test performance, no impact was perceived when compared to traditional schools (i.e.,
non-EDUCO). However, children in EDUCO schools were receiving more effective class days, as
EDUCO teacher absenteeism was less than in traditional schools. Effective hours of teaching can be
correlated to improved learning. Thus, as MINED continues to focus more on providing quality education
inputs' to all schools, EDUCO schools-with their parental participation and teacher commitment-will no
doubt have an advantage over other poor rural communities without associated factors to learning such as
parental support and more effective teaching hours.
Impact of EDUCO on Community Participation in Rural Areas. Studies of EDUCO have shown that
parental participation is having an impact on: (i) transparency of education resources management; (ii)
attendance of teachers and students in rural areas; (iii) supportive relations between teachers and parents;
(iii) and the development of community capacity to form alliances with-and identify resources
from-other social programs. Table #5 provides examples of the various impact indicators studied:
Expansion of the Community Participation Model. EDUCO (and its community organization model,
ACEs) impacted positively community participation in the education sector. Thus, the Ministry of
Education, during the mid and late 1 990s, strengthened and expanded community involvement elements for
all schools in the country, in various ways:
- 58 -



i. it generalized the community and school governance model to all public schools (in traditional schools,
parents, teachers and principals organize in an education committee similar to EDUCO called Comite
de Desarrollo Educativo, CDEs);
ii. other education programs also made financial transfers to the ACEs (and CDEs) for other services
such as school meals, health and nutrition, teacher training funds, school materials and even earthquake
emergency fumds in 2001;
iii. parents' schools (escuelas para padres) became the center for all adult education and training in rural
communities; and
iv. a broad set of management materials (for organization, financial management, planning, etc.) became
available in all rural communities and have served as models for community-based management
programs in other sectors (e.g., health and youth programs).
- 59 -



- 60 -






IMAGING
Report No.:          24402
Type:     lCR



