WOCUM
LOAN NUMBER 3945-ES
Loan Agreement
(Basic Education Modernization Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated Nozcv' .3 o ,1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3945-ES
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated K0 o    e      < 30 , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)    the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $37,300,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Basic Education" means the education services provided in the
Borrower's territory for the first to the ninth grade of schooling;
(b)    "EDUCO Model" means the Borrower's program of community operated
schools for Preschool Education and Basic Education;
(c)    "MINED" means Ministerio de Educaci6n, the Borrower's Ministry of
Education;
(d)    "Preschool Education" means the education services provided in the
Borrower's territory for children aged between four and six years;


﻿-2-
(e)    "Project Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank,
which establishes: (i) the responsibilities of the different departments and agencies of the
Borrower with respect to the implementation of the Project; and (ii) all the operational
aspects of the execution of the Project, including: (A) a work program and an
implementation schedule for the Project; and (B) the monitoring indicators for Project
evaluation;
(f)    "Project Management Office" means the office referred to in Section 3.05
(a) of this Agreement;
(g)    "Rural Schools" means schools located in areas defined as rural by
MINED;
(h)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(i)    "Staff Development Program" means the program, satisfactory to the
Bank, referred to in Part C. I (f) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty-four
million Dollars ($34,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in the Borrower's Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period,
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
(iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
(iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings
or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
(c)    The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d) Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination
of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the


﻿-4-
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not
yet withdrawn upon not less than six months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 15
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic,
financial, administrative, environmental, educational and pedagogical practices, and in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall, at all times until the completion of the Project, operate and maintain, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, a
revolving fund with a quarterly balance equivalent to the counterpart funding requirements
for the next three months of Project implementation, as provided in the annual budget
referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a) procurement of the
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (b) the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce the agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:


﻿(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof;
(b)    furnish to the Bank, during the month of August of each year until the
completion of the Project, beginning in 1996, a report of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project
during the twelve calendar months preceding the date of said report pursuant to the
monitoring and evaluation indicators set forth in the Project Operational Manual. As part
of the report to be delivered during the month of August of 1998, the Borrower shall also
prepare and include, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, data integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project since the
initiation of the execution of the Project;
(c)    in each of the reportj referred to in paragraph (b) above, also recommend
the measures to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, including a budget, an investment plan and the targets to be achieved
for the implementation of the Project during the succeeding calendar year; and
(d)    review with the Bank, by not later than September 30 of each year until
the completion of the Project, beginning in 1996, the corresponding report furnished
according to paragraph (b) above, and thereafter take all measures, satisfactory to the
Bank, required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain within MINED, until the report referred to in Section 9.07 (c)
of the General Conditions has been prepared, a project management office with functions


﻿-6-
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia: (i) coordination
of the implementation of the Project; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the Project; (iii)
preparation of the plan referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, and the reports
referred to in Sections 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions;
and (iv) processing of documentation required for disbursement of Loan proceeds under
the Project; and
(b)    ensure that the office referred to in (a) above is at all times staffed with
at least five full-time professionals with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank, assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)    not later than January 30, 1996, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, with a university or a research center, acceptable to the Bank, providing for:
(i) the carrying out of Part B.7 of the Project, and (ii) the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources to enable such university or research center to carry out its
responsibilities under, and to comply with, such agreement; and
(b)    exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the agreement
referred to in (a) above, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive, of fail to enforce said
agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;


﻿-7-
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by March
31, 1996, or such later date as the Bank may agree, provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
(b)    (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
IDB Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the IDB Loan Agreement; or
(B)    the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b)
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Bank has received: (a) the Project Operational
Manual; (b) an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the reorganization of Oficina de
Provectos de Cooperaci6n Internacional (the Borrower's office of international programs,
which is part of the Project Management Office); and (c) evidence that: (i) the Borrower
has entered into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the United Nations
Development Program or with any other procurement agent acceptable to the Bank, for
the carrying out, as agent of the Borrower, of the procurement of goods according to the
provisions set forth in Parts B, C. 1 and C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
and the contracting of consultants' services under the Project; and (ii) the revolving fund
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) has been opened and an amount equivalent to not less than
$2,500,000 has been deposited therein.
Section 6.02. The date M.c h\         , 1996 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Coordination of the Economic and Social
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Coordinaci6ni
del Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social
Final 17 Avenida Norte
Costado Poniente CEL
Centro de Gobierno
San Salvador, El Salvador
Cable address:             Telex:
MICDES              30120245
Centro de Gobierno
San Salvador
El Salvador
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
Washingt3n, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By    //C.             ~   sL~(ei~o
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
C Yc5 njRegional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Dollar               to be
Category                   Equivalent)           Financed
(1)    Equipment,
furniture and
vehicles                     1,600,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
87% of local
expenditures
(2)    School library books        11,700,000        100% of foreign
and Instructional                             expenditures and
Materials and                                 87% of local
distribution thereof                          expenditures
(3)    Consultants'
services and
training under:
(a) Part C.1 (f)             1,100,000         100%
of the Project
(b) the other Parts         12,900,000
of the Project                            100%
(4)    Micronutrients and            700,000         90%
distribution thereof


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Dollar                to be
Category                    Equivalent)            Financed
(5)    Salaries and
operating costs              2,600,000          90% until
disbursements
under this
Category shall
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$1,600,000;
60% until
disbursements
under this
Category shall
have reached an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
$2,500,000; and
30% thereafter
(6)    Unallocated                  3,400,000
TOTAL                       34,000,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "training" includes, inter alia: (i) all the necessary activities and
acquisitions of equipment and Instructional Materials for the training of teachers,
supervisors, school principals and other personnel of MINED included under the Project;


﻿- 14 -
(ii) production of training materials; (iii) rental of training facilities; (iv) transportation
expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and subsistence expenses for
such trainees; (v) scholarships and fellowships for training courses to be.provided in the
Borrower's territory or abroad; and (vi) study tours in the Borrower's territory or abroad;
(d)    the term "Micronutrients" means organic or mineral compounds essential
in minute amounts to the growth and welfare of children in the Borrower's territory, such
as vitamins, iron and calcium used for preventive and therapeutic nutritional and health
purposes;
(e)    the term "salaries" means remunerations of personnel of MINED hired
under the Project, including teachers, supervisors and school principals;
(f)    the term "Instructional Materials" means items which can directly serve
a pedagogical purpose, such as notebooks, pencils, maps, geometric blocks, word games,
educational toys, laminated posters, compasses, protractors, reference books and laboratory
kits; and
(g)    the term "operating costs" means recurrent costs associated with the
implementation of the Project, such as: (i) maintenance of: (A) office equipment, vehicles
(including fuel, repairs and spare parts) and (B) schools facilities for Preschool Education,
Basic Education and Rural Schools; (ii) insurance for equipment and vehicles procured
under the Project; (iii) office materials; and (iv) travel and per diem expenditures for the
staff of the Project Management Office.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made: (a) for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed' the equivalent
of $300,000, may be made in respect of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after March 15, 1995; and (b) under Category (3) (a) of the table set forth in
paragraph I of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the Staff
Development Program.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for contracts for goods and
consultants' services costing less than the equivalent of: (i) $250,000 in the case of goods
(other than the first contract to be awarded each year during Project implementation
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement); (ii) $75,000 in
the case of consulting firms' services; and (iii) $35,000 in the case of individual
consultants' services; (b) made under Category (5) of the table set forth in paragraph I
of this Schedule.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) expand access to Preschool Education and
Basic Education; (b) improve the quality of Preschool Education and Basic Education; and
(c) strengthen and modernize MINED.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Expansion of Access to Preschool Education and Basic Education
1.     Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of schools in the Borrower's
territory, including the provision of school furniture therefor.
2.     Strengthening of the EDUCO Model, through the provision of technical
assistance, vehicles, computers, software and office equipment therefor.
Part B:       Improvement of Quality in Preschool Education and Basic Education
1.    (a) Improvement rf- Preschool Education and Basic Education curricula; and (b)
printing, production and distribution of school textbooks, instructional materials, and
teachers' and students' guides therefor.
2.     Designing of a new system for promotion of Basic Education students.
3.     Establishment of Basic Education multigrade classes in Rural Schools.
4.     Provision of: (a) supplies, educational and instructional materials for Preschool
Education and Basic Education; and (b) books for classroom and school libraries for
Preschool Education and Basic Education.
5.     Provision of training for Preschool Education and Basic Education teachers,
school principals and supervisors.
6.     Preparation of studies for the improvement of pre-service teachers' training
programs for Preschool Education and Basic Education.
7.     Development and implementation of a student assessment system for Preschool
Education and Basic Education.


﻿-16-
8.     Development of a school health and nutrition program for Preschool Education
and Basic Education.
Part C:      Institutional Modernization and Strengthening
1.    (a) Review of the legal and organizational f&unework to implement institutional
reforms and to decentralize education activities in the Borrower's territory; (b) completion
of the design of MINED's planning, information, communication, evaluation and
monitoring systems and implementation of such systems; (c) review of the incentives
structure for teachers and MINED's technical staff and implementation thereof; (d)
restructuring and strengthening of the teachers' supervision system of MINED; (e)
development of public communication strategies to strengthen the Borrower's education
sector, including their use by the media; and (f) design and implementation of a program
for the professional development of MINED's staff.
2.     Establishment of mechanisms to finance and test: (a) alternative methods to
provide Preschool Education and Basic Education through municipalities, non-
governmental organizations and other non-profit private institutions operating in the
Borrower's territory; and (b) pedagogical and administrative innovations for Preschool
Education and Basic Education.
3.     Administration, monitoring, evaluation and auditing of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Dollars)
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2001
through April 15, 2012                              1,415,000
On October 15, 2012                                 1,455,000
*      The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section .     Procurement of Goods
Part A:  General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1.      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.       The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B. 1.
(a) Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for library books for the EDUCO Model schools, shall
be carried out in two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the
Guidelines.
(b) Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.      Limited International Bidding
Micronutrients up to an aggregate amount of $1,100,000 and vehicles up to an
aggregate amount of $1,200,000, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a
limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 19 -
2.       National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than micronutrients, vehicles and library books for the EDUCO
Model schools) estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 but $50,000
equivalent or more, per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.      National Shopping
Goods costing less than the equivalent of $50,000, per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.       Direct Contracting
Instructional materials for the EDUCO Model schools, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragiaph 3.7 of the Guidelines, whenever it shall not
be possible to obtain more than one price quotation.
5.       In the procurement of goods in accordance with Parts C.1 and C.2 above the
Borrower shall use standard bidding documents approved by the Bank.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.      Procurement Plannini
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of
said-paragraph 1.
2.       Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of
Part B.1 and C.1 of this Section; and (b) the first contract to be awarded each calendar
year during Project implementation pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section,


﻿- 20 -
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.       Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.       Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $75,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent each. However, this exception
to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single source selection of firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) emendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or more; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$35,000 equivalent or more.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.       For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation". means an amount equivalent to
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special'commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000.
2.       Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.       After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required


﻿- 22 -
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.       For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as


﻿- 23 -
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


