Docuuamut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Nt N. P-3681-MOR
REPORT AND _WIENDTIOW
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
ITLBANK FOR                  R    IM AD DEPT
TO THE
EXECTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALt  TO US*115.4 NILLI1ON
TO
CAISSE NqATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICULE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE XKIGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
rFIFt AGRICULTUPRAL CRESDIT PROJECT
NoVeMber 22, 1983
,hk dmemeU b a   lbi balm mg -y be d  bY  plmatI mly In the P uI    dp
SobchId iadLh lb  -1mmab   y sol siheewb be dbdemi ulihea WM Umk elbaul.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.             8.00 Dirhams (DH)
Dirham (DU) 1    -   US$ 0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -      African Development Bank
(Banque Africaine de Ddvelopment)
AFESD    -      Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CICA     -      Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
CLCA    -       Local Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole)
CRCA     -      Caisse Rfgionale de Credit Agricole
DLRBn  -  -    Directorate of Land Registration and Topographic Operations
(Direction de la Conservation Fonciere et des Travaux
Topographiques)
KfW      -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic of
Germany
MILAR    -      Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(MinistAre de l'Agriculture at de la RWforms Agraire)
MIS      -      Nanagemut Informatiou System
0)VER UNT OF UNGDOK OF MOROCCO
FISGAL YEAR: January 1 to December 31
CNCF
FISCAL YEAR; September I to August 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Caisse NationaLe de Crgdit Agricole (CNCA).
Guarantor:        The Kingdom of Morocco.
E           Amount:           US$115.4 million, including the capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:            17 years including four years grace at the standard variable
interest rate. CNCA will bear the interest risk on the
loan. The Guarantor will make arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank to protect the Borrower against foreign exchange
risks in connection with service of the Bank Loan.
Project
Description:      The Project aims to (i) contribute to growth of agricultural
production, (ii) improve the standard of living of about
580,000 farm families, and (iii) create about 78,600 manyears
of rural employment. The Project wouLld support the
achievement of these objectives through:  (a) increasing
private investments in agriculture; (b) improving access by
small farmers to institutional credit; (c) promoting
mobilization of domestic savings and (d) strengtnening CNCA's
management efficiency and financial situation. The proposed
Loan would finance farm investments through CNCA during the
period September 1983 to August 1986, including: (a)
investments by small farmers, (b) investments by Agrarian
Reform Cooperatives, (c) investments by medium and large
farmers, and (d) agro-industry investments. The project
would also include improvement of CNCA's physical
infrastructure, management information systems and loan
monitoring and evaluation, and define a banking strategy and
a staff training program. The main benefits of the project
would be substantial increases in agricultural production and
farm incomes. It would particularly help about 510,000 small
farmers or about 88 percent of project beneficiaries. The
project would also help consolidate CNCA's financial
viability as a basis for expanded lending while reducing the
need to rely on concessional financing in the future. The
major project risk is that of abnormally adverse weather
conditions which would reduce crop yields and livestock
output. The estimates of financial and economic analyses
have taken account of this eventuality and still yield
acceptable rates of return.
-BEST-CPY AVAILABLE
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost
Estimatesz
Local  Forein  Total
…----(US$ 1iOMion)---
CREDIT COMPONENT
Investments Financed on Subloans
Constructions (stables, sheep folds)       48.9       12.2    61.1
Land Improvement                            4.9        2.1      7.0
Wells, Pumps, Irrigation Equipment         26.1       21.3    47.4
Agricultural Machinery                     31.6       79.5   111.1
Transport & Other Equipment                 19.9      12.4    32.3
Draft Animals                              79.9        -       79.9
Livestock                                 129.5       20.8   150.3
Plantations                                12.1        5.2    17.3
Agroindustries                              9.8       13.6    23.4
Base Cost                               362.7      167.1   529.8
Price contingencies                        43.0       19.8    62.8
Subtotal Credit Component               405.7      186.9   592.6
Institutional Development
Physical Infrastructure                     3.8        2.2      6.0
Institutional Development                   0.3        1.0      1.3
Base Cost (September 1983 prices)         4.1        3.2      7.3
Physical Contingencies                      0.6        0.4      1.0
Price Contingencies                         0.6        0.4      1.0
Total Cost                                5.3        4.0     9.3
TOTAL COST                                 411.0 1/  190.9   601.9
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                              0.3      0.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                   411.0      191.2   602.2
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
Bank                                              6.2          109.2       115.4
AFESD                                             -             26.0        26.0
ADB                                               -             32.0         32.0
KfW                                               -             24.0        24.0
Sub-borrowers                                   135.5                      135.5
CNCA                                            226.2            -         226.2
Government                                      43.1            -           43.1
411.0          191.2       602.2
I/ Including USS60.6 million of taxes.



- iii-
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88
------------- ($US million)…-------------
Annual                10.0      28.0      40.0     35.0       2.4
Cumulative            10.0      38.0      78.0    113.0    115.4
Staff Appraisal
Report:                         No. 4654-MOR dated November 22, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN MOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$115.4 MILLION
TO THE CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A FIFTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole, with the guarantee of the Kingdom
of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$115.4 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee, to help finance the Fifth Agricultural Credit Project. The
Loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. Most of the proceeds of the Loan to CNCA
would be onlent to project beneficiaries for up to 10 years, including 2 years
of grace, with interest rates acceptable to the Bank. Co-financing is
expected from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD)
through a $26 million equivalent loan, from the African Development Bank (ADB)
through a $32 miLlion equivalent loan, and from the Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW) through two loans of a total of $24 million equivalent to CNCA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-HOR), was issued on June 15, 1983. An
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
is expected to be distributed to the board shortly. An economic mission on
financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its report
should be ready in 1984. Country data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which couLd become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco has also a relatively good agricultural potential. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.



- 2 -
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Horocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force
was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector,
and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phcsphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Morocco's Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the mid-1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  In
1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more
than quadrupled, and although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled in
1974, the current account of the balance of payments remained in surplus. The
Government launched a massive public investment program which brought about a
sharp acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the
rate of 6.7% per year between 1973-1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Markets for
other exports as well as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively
affeceed by the world recession. Agricultural production and exports entered
a period of prolonged stagnation and Morocco turned from a net exporter to a
net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these factors, the growth of
exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in constant prices had exceeded
8% a year in 1968-72, averaged only 0.6% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public expenditures, and particularly
increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western
Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the
Government budget, with the result that the overall Treasury deficit reached
17.6% of GDP, and the current account deficit, 16.5% of GDP in 1977. To help
finance the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital
market, which led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service
burden. The debt service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and
services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977.
Staoilization Program 1978-1980
8.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
with the aim of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable
levels. The demand management policies of that period centered on reductions
in investment outlays and stricter import controls and included an exchange
rate devaluation in 1980, but did not address adequately the fundamental
structural weaknesses of the economy, with the result that the short-term
downward adjustment of the economy was only moderately successful. By 1980,



-3 -
bothi fiscal and external imbalances were still substantial: the overall
Treasury deficit remaLned at aoout 12% of GDP and the current account deficit
at S8  of WV.
Social Development
9.       Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current budget outlays. However, social
indicators still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The
limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income
groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major
issue, and the strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasized the
importance of rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest
households in Morocco currently live, and the need to improve mechanisms for
delivering services to meet basic needs at an affordable cost. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local communities in meeting
basic needs, particularly for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these
areas, implementation of these policies would help meet the needs of
low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of social programs.
Recent Economic Developments
10.      Tne agricultural sector, which grew by nearly 4% in the sixties,
failed to grow in the seventies partly in response to poor climatic
conditions. This trend continued in recent years with a sharp fall in output
in 1981, partly reversed in 1982. At the same time, and despite large public
investment in manufacturing since the mid-seventies, value added in
manufacturing declined in 1980-82. As a consequence, Government services have
been the the main source of growth (12% p.a. in real terms), reflecting the
rapid rise in Treasury expenditures. Overall, real GDP increased by only 2.1X
p.a. in real terms in 1980-82 compared with 3.6% p.a. in 1977-80, so that
Morocco's real income per capita declined for the first time in many years.
1L.      In the last three years, the Government's effort to stabilize the
Moroccan economy has been severely hampered by a series of external shocks;
a) the 1979 increase in oil prices which aggravated an already substantial
import bill (41.2 billion in 1982); b) a severe drought in 1981, which reduced
agricultural output by about 20% and led to substantial imports of cereals;
c) the rise in international interest rates which contributed to a steep
increase in debt service; and d) the international economic recession which
contributed to a 31% decline in 1982-83 in the dollar price of rock
phosphates, as well as to a fall in workers' remittances, Morocco's principal
sources of foreign exchange.
12.      In addition to the external shocks, growing pressure to provide
social services and consumer subsidies to a rapidly growing population, as
well as defence expenditures related to the Sahara war, led to a rapid growth
in Government current expenditures. At the same time, expenditures under the
1981-85 Development Plan, which aimed at an ambitious GDP growth rate of
b.5% p.a., induced a sharp increase in Treasury investment expenditures (46%
from 1980 to 1983). Thus, despite tax increases and improved tax collection



- 4 -
that brought fiscal pressure up to 23.1Z of GDP in 1982, the overall Treasury
deficitI/ rose from 12.2Z of GDP in 198U to 14.1X of GDP in 1982, thus
constituting the major source of financial imbalance.
13.      The combined effect on the balance of payments of the previously
mentioned external shocks and of the need for external resources created by an
expansionary fiscal policy was an overall increase in the current account
deficit from $1.4 billion in 1980 to $1.9 billion in 1982 (or from 8% to 13%
of GDP). Wnile there were some positive factors on the export side, such as
the continued growth of manufactured exports, the emergence of new
non-traditional exports and renewed growth in the tourism sector after the
1980 exchange rate devaluation, these were more than offset by the fall in
phosphate earnings and workers' remittances. On the import side, petroleum
and capital goods impJrts continued to increase, although at a slower rate
than previously due to the economic slowdown.
14.      To finance its current account deficit and meet its debt amortization
payments, Morocco increased its external borrowing. By December 1982, its
external medium and long term debt (disbursed only) rose to *9 billion or 61%
of GDP (excluding military debt), and in 1983 its total external debt
including military and short-term commercial debt reached an estimated
*13 billion. As a result of growing debt and the rise in international
interest rates, Morocco's debt service (excluding IMF) amounted to
*1.2 billion in 1980 and $1.4 billion in 1982 of which *0.6 billion in
interest. This was equivalent to 27.0% and 36.3%.a' respectively of total
exports of goods and services. Loan commitments in 1980-82 averaged
$2 billion a year of which $0.9 billion from multilateral and bilateral
sources (excluding special grants). As in previous years, major sources of
aid were Saudi Arabia, France, the United Arab Emirates, the United States,
Germany, and the Bank group. At the end of 1982, the Bank group's share in
Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was 7.7Z, and its
share in debt service was 6.41.
The 1983 Stabilization Program
15.      In 1983, the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net foreign
assets declined sharply, prompting the Government to reverse the earlier trend
toward trade liberalization by tightening import restrictions in March 1983.
With freely usable reserves virtually depleted, and the high level of external
debt entailing an unsustainable debt service burden for the next few years,
the need for a stabilization program was evident. A Government program
prepared in mid-1983 is supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement covering the
second half of 1983 and calendar 1984 in an amount equivalent to
SDR 300 million. Its principal objective is to reduce the balance of
1/ Excluding special accounts and annex budgets.
2/ 38.7Z including repurchases from the IMF.



payments deficit from $2.0 biLLion in 1982 to $1.3 billion in 1983 and
$1 billion in 1984. This objective would be pursued through limits on
monetary expansion, reduction in the Treasury deficit and continued use of a
flexible exchange rate policy.
lb.      In view of the already high fiscal pressure in Morocco and the
relative inelasticity of the tax system, reduction in the overall Treasury
deficit woulc be achieved mainly tnrough cuts in current and investment
expenditures. Thus the Government decided in July 1983 to increase subsidized
food prices by 17X to 60X (with the exception of granulated sugar and
on-luxury flour) and to raise the prices of Eertilizers, electricity, water
and petroleum products, with the result that budgetary consumer subsidies
would be cut in half in 1983-84. Budgetary investment appropriations were
also revised downward, substantially in line with the recommendations of the
report on Priorities for Public Sector Investment, so as to limit actual
Treasury investment expenditures to DH 8 billion in 1983 (compared with
DH 12.5 billion in 1982). The overall impact of the 1983 adjustment program
on the budget would thus be to reduce the overall Treasury deficitl' from
DH 12.3 billion in 1982 to about DH 8.9 bilLion in 1983.
17.      To reinforce the adjustment process,  the flexible exchange rate
poLicy initiated in 1980 was continued in 1983 with the dirham being gradually
depreciated by about 10%. In addition, a process of debt rescheduling was
started in order to improve the debt profile and restructure it in the light
of the estimated resources available for debt servicing. Although the overall
impact of the stabilization program would result in a sizeable decrease in the
current account deficit, projected debt service payments of about $2 bilLion
per year in 19g3-8b on external medium and long term debt outstanding as of
December 1982 (excluding military debt) would have created severe difficulties
for debt management over the next few years. Given these factors, the
Government has asked for a rescheduling of its external public debt with the
Paris Club and commercial creditors. Preliminary indications are that
rescheduling of Morocco's bilateral public debt would reduce debt service by
about $1.7 billion in 1983 and 1984, as no new loans from commercial banks
would be required to finance the balance of payments deficit. In addition to
net IMF financing of $293 million, Morocco is expecting to receive additional
official aid of about $500 million in 1983-84. Such financing, in conjunction
with the implementation of a continued adjustment program would make it
possible for Morocco to finance its projected financing gap ($2.4 billion in
1983-84) and increase its external reserves.
Macroeconomic Projections
id.      Current account deficits of 8 to 13% of GDP which Morocco has
experienced during the last five years cannot be sustained in the future. In
view of the liquidity problem and the debt management problems experienced by
Morocco in 1983, a fundamental stabilization effort needs to be made in
1/ Excluding extrabudgetary operations.



1i83-84 and combined with a program of structural adjustment if the current
account deficit is to be reduced from 132 of GDP in 1982 to a more sustainable
long-term level of 3% by 1987. Such a program of structural reforms would
have as its basic aims:
(i)    to reduce tne deficit of tne balance of payments over the short and
medium term through policy changes in agriculture and industry that
would promote exports and efficient import substitution while raising
output in these sectors;
(iL)    to improve the allocation of capital and the efficiency of
investment, both in the public sector (through appropriate revisions
of the investment program) and in the private sector (through reform
of the protection system a,.! of interest rate policies);
(ii.)   to increase the level of public sector savings through reductions in
the Treasury deficit and improvements in the efficiency of public
enterprises;
(iv)    to improve the mobilization of private savings through a reform of
the financial sector involving interest rate increases,
diversification of financial instruments and greater competition in
the banking sector; and
(v)    to accelerate the rate of employment creation through better manpower
planning and a revision of the protection and incentives system so as
to encourage investment in labor intensive activities.
19.      In view of the external financial constraint faced by Morocco, the
Government's adjustment program focuses on those policy areas which have the
greatest need for fundamental reform and the greatest potential for improving
the balance of payments. The first phase of adjustment thus focusses in
l983-84 on ti) stabilizing the economy through-restrictive budgetary policies,
(ii) implementing a comprehensive program of adjustment of the system of
protection (tariffs and quantitative restrictions), export promotion and
incentives, (iii) initiating a reform of the fiscal and financial system, and
(iv) ensuring that the composition of the public investment program maximizes
its contribution to growth in the light of the severe constraint on budgetary
expenditures. The second phase of the adjustment program, expected to be
implemented in 1985, would continue the industrial and trade policy reforms
initiated in 1984 and it would extend the reform program in the financial
sector. Future phases of the adjustment process could address further issues
of fiscal reforms and initiate reforms in public enterprises, education and in
agriculturaL policy.
2u.      Preliminary projections based on the above policies bring out the
dampening effect of stabilization on growth in the short-term and the
importance of improving the efficiency of investment, domestic savings and
export incentives for higher long-term growth. As efforts to promote exports
and increase domestic savings can be expected to bear fruit only gradually in
Morocco's circumstances, this would severely limit the level of investment
that could be financed in 1983-85 under the conditions of a projected decline



- 7 -
in tiho not amount of external financing available to Morocco. In the
short-cerm, the extdrnal constraint wiLl also require A reduction in Treaaury
invescment expenditures, with a resulting deflationary impact on domestic
demiand. Implementation of the adjustment measures including improved export
incentives would, however, induce an expansion oE exports and a gradual
increase in output.  Overall, the projections indicate that Morocco's GDP may
increase by 1X in 19B4 and 2X in 185.
21.      In the medium-term, structural improvements in the efficiency of
resource use should induce a resumption of economic growth, and GDP is
projecced to increase at 3.8Z p.s. in 1985-90 without creating unsupportable
strains on the balance of payments. This result would reflect a change in the
sources of growth, with the manufacturing and phosphate sectors playing an
important role in improving the balance of payments. As a result of improved
export incentives and the revival of foreign market", exports of manufactured
products are projected to grow at 9.8Z p.a. and exports of rock phosphates and
phosphase derivatives would recover from their present Low level and grow at
5.4Z p.a. in 1985-90. The overall growth rate of Morocco's exports of goods
and nonfactor services in tnis scenario would reach 5.6X p.a. in constant
prices in 1985-90. With respect to imports, the change in the structure of
incentives in conjunction with the 1983 depreciation of the dirham would
improve the efficiency of import substitution and reduce the reliance on
imported inputs. As a consequence of recent increases in the domestic price
of energy and petroleum products, a reduction in the oil import elasticity can
also be expected to take place from 1.04 in 1975-8U to 0.8 in 1985-90.
Overall, import growth of goods and nonfactor services in this scenario would
be limited to 3.7% p.a. during 1985-90.
22.      Given the strong constraints on the resources available, investment
is projected to decline in the short-term from 21X of GDP in 1980 to 142 in
1985 and to rise gradually thereafter to 16% of GDP. It is assumed that, in
conformity with the Plan objectives, the Government would start fewer large
capital-intensive projects and restrict the allocation of investments to
priority subsectors so as to improve the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment. Priority is to be given to projects that are export
oriented, less capital intensive and which use a greater proportion of
domestic resources. In addition, particular attention would have to be paid
by the Government to manpower planning and to the employment effect of
investments in order to prevent unemployment from rising &i excessive levels.
23.      An essential aim of the adjustment processsIwould also be an increase
in domestic savings. As a consequence of policies aiming at a reduction in
the Treasury deficit and at an improvement in public enterprises efficiency,
public savings are projected to increase by about 3% of GDP. In addition,
improvements in the mobilization of private savings through interest rate
increases and reform of the financial sector could generate an increase of
about 2% of GDP, so that the overall savings rate in this scenario would rise
from about dZ in 1984 to about 13% in 1990.



24.       The acceleration of export growth relative to import growth in
conjunction with an increase in the savings ratio relative to the investment
ratio would be compatible with a stabilization of the current account deficit
at a sustainable level of $0.8 biilion. It would also be consistent, under
the above assumptions, with a GDP growth accelerating from 2.1Z in 1985 to
4.2% in 1990. However, external borrowings in this scenario are projected to
increase from $2 billion in 1985 to $3 billion in 1990 as repayments of debts
rescheduled in 1983 or contracted in the early 1980's fall due. The debt
service ratio in these projections would remain in the range of 37Z in the
second half of the eighties and would gradually decline thereafter.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
25.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 63 projects, financing
a total of $2,.40 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,365 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits, totalling $51 million,
have been made available for five projects and a Third Window loan for $25
million has been made for an education project. IFC investments have amounted
to $99.3 million ($59.1 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of October 31, 1983 and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
Overall performance in project execution is satisfactory, although several
projects requiring counterpart contributions from the Government have recently
been delayed because of severe budgetary constraints.
26.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 27 percent and 24 percent,
respectively of total commitmeuts; the balance is represented by utilities
(13 percent), education (9 percent), roads (9 percent), tourism (7 percent),
energy (6 percent) and urban development (5 percent). The main objectives of
Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen development
institutions and to increase productive capacity, in order to improve the
balance of payments. While these objectives remain, Bank lending now also
focuses on supporting a number of other policy objectives: to contribute to
the reduction of the Treasury deficit; to lower unit costs for the delivery of
basic services, widen their distribution among regions and increase access by
lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution. Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to persist over
the medium-ternm, projects now under preparation are being designed to minimize
their reliance on budgetary finance. In general, Bank lending will aim to
support, to an increasing extent, implementation of key structural reforms
being prepared by the Government (para. 19).



Four lines of credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) have helped
provide credit to farmers. An irrigation project aims at development of small
and medium schemes. Increased export earnings are expected to result from the
Bank-supported proiect for Vegetable Marketing and Production, as well as from
a project currently unider preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal
fishing industry. The scope of future lending to agriculture is likely to be
expanded to include projects aimed at improving input supply and marketing
nationwide. Consideration may be given to sector lending in agriculture to
support the implementation of policy reforms emerging from a study of
agricultural incentives being initiated by the Government (para. 42).
28.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings have also been the key
objectives of Bank projects in industry, mining and tourism and led to nine
lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(BNDE) for industrial projects and four lines of credit to Credit Immobilier
et Hotelier (CIR) for tourism projects. A project to increase mineral export
earnings and raise the incomes of small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco
was approved by the Board in FY82. An Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment
Loan, aimed at implementation of key reforms to promote exports and improve
industrial efficiency, is likely to be presented to the Board shortly.
29.      Projects in basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families and a third urban project is helping
to provide finance to low income housing. Two highway projects support the
Government's road maintenance efforts and improve rural access roads. A loan
for village electrification is helping bring power to over a hundred small
towns and villages, and a third water supply project is providing access to
safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas. Further projects for ports,
telecommunications, water supply and sewerage, designed to minimize budgetary
contributions, are under preparation. A health project would aim at improving
the delivery of basic health services at minimum budgetary cost.
30.      Five education projects have focused on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, on expanding basic education in the rural
areas and on ensuring a greater orientation in primary schooling towards
practical training. Further lending will be focussed on vocational training
and on primary education, and would support important reforms essential to
render the education system more efficient and reduce the growth of budgetary
expenditures.
31.      In order to reduce Morocco's dependence on oil imports, the
Government has made considerable efforts to develop national resources,
notably of gas and oil shale. These efforts are being supported by the Bank
through a first gas exploration project and an engineering project aimed at
studying the viability of developing the country's oil shale resources. A
second exploration and appraisal project is recently under implementation, and
additional projects for coal and hydropower development are being studied.



- 10 -
32.      Morocco's disbursement performance improved in FY83, in part because
of measures taken to improve monitoring and procedures for submission of
disbursement requests to the Bank. However, disbursement shortfaLls are still
being experienced, mainly because of the appreciation of the dollar and, to an
increasing extent, because of delays in execution of projects relying on
budgetary contributions. A Country Implementation Review is at present
underway to develop proposals for the appropriate restructuring of projects
and acceleration of disbursements in the light of the Government's budgetary
situation and overall investment priorities.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT SUBSECTMR
Agricultural Sector Background
33.      About 60 percent of Morocco's 20 million inhabitants live in rural
areas and their numbers are increasing by about 1.4 percent per year as
compared to a national average of 2.6 percent annual population growth. In
1979-81 the agricultural sector contributed some 17 percent to GDP, 29 percent
of total exports and employed about 52 percent of Morocco's labor force.
Arable land covers about 7.7 million ha, while areas suitable for forestry and
grazing cover a further 20 million ha. About 5.8 million ha are cultivated
each year, mainly under cereals (4.6 million ha), pulses (500,000 ha), fruit
trees (140,000 ha), and sugar beet (60,000 ha). Most of Morocco's rainfed
areas are characterized by traditional agricultural practices which result in
low crop yields and low livestock productivitIv Permanent irrigation covers
between 800,000 and 1,000,000 ha.
34.      Agricultural production has grown less rapidly than demand over the
past fifteen years leading to a rapid increase in imports. The value of food
imports during the same period has grown by about 21 percent per year while
that of exports has only grown by some 6 percent per year. Development in
agriculture has, however, been uneven. The introduction of modern farming
techniques coupled with attractive producer prices has, ir. the case of sugar
beet and cane, milk and vegetables, resulted in substan.ial increases in
production. On the other hand, crops such as cereals, cotton, pulses and
edible oils have yielded little or no increase in production due inter alia to
a combination of poor cultivation techniques aad inadequate pricing and
marketing policies.
35.      The Government's objectives in the agricultural sector - as reflected
in the 1981-85 Development Plan - are: i) improvement of staple food
self-sufficiency and increase of exports - particularly fruit and vegetables;
ii) reduction of regional income disparities; and iii) better valorization of
agricultural production through increased processing and improved marketing.
In order to meet these objectives the Government has increased investments in
agriculture from 17.4 percent of total public investments under the 1978-80
Plan to 22.5 percent under the present Plan. Furthermore, the share of
investments allocated to large scale irrigation projects has been reduced from
above 60 percent to 40 percent and that of rainfed agricultural development



- 11 -
has been increased from 2 percent to 18 percent. The Government is also
taking steps to; (a) improve price policies to ensure attractive returns to
farmers, b) revise the 1969 Agricultural Investment Code to promote a better
use of agricultural resources, c) improve land ownership structure, and
d) expand the role and lending program of the Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA).
Sector issues Affecting Agricultural Credit
3b.      Land distribution in Morocco is relatively skewed with 80 percent of
farm families owning 5 ha or less and accounting for 25 percent of the
cultivable land. The average farm size is about 5 ha, but farms are highly
fragmented, with an average size of parcels being 0.64 acres, too small for
erficient rainfed farming. Most private farmers do not have recognized legal
titles to their land and cannot offer guarantees to obtain credit for on-farm
investments. In addition, absentee landlords and tenancy arrangements offer
tenants little security and consequently no incentives to improve their
lands. A number of land reform measures are currently under study or being
carried out on an experimental basis, partly within che framework of Bank
executed projects.
37.      Use of tractors and combine harvesters in Morocco is limited, with
only about one tractor per 330 ha of cultivable land and one combine per 3,000
ha (as compared to one tractor per 110 ha and 5U ha of cultivable land in
Tunisia and Algeria, respectively). Because of M4orocco's relatively short
rainfall period and an annual rainfall between 100 and 200 mm, it is extremely
important that land preparation and planting be carried out at the most
opportune time. If planting under semi-arid conditions is not carried out
immediately after a good rain, a substantial part of the growing season is
wasted. PLoughing with animal traction in Morocco can only commence after
some 150 mm of rain have fallen to loosen the soil. Sowing under such
conditions usually occurs much later than in mechanized areas, leading to
moisture losses, shorter growing seasons and thus lower yields (applied
research in Morocco has indicated that the difference can be as much as 0.3
t/ha). In consequence, farmers with holdings of between 5 and 20 ha have
become increasingly interested in using tractors as a means of improving farm
productivity and reducing land under fallow (which at present covers between
25 percent and 30 percent of arable land in Morocco). Under the project, CNCA
lending for tractors would increase substantially for medium and large
farmers, and the well-established tractor rental market would equally benefit
small farmers.
38.      During the last decade, combine harvesting of cereals, together with
bailing of straw has become increasingly attractive as a means of offsetting
seasonal labor shortage and the high cost of migrant workers. It is also
desirable since inability to harvest in time often results in considerable
grain losses - due primarily to grain shattering and cattle encroachment.
CNCA would also lend for purchasing combine harvesters and stationary
tnresning machines under the project, though on a modest scale (less than 500).



- 12 -
39.      The Moroccan price control mechanism is cumbersome and inefficient
and there are indications that a large part of agricultural input subsidies
benefit mainly large farmers. The Government has decided to review the impact
on public finance and agricultural production of the 1969 Agricultural
Investment Code which provides the framework for a rational use of
agricultural resources.  Funds for the study are provided under the on-going
Bank financed Loukkos Project (Loan 1848-MOR). The Government will
furthermore, with Bank assistance, undertake an Agricultural Production
Incentive Study to analyze the effects of prices and subsidies on agricultural
production in Morocco. Discussions regarding the scope of the study are
underway.
40.      Agricultural support services are as yet inadequate.  Research has
been ineffective due to inadequate attention to practical farming problems,
poor dissemination of results and insufficient financial and human resources.
With Bank assistance, the preparation of a Research Master Plan is underway as
a first step to define research policies and priorities.  Extension efforts
have not been successful in diffusing improved technology, except for
industrial crops in modern irrigation perimeters. This is mainly due to
poorly defined extension objectives and messages, the lack of trained
personnel and insufficient operating funds. A reform began in 1980 with the
establishment of a Directorate of Extension in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (MARA). An Extension Master Plan is under preparation with
Bank assistance, and is expected to be completed by mid-1984.
41.      Large scale investments in agroindustries have been supported by
government finance, foreign suppliers and industrial development banks and
agencies while small- and medium-agroindustries do not receive adequate
attention. As a result, most agroindustrial investments are large, capital
intensive and located in urban rather than rural areas. Under the project,
lending in this area would be primarily targeted to small- and medium-scale
agro-industries.
Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy
42.      Over recent years the Bank has supported the Government's efforts to
develop agriculture in rainfed areas. This will remain the focus for coming
years, during which increasing attention will be given to institutional
reforms aimed at establishing competitive interest rates and rational producer
prices and incentives. The CNCA project would constitute a corner stone in
this effort as a means for providing farmers the credits required to purchase
inputs and equipment, and establishing CNCA as a viable and effective credit
institution. Within the framework of the ongoing dialogue between the Bank
and the Government, other measures envisaged include a review of present
incentives and price policies in agriculture, rationalization of fertilizer
distribution, improving cereals marketing and storage, and strengthening
research and extension. In addition, the Bank will assist the Government in
better articulating its role in the sector, and in enhancing its project
preparation and evaluation capacity. In parallel with these efforts, the
Bank's strategy includes lending to irrigation as a means of developing the
financial autonomy, through improved cost recovery, of the regional offices
responsible for operating the large scale irrigation perimeters.



- 13 -
The Agricultural Credit Bank - Caisse Nationale de Crddit Agricole (CNCA)
43.      CNCA, an autonomous Government owned Bank, was established in 1961 to
provide loans for agricultural inputs, on-farm investments and marketing to
individual farmers, farmers' groups and cooperatives, and companies. Its
Board of Directors is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and includes
representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, Interior, the
Central Bank and farmers. CNCA is administered by a Managing Committee
presided by a Director General. Loans to companies, cooperatives, and very
large farmers are handled at CNCA's headquarters, located in Rabat. Loans to
farmers with a fiscal income above DH 3,000 (about $375) 11 and cooperatives
are processed and supervised by CNCA's 36 regional branches, the Caisses
Regionales de Credit Agricole (CRCAs). Loans to small farmers with a fiscal
income between DH 50($6) and DH 3,000 are processed by 95 local branches, the
Caisses Locales de Crddit Agricole (CLCAs) and 140 seasonal credit outlets.
Credit is not extended to farmers with a fiscal income below DH 50.
44.      Decentralization of lending responsibility, simplification of
procedures and expansion of the range of investments financed have been the
main characteristic of CNCA's credit policies since 1975. CNCA's objective
has been to provide maximum access to credit, make the provision of credit
rapid and simple and adapt credit norms to regional agroeconomic conditions.
By and large, CNCA has been successful in this effort.
45.      CNCA staff numbered 1,830 as of the end of 1982.  Staff are qualified
and productivity is high. Staff training has been somewhat curtailed in
recent years and concentrated on initial training for new recruits, but has
recently been given renewed priority and a new training department has been
created. The development and implementation of a new training program would
be included in the project.
46.      Over the period of 1977-82, total lending increased at an annual rate
of 6 percent in real terms, reaching DH 1,499 million ($187 million) in
1981/82. Over the same period, the share of short-term loans in total lending
remained stable around 55 percent. Loans received by CLCAs' clients increased
from 24 percent of total CNCA's lending in 1977/78 to 27 percent in 1981/82.
CNCA's lending procedures are governed by "credit guidelines" which are
revised every year in collaboration with MARA, and basically aims at covering
70 percent of estimated production costs or investment costs. Overall, CNCA's
appraisal criteria and procedures are adequate. Loans to small farmers are,
in most cases, based on their estimated fiscal incomes, and ceilings are set
for maximum borrowing. In order to expand credit coverage to small farmers, a
pilot scheme was introduced in 1981 under the Bank-financed Fez-Karia-Tissa
Agricultural Project (1602-MOR), under which the farmers repayment capacity
has been set at 50 percent of projected incomes rather than on the fiscal
income. In the project area this has led to a doubling of the unit size of
short-terms loans to CLCA clients, and loan recoveries appear satisfactory.
1/ Fiscal income is based on predetermined values for agricultural assets
held by farmers. It is estimated for tax purposes. Depending upon the
crops grown, real annual net farm income ranges from 3 to 20 times more
than fiscal income.



- 14 -
however, results of field surveys to determine the impact of increased credit
on input use and production are not available.  CNCA would analyze the impact
of tne new policies before December 31, 1985 and determine if the new norms
can be extended to other parts of Morocco (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section
I1I).
47.      Interest rates vary according to the type of investments, ranging
from 7 to 11 percent for snort-term loans (3 to 12 months), and from 10 to 13
percent for medium- and long-term loans (2 to 20 years). These rates, which
were introduced in September 1983, are similar to those charged by commercial
banks and the industrial development bank for similar loans, and are positive
in real terms.
48.      CNCA's resources grew at 13 percent per annum in real terms during
the 1977-82 period, to a total of DH 2,673.5 million ($334.2 million) as of
August 31, 1982. This increase was mostly due to the growth of long-term
borrowing (26.8 percent p.a.) and deposits (20.4 percent p.a.). As of
August 31, 1982, long-term borrowing represented about 38 percent of CNCA's
total resources, short-term borrowing 25 percent, deposits 17 percent, equity
and special funds, including provisions for bad debts, 20 percent. Since
1979, CNCA has emphasized mobilization of private rural savings but its
efforts have had only limited success due to low deposit rates, inadequate
banking services, staff inexperienced in the banking field, and farmers'
preference for savings through acquisition of real assets. Institutional
improvements to promote mobilization of rural and urban savings would be
undertaken under the proposed project.
49.      CNCA's financial position is good, reflecting its efficient
management and excellent loan recovery rate (70-85 percent annually).
Although the equity to total assets ratio decreased from 27.3 percent in
1977/78 to 13.7 percent in 1982, it remains satisfactory and reflects adequate
capitalization. CNCA's long-term debt to equity ratio is at 2.6 within the 4
to 1 ceiling set under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No.
1704-MOR), and its current ratio of 1.3 indicates a favorable liquidity
position and complies with the requirements under the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project. Net profits increased more than three times from 1977/78 to
l181/8z, reaching DH 19.1 million ($2.4 million) as of August 31, 1982.
However, this only amounted to 5.5 percent of equity, which prevented CNCA
from accumulating adequate retained earnings. CNCA's financial viability is
expected to improve considerably following the recent increase in interest
rates (para. 47).
Performance under previous Bank Financed Agricultural Projects
50.      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to
date 18 projects have been supported by $614.4 million (net of cancellations)
in Bank/IDA funds. They include six irrigation projects (three of which are
completed) and five rainfed projects; a vegetable production and marketing
project; a forestry project; and four credit projects. Project performance to
date is generally satisfactory, although irrigation projects suffered
initially from poor coordination between and within participating ministries,



- 15 -
which resulted in delays in construction and in acquisition of irrigation
equipment. A Project Performance Audit Report has been prepared for the
Sebou I Project (FY70) (Report No. 3942) and for the Doukkala I Irrigation
Project (FY76) (Report No. 4236).  In the case of Sebou I, the Report stresses
the Project's success in institution building as well as in increasing
production through the provision of adequate infrastructure. It also
highlights tne importance of successful extension, timely allocation of funds,
and collection of water charges. In the case of Doukkala I, the Project was
successfully completed with a rate of return that exceeded appraisal
estimates. The Report also stresses the effective irrigation network design,
strong management and adequate extension. Both Projects were also successful
in reducing land fragmentation, thus facilitating the introduction of improved
cropping systems. Among rainfed agriculture projects, which are mostly still
at an early stage of execution, implementation has generally been satisfactory
so far, although project implementation appears to be slowing down due to the
present financial crisis facing the Government.
51.      There have been four Bank-financed Agricultural Credit Projects in
Horocco for which CNCA was the Borrower. The thr?e first projects were
audited by the Operations Evaluation Department 1 which stressed the
contribution made by the Projects to agricultural development, their success
in establishing an efficient credit institution and the successful expansion
of credit to small farmers. However, institutional improvements such as
monitoring and evaluation systems, progress reporting to the Bank and lending
norms for small farmers could be further improved. These issues were
addressed under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project.
52.      The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (FY79) for $70 million was
co-financed by the Federal Republic of Germany through the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) for $50 million equivalent and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development for t25 million equivalent. Because of slower than
anticipated disbursements related primarily to a severe drought, disbursements
were completed slightly later than expected. An analysis of a sample of CNCA
loan recipients indicated that financial and economic rates of return on
on-farm investments were close to appraisal estimates. The main problems have
been reaching lending targets for the Agrarian Reform Cooperative and
agroindustries. This is mainly due to the severe drought in 1980/81, general
recession in Morocco and lack of promotion efforts by CNCA in lending for
agroindustries. Interest rates were raised to comply with Project
requirements but they were still negative in real terms in 1981 and 1982, and
have consequently affected CNCA's profitability (as indicated in para. 47,
they have now been raised). CNCA's monitoring and evaluation system needs
further improvement. These issues would be addressed under the Project.
1/ See "Operations Evaluation Report - Agricultural Credit Programs", Report
No. 1357 of November 18, 1976 for the First Agricultural Credit Project,
Report No. 2453 of June 25, 1979 for the Second and Report No. 3245,
December 23, 1980 for the Third.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Obiective. and Background
53.      The project would aim at stimulating agricultural growth, increasing
rural incomes and provide rural employment. The vehicle for achieving this
objective and the rationale for Bank involvement is to strengthen CNCA's
management efficiency, financial situation and resource mobiLization capacity
as a means of increasing private investments in agriculture, and particularly
improving access of small farmers to agricultural credit. The project was
identified by CNCA with the assistance of Bank missions during supervision of
the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project. Project preparation was carried out
by CNCA and Bank appraisal was completed in March 1983. Negotiations were
held in Washington between October 14 and 18, 1983. The Moroccan delegation
was led by Mr. Bouarfa, Director General of CNCA. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4654-H0R dated November 22, 1983) is being distributed separately. The
main features of the Loan and Project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex 3.
Project Description
54.      The Project would cover all eligible investments projected to be
financed by CNCA during the period of September 1, 1983 to August 31, 1986 and
would include:
a)   farm investments by small farmers borrowing through CLCAs for
livestock, draft animals, stables, wells and pumps, land improvement
and small equipment;
b)   farm investments by Agrarian Reform Cooperatives, whose members are
mostly small farmers, for the same objects as financed for small
farmers, plus farm mechanization;
c)   farm investments by medium and large farmers borrowing through CNCA
headquarters and the CRCAs for the same objects as for cooperatives
and small farmers. Subloans would also be made for sugarcane
plantation establishment and maintenance undertaken by small holders
in large irrigation perimeters under the supervision of Offices
Rdgionaux de Mise en Valeur;
d)   agroindustrial investments, primarily small- and medium-scale in
rural areas including: fruit and vegetable processing and packing,
olive oil and milk processing, animal feed, flour milling, bakeries,
meat processing, poultry farming and cold storage;
e)   construction, rehabilitation, and extension  of CNCA'S rural
branches; and
f)   development of CNCA's management information system, monitoring and
evaluation, deposit mobilization strategy, and staff training program
(which would be supported by up to 55 manmonths of technical
assistance).



- 17 -
Project Implementation, Organization and Staff
55.      CNCA would be the Borrower and executing agency.  The Government has
recently re-emphasized the role of CNCA in the development of the country's
agricultural sector, and defined the main themes of CNCA's future objectives
and organization: (a) expansion of farmers' coverage and regionalization of
activities; (b) increased mobilization of domestic savings; and (c) financial
autonomy and viability of the institution. To reach these objectives, CNCA
has developed preliminary plans for the implementation of a number of
inter-related actions including (a) the development of its banking activities;
(b) the extension and rehabilitation of its physical infrastructure; (c) the
establishment of an improved Management Information System (MIS); and (d) the
improvement of staff training.
56.      Development of Banking Activities.  During the project period CNCA
would implement a program to increase its deposit mobilization efforts by;
(a) opening about 20 new branches offering banking services and introducing
such services in selected existing branches in rural areas; (b) promoting the
use of savings passbooks; (c) opening banking outlets in urban areas; (d)
rehabiLitating existing facilities; and (e) implementing staff training
programs on banking techniques. A detailed program has been prepared for 1984
and a program for later years would be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1985
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). In addition, CNCA would maintain interest
rates on deposits competitive with those of other financial institutions in
Morocco (Loan Agreement, Section 5.09; Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.02 (b)(i)).
57.      Physical Infrastructure.  During the project period, CNCA would open
8 new CRCAs and ll new CLCAs in areas where there is a high concentration of
potential clients currently without easy access to CNCA's branches. To
promote its banking activities, new buildings would be constructed for about
17 existing branches, and the facilities of 14 others would be renovated.
_NCA employs a full time architect and would be responsible for the
preparation of tender documents and supervision of construction. CNCA has
submitted its construction and renovation program for the entire project
period, with phasing of activities and estimated costs, and the detailed
program to be executed during the first year of the Project.
58.      Management Information System.  In an effort to overhaul its
management information system, CNCA is reviewing its accounting system and
replacing its aging computer hardware. Under the project, CNCA would
furthermore: (a) develop and introduce an improved electronic data processing
system; (b) introduce medium-term management planning and budgeting for each
functional unit; and (c) establisn an internal management control unit. The
services of specialists in accounting procedures and electronic data
processing would be obtained before March 31, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02 (i)), and a detailed plan for introduction of the new systems would be
submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04 (i)). The internal management control unit would also be established by
Deeember 31, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 (ii)).



- 1$ -
J9.      StafE Training and Compensation.  Because of the projected growth of
lending and deposit activities, CNCA staff is expected to increase from 1,B30
at end 19I to around 2,4UU in 1986. CNCA would not have any difficulty in
recruiting thie necessary additional staff. Staff salaries have been recently
increased and are now competitive with other banking institutions for low and
middle level staff. They are still substantially lower for higher management
staff, but new statutes about to be approved would allow UNCA to offer fully
competitive salaries also for higher management staff. CNCA wouLd then
maintain salaries and benefits at levels competitive with those of comparable
institutions (Loan Agreement, Section 4.U3, Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.0Z (b)(i)). As regards training, CNGA management has defined priority areas
for staff training activities (accounting, inspection), and established a new
Training Department which is being staffed. Under the project CNCA would
recruit a consultant before June 30, 1984 to design in detail a revised
training program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (ii)), review recommended
training activities before December 31, 1984, and thereafter implement them
(Loan Agreenment, Section 3.05).
bU.      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system established by CNCA under the Third Agricultural Credit Project was
mainly designed to assess the impact of CNCA lending on agricultural
production, input use, employment and farm income. The system was suspended
in l980 due to insufficient analytical data and inadequate processing capacity
of UNCA. Furthermore, it somewhat duplicated certain M&E activities
undertaken by MARA. Under the project, CNCAHs M&E would concentrate on
monitoring the characteristics of CRCA and CLCA cLients and of subloan
utiLizatLon, including detailed field supervision of at least 5 percent of its
CLCA medium- and long-term borrowers (systematic supervision of Headquarters'
and URGA borrowers is already enforced). Such monitoring would provide CNCA
management with information on the effectiveness of its lending norms and
policies. The new M&E system would be established by March 31, 1985 ((Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06). Two man-months of consultant services could be
provided to assist CNCA in designing and introducing the proposed M&E system.
61.      Interest Rates and CNCA Financial Viability.  To protect CNCA's
financial viability, in view of projected increases in the cost of financial
resources, CNCA would review annually before June 30 in each fiscal year
starting in 1984 its interest rate and financial margins to ensure its
financial viability (Loan Agreement, Section 5.11; Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02 (b)(ii)). In order to protect CNCA's financial viability, the
specific financial objectives of CNCA would include: Ci) to maintain average
interest rates positive in real terms; (ii) to generate annual profits
representing a positive real return on its equity and a minimum return of 10
percent on its equity for its FY84/85, and 12 percent every year thereafter;
and (iii) to ensure that the annual revenue of the CLCAs would cover all their
administrative and financial expenses and provisions for bad debts. CNCA
would maintain a prudent financial structure by assuring that (a) its medium
and long-term debt (including deposits over 12 months) would not be greater
than six times its equity (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05); and (b) it would
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than
120 percent (Loan Agreement, Section 5.07). Finally, CNCA wouLd not lend more



- 19 -
than 2u percent of its equity to one single borrower, unless the amount
exceeding such portion is fully guaranteed by the Government (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.1U).
60.      Agroindustrial Lending.  Lending to agroindustries would be oriented
towards small- and medium-scaLe enterprises (defined in Morocco as having
investments in equipment alone of Less than DH 5.0 million) (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, Section 1, Part A 2(a)). The purpose of the component is to
provide an outlet for agricultural production by encouraging the establishment
of marketing and processing enterprises, thus creating additional employment
and value added. Lending would be limited to enterprises which demonstrably
have adequate input supply and marketing plans, as well as satisfactory legal,
administrative and financial structures. Subprojects would also have to have
an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4,
Section 1, Part A 2(v)). Subloans estimated to cost DH 5.0 million or more
and the first subloan in each sub-sector would be submitted to the Bank for
approval (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Section 3 (b) and (c)).
63.      UNCA's strategy to promote agroindustrial lending is based on four
components: (a) promotional campaigns; (b) technical assistance to
entrepreneurs (legal, financial, technical); (c) cooperation with national
institutions concerned with agroindustries; and (d) gradual decentralization
of agroindustrial lending. This strategy, introduced in January 1983, has
already led to agroindustrial lending (loans to agroindustries reached DH 19.0
million during the first nine months of the 1982/83 campaign as compared to
DH 7.0 million during the same period the preceeding year). Under the project
CNCA would select a pilot region where it would open an office representing
its agroindustrial department as a means of intensifying its efforts to expand
agroindustrial lending (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
Project Costs and Financing
64.      The total Project cost is estimated at $601.9 million equivalent
(including $60.6 million in taxes) of which 32 percent ($190.9 million) would
be in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies for the construction component
are estimated at 15 percent for CNCA's physical infrastructure and 10 percent
for electronic data processing equipment and technical assistance. Price
contingencies are based on projected international price inflation of 8
percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent
thereafter, and domestic inflation rates of 9 percent in 1983-84, and 7.5
percent thereafter. CNCA would finance about 38 percent oE total project
costs from its own resources. Sub-borrowers would finance 23 percent of total
project costs as their equity contribution to farm and agro-industrial
investments. The Government would provide investment subsidies (paid to
importers or retailers) amounting to about 7 perLent of total on-farm
investments. The remaining gap of $197.4 million (about 33 percent of total
project costs) would be financed by the proposed Bank Loan to CNCA for $115.4
million, including a front-end fee of about $0.3 million, a loan from the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) to CNCA for $26 million
equivalent, a loan from the African Development Bank (ADB) to CNCA for
$32 million equivalent, and loans from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW)
to CNCA for a total of $24 million equivalent.



- 20 -
65.      The Bank Loan to CNCA would be for a period of 17 years including a
4-year grace period at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.    The
Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to protect CNCA
against the foreign exchange risks in connection with service of the Bank Loan
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03). CNCA would absorb risks from variable
interest rates. The AFESD loan would be for a period of 15 years, including a
five-year grace period at an interest rate of 6 percent. The ADB loan would
be for a period of 14 years, including a four-year grace period at an interest
rate of 11 percent. The KfW loans would be for a period of 30 years each,
including a ten-year grace period at an interest rate of 2 percent. The
signing of the ADB and the first KfW loan agreements, and the requests for the
AFESD loan and for the second KfW loan would be additional conditions of
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). The Government would provide or
assist CNCA in obtaining any additional resources required for CNCA's
operations under the project (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02).
Procurement
66.      Contracts for the purchase of electronic data processing equipment
(US$l,0 million) would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Civil works for
construction and rehabilitation of CNCA's branches ($7.7 million) would be
small (average contract cost about $0.3 million), scattered in space and time,
and thus would not be suitable for ICB. Contracts for such works would be
awarded on the basis of LCB acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule
5, Parts A and B). The range of goods to be financed under on-farm and
agroindustry investments is varied and would not be suitable for bulk
procurement. Sub-borrowers would purchase goods of their choice in accordance
with established commercial practices in Morocco. Suppliers, including both
foreign and local dealers, sell a large variety of goods; necessary service
facilities are available; competition is keen and prices are competitive.
Contracts for technical assistance, valued at about *10,000 per man-month for
about 55 man-months in total, including subsistence and international travel,
would be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
67.      Bidding packages for works estimated to cost over 4300,000 as well as
the first two contracts concerning civil works regardLess of their amount
would be subject to the Bank's prior approval (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5,
Part C 2). This would represent prior review by the Bank of about 83 percent
of total contract values. Other contracts would be subject to random review
by the Bank after contract award.
Disbursement
68.      The commitment period of the Bank Loan to CNCA is three years
(September 1, 1983 to August 31, 1986) and CNCA's disbursements to
sub-borrowers would be in accordance with the phasing of individual subproject
development. Retroactive financing up to $11.0 million is proposed for
eligible subloans from September 1, 1983 to bridge the gap between the



- 21 -
previous project and the now proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
Section 3 (a)). The Bank would reimburse CNCA against certified statementa of
expenditures for 23 percent of subloans disbursed to small farmers, 20 percent
to cooperatives, 26 percent to medium and large farmerg, and 75 percent for
agroindustries. The Bank Loan would also finance 50 percent of total
expenditures for CNCA's physical infrastructure, 80 percent of total
expenditures for electronic data processing equipment, and 75 percent of total
expenditures for technical assistance to CNCA. The Loan is expected to be
fully disbursed by August 31, 1987.
Reporting, Accounts and Audit
69.      CNCA. would submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports on the
implementation of the project within two months of the end of each semester in
a format acceptable to the Bank, annual reports on the operations of its
subloan monitoring system within three months of the close of the year
concerned, and a Project Completion Report not later than six months after the
Closing Date. CNCA has a satisfactory accounting system. Audits are done
annually by independent auditors which are acceptable to the Bank. (Audit
reports of adequate standards for previous loans have been received by the
Bank.) Audit reports would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end
of each CNCA fiscal year (September 1 - August 31) (Loan Agreement, Section
5.UZ (b)).
Benefits and Justification
70.      The Project would increase crop, milk and meat production in Morocco
through changed cropping patterns, increased crop yields, and livestock
improvements. Incremental annual production at full development is estimated
as follows: cereals 176,200 tons, pulses 16,200 tons, vegetables 475,000,
fruits 78,300 tons, olives 12,200 tons, milk 274,500 tons, and meat 27,800
tons. The major part of the incremental production would be used to satisfy
domestic demand for food, although some pulses, fruit and vegetables may be
exported.
71.      About 580,000 farm families are expected to receive CNCA loans.
About 510,000 families are small farmers with incomes at or below the relative
poverty level (estimated at S260 in 1979) who would receive about 46 percent
of total amount of credit to individual farmers. They would thus receive less
credit per farm than larger clients reflecting smaller farm sizes, productive
potential and debt capacity. In addition to CLCA clients, about 8500 members
of Agrarian Reform Cooperatives, who are mostly small farmers, would obtain
credits under the project. Analysis of illustrative farm models (various farm
sizes with different types of investments) indicates that incomes would
increase significantly and that incentives to undertake envisaged on-farm
investments are high. The Project would generate substantial direct
employment despite the fact that it would provide investments for
mechanization. It is estimated that some 50,600 man-years of additional
family labor and the equivalent of 28,000 permanent jobs would be created.
Average cost per job created would thus be about *7,300.



- 22 -
72.      CNCA's financial viability would be established and maintained, thus
consolidating the basis for future expansion with diminishing recourse to
concessional funding. Project balance sheets and income statements for CNCA
indicates that it would preserve a satisfactory liquidity position and
financial structure throughout the Project period. CNCA's net worth would
increase from DR 365 million ($45.6 million) to DR 640 million ($80.0 million)
as of August 3l, 1986. This increase would be mostly achieved through
increased profitability and retained earnings. Annual net profits would
increase steadily over the period from 5.5 percent to 12 percent of CNCA's
equity.
73.      Economic rates of return (ERRs), estimated for illustrative farm
models, range from 13 to 70 percent. Financial rates of return tFRRs) range
from 18 to 60 percent. Although these rates indicate that the envisaged
investments are economically and financially viable, investments for
mechanization and livestock generate a lower return to Morocco's economy than
to farmers due to Government subsidies on meat and milk prices and
agricultural equipment. Investments in irrigation equipment and fruit-tree
plantations generate higher ERRS than FRRs, suggesting price distortions which
prevent an economically efficient allocation of resources.  The proposed
review of the investment incentives provided under the Agricultural Investment
Code and the Agricultural Production Incentive Study (para. 39) would analyze
the issue and provide the basis for policy dialogue with the Government.
Project Risks
74.      The major risk is that of adverse weather conditions which, on
average, occur once in every five years. The estimated average yields used in
illustrative farm models have taken this factor into account. Farmers'
abilicy to pay would likely be affected in such adverse years but
historically, the delay in repayments has not resulted in losjes for CNCA.
Furthermore, the Government is committed to cover CNCA's temporary liquidity
needs (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02). Other risks include adverse
changes in Government price policy and support services which could cause some
investments to become financially unviable. However, such a major shift is
unlikely during the Project period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Morocco and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to              -
the Executive Directors separately.
7b.      Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness include: (a) the signing of
tne ADS, and the first KfW loan agreements, and (b) application for the second
KfW loan and the AFESD loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). A special



- 23 -
condition of disbursement would be that all subloans for agroindustrial
investments costing DH 5.0 million or more and the first subloan in each field
would be submitted to the Bank for approval (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Part
3 (b), (c)).
77.      1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 22, 1983
Washington, D.C.



BEST COPY AVAIUBLE  -  -
TAL   norMPrage 1 of 6
ID510                - JOtLES IIUEATS3 T 
tWAcstamdm0  AU ACT       ) J_a
365?           (1667 33130 3373MWAi) lb
RUsT            NS!133UDLR rSs.|
1930       1,70a E3IAL          3. AFIA    D EAST   tAT. *3314  1*32
ma amman. .8
TOTAL                           1466/      £*6616/    44.6/c
TSO0. 190.2                                  00.1    202.27;
o wS 0*1W  Cm)                     210.0      310.0      300             t130.0                 2061L2
(EZOC' or COAL WmrlaLUWI)    172.0         217.0     3260               10.4                 1407.6
POSATIOR.I(D-lAR (TUMAIS)  11626.0    14903.0    208t.0
u*m FoN,LAhui a or TOT S)        29.3       34.6       *1.2             47.4                   639
POiIATIOu WOJECTIO@
75T47203 IN  WA 20D0 (aL)                            60.0
STAflOIU    DLATIDE CIML)                           IZ.5                .
AS. S     DaUFaW IPOP. 3 L                          2120
PJR  to .                      2G.0       33.6       13.2             31.0                   33.6
131 SQ. Jf. ACRt. LAW          61.1       74.9       39.3            49.0                    93.2
FOLAIO a  siea  (2)
0-14 U S4.3                              47.6       15.3             43.                    40.1
15-6 Ts                        32.6       48.3       31.1             52.3                   55.3
65 AM DANM                      2.6        4.2        3.1              3.3                    4.1
TOTS.                           2.6        2.5        3.0              2.9 -                  2.3
11383                           3.7        4.2        4.6              *.6                    3.7
16z  311t72 RSAE (MR TIN)        31.3       47.4       *6.2             42.5                   31.5
CRE WA6  RATE (E RTO0M)          23.4       17.2       12.5             12.0                    3.1
3006  WRPR OTllTIRATE             3.5        3.5        3.4              3.0                    2.0
FAULT PLAMZC
ACC5PIOR3 AML (TIUS)             ..      2Z.1        70.0/d
UsERS (20 or MA D UE             ..        1.0        3.4W7
Imam
I-= ar no moe. PER CAPT
(1969-71-100)                     M.O       n.e        63.0             97.5                  113.0
acan slmL r 
CaOamzS Ca OF  11uNu          101.0      103.0      110.0            102.3                  111.3
o ce    ain oar)       65.0       66.0       70.0             72.0                   67.9
or Mic *nia AN P5.8           14.0       13.0       11.0,.           17.3                   34.1
C.D (AQS 1) DUEAT 1At            36.3       26.6       L4.5             15.2                    5.3
LIP  maCT. AT 3II (TEAM          46.7       51.7       56.9             37.2                   64.6
XWAN? aS. RT (CM SC)            160.3    t16.4        104.3            104.2                   62.6
*ACCES TO SAPlfMM (ZION)
TOS.                           30.6       51.0       55.0/i           39.3                   64.9
11AN                          S3.7          .0      loo.07t           84.9                   77.8
1m.                             N19.0     23.0       25.07J           37.5                   44.3
*czas To 1313254 DD15105K
CZ or PoRaTIN
TOs                              ..       29.          ..               ..                   54.6
U_SA!                            ..       75.0         ..               ..                   69.3
RISL.                            ..        4.0         ..               ..                   29.3
fOPMILATIOU PM iuicnx            10.0    12310.0    11200.0           3336.0                 1776.0
pO. gm  nag   13333                ..     2740.0     1830.0/          132.7                  1012.2
Pop. P USnsPIL T.
TO7tL                          630.0     660.0      770.0/u          613.3                  477.0
032*3                            ..      450.0      60.07;           5O5.0                  6W7.5
R111.                            ..     3330.0     3030.07;         2462.0                 1921.6
ADHISSIS PM ROSL  E                ..       15.3       L7.9/            26.4                   27.2
TOTL S..                                   5_ 3
gumII                           4.3        4..9
RURAL                           5.1        5.9
A41R*8X30. er P315NC/ROK
TOlUL                           2.2        2.4
Una                             2.1        2.1
RIMS.                           2.3        2.6
ACCESS To 3.3sT. CZOr 3LDNCS)
TOse                             ..         ..         ..              6.2
on"                              ..       66.4       65.0/.           77.6
RUR  ..   ..         ..              16.1                    ..



2 ,~.BEST COPY YAUILABLE
TAILR  3~~~                    ANNEX  T
7 A S L C 3A                              Page 2 of 6
_eto                  - SOCIAL ZNDMSRS Sau FSS
nmacm               -               I REFUZU lUWPS (WIGRU  AVKRAS) /a
MIST                     (MST RECS SCATI) /b
UCCII,T~~ ,p    I _ C z                    1           E IHCM
LOMA       197S lIAT             T. A       A M   C    LAT. ANECA * CARIB
ADJUSTED C IS   RAT
P1UN:  TOT.L                     67.0       52.0        76.0              89.6                  105.0
HIXM                  67.0         7.0       95.0             104.1                   106.2
TUELS                  27.0       36.0       330               72.4                   103.6
SUSN_T: TOTIL                     5.0       13.0       24.0               41.7                   40.0
maL.                   7.0        La.0       29.0              52.8                    38.6
Sw.!                   2.0         7.0       18.0              31.2                    *1.2
VWAT2O   Ct 0F SRC=NA)             30.2        2.3        1.3              10.3                    34.0
UUPIL-RACHU RATIO
MRAR                             42.0       34.0       38.0               31.1                   30.7
6.0       20.0       22.0              23.3                    16.7
ADLT LTEELAM RATS C2)              13.A       21.4       2L.0              43.3                    79.5
ASRuL CALSflOOAi P0P               10.7       14.8       20.83f            13.0                    45.6
mDI    lvu            aw   1      45.8        62.4      148.6             138.1                   228.z
TV                  pp              0.4       L1.6       37.1              45.6                   108.3
UUSPMR C      DI.? CRiMIE
UUU)CIROR.ATIDU
MM T1O0AD VOPLATION               22.1       16.2       11.3              31.0                    64.1
CDIMa ALMM  A          cap         1.5          ..        2.014             1.7                     2.9
Tor.L LUAO  COR (T3IM)           393".0    3294.0      5510.0
r30LC C(MaR1                     10.0       14.2       15.9              10.7                    24.8
AR!WLURlS (MPuN)             62.0       57.0        52.0              42.5                   31.3
INDUSTIT cVUi!3                  14.0       17.0       21.0              27.3                    23.9
FARUCZfATION RATE (CFERCRU
TOTEL                            29.1       26.3       26.4               25.6                   31.3
WALK                             32.1       45.2       *4.4              45.4                    49.3
TamLI!                            5.9        7.5        3.4               5.6                    14.8
S01IDIC DKFDUSC! RATIO             t.6         2.0        1.9               1.8                     1.6
3  DISUUKn=
P31C T    OF IIOIIS6 UO.0/                 20.0..
LS=? 208 OF Or NM41 43.3    49.7                         *-
-3!EST 2tW Q1 IIIIISCS            7.0j       4.*         .....
_~  608 0t USEU.S                18.021     12.072       .....
m   oum   -O  rIM
STD6&2ED ARM    IOVD.U 138O1
L"iL CU  PM CAPITA)
gum                             107.0      157.0      389.0              276.1                  289.3
RURAL                            66.0      201.0      233.0             177.1                   184.5
ESTSAZD ReAsYE PORni Dec03
LE. (CUSS Pri CAPA)
IRUD                               ..         ..      242.0             400.0                   519.3
RURL                               ..         ..      157.0             2U3.3                   372.1
ESTIDATS FOP. 83.0 AS4aL61
FOYER?  nCUS L1VE. CZ)
UR3                              51.0       38.0       28.0               22.0
LUR.                             49.0       45.0       45.0              30.8
MrT AVAELAN.
MUT APPLICALK
NOTES
/a The troop "eraes for erea  Indicator are population-weighted aritl_tic __ru. Coverae of countries a-og tbe
iadilAtors deped. on availability of data ad Is not untiorm.
/b  Woln othendSe noted. Data for 1960 refer to oe  yer bewen 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' betime  1969 and
1971; and data for Noet Rlcet Nutine betwoem 1979 and 1931.
/e 1Eludes the ex-Speni  Sahara; Ad 1976; /- 1977; /f 1973; & Conmption epeoditure of housheElds.
Hay 1933



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                                                       -__
Page 3 of 6
inarrmitm. OF owl"aistimcei
asttu     Aittmah t. das ito  in.  irea tmmc.c-we"     tp mi    tim not -athmtteliem 55 rmilmale, it miemid elms h. mmd timi timp -y mai be imntlemtic ii
c.mpormtio teime .  CM timtek of m-Lemd.dmed dfll te-i s.d emiepte nodl bt, ii4  reat somrts.e I. eatierttll Chmde. _7 TM dais me, maiomtaim,m.IMeta  ft
demirtim  wdrio  of mmcltuda. talcm." troes. sd cmmreeartmm snaim majot dtfflmetmc iummm comltrtmm.
lb. rmmeameem wmini  im Ci)d omoem  -emirp armp ml thin eshimt ommmtrF mmd (2) a entr  .o.  mitt ms-iNwht htair sMormal  imagm time tim cm-Up puamp ml tim
cmtjmet cs.mtrp Wanai for 'Rob lftmest UtI tpWmrisrmPmgi. Swim  toddle tins- knit Uric. MA  itdle bta t" is   men tecam. of mreager asclm-Camitri
*fltuttim).  Is tim   foelme  mam  p deata h tim sme are m      p --i-ts  umighisi, ertbmil  Nomamefr mmst t.edtrtet  o5 sima ml mimea majority af the commgrlmm Is.
grotw hmass Zee frtat islisama. lime. the seemingo sr ec.u";t.  aM, toIm imdtzsiro spmsim -CtM aeslishitti  .1 dat smi toMt coflen. eminmsO met 
mercimcd is re  imit  semraa of -M teuteim.   mcsime. Those smfarme aeo mlp msl.i i to mmpsttm Onm maLm  of sit tltwsm  at 5 tCs. Ms-  tim cfammr  ad
1!k M ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          yal~~~~~~~~~mm sttm it dimlledh b mnb or ol pimticimg
41pmtmpmt       simm Of ptimisL i.e offml mea  unevelys  per  a a i  twoR                          rmilitiAm  a   ete MNIWWs staeermity P       emmi. M     m
-    rmmia. awt melcoturel apra asrt Ipmstiy -eIN p SMrommt                   -aim .   immeLmarmimeae   imltm   trm.pmias  rs
1t.0 m7 plmdmtmmaeimditimg..st,i.Itm89.                                                   artiS  cmmttmtm
iON!r mm                                                                                      allm.Po sisti  pmrbpit ml d   pr tsi. omes and  rorol -PptstcCic!
- CUP par Cmpita mom tacm   at turnt arimi prima.                        biimi is poiesdptspaies  m   pcstm    sottsta
siccoaamy   S   mformedmlcctimd as Mmci Na itiem  (R7l-48 Wemlsht                      rehbhtitiatia amino. hBptLIsi   mrm aieMtlbboams pemasity miuSla
iwo. ice. me ia& am".                                                                      bya  len-t ao pbpmteleo. tetatil-si      o peMUiim  priNC.tmlly -maimlu
cmeesrO  at  laUiadm. html immitisim. bent, telim beLta am
usmaymacmi. paCOMrA - AM-WI spraccpim    Cimavsctes                                      dIrs  Wmlmr  at pmgrP smtir cuLlsf by * itnitta (ha hr a a n
prI r SM np teal7 Mmd halts, pmi-im..  utw    .  pdr-* MateI-m-ma-  moea. miSm                                          Wm.) Satle mffet Im-paeleet si_4it   .
mad imotimermi .ieetrtettr) tm tiicgrs- ay tet oqmteamim  Per sapitai                       pr Ude   .imi  "Mt. of mdetal Imeitttem. Pm. mtmtstieslpipa
liS0. 1070. -.  86 dm twoImitpitiml  RiseId tiN. prtmclptlgmmmerl. itmpupim. MLd tas
haumptisi. Lesomt mriCaolimepital is oWmadisi cmi enomipy s-mns.
NnWTOi S  VITAl. gTaflgTtCt                                         Spmeiettmm~~LLRd haplism o   larmLlmis mep mct teist.
TettUlmlmie.  td-YmWIih-m.d  -A. of Jmly isi two. 1970. cmd tNt                 MoftlsILn-1"lt-ti. - best tei., of mdotaiemm is or ilsomiga
ftimm -piitiWtidLc4    tim imimr 01 bhin.
rime Pmuilslle pmartewi of Mmtsi - bits. of arimm t total papolaticot
ano tomtriet tIna. 197). NW tIna his.                                                    ei      mlkiti  eys    ,imai )-tu.aemdrn
pbm~~~~tmclmo prologtoom  ~ ~   ~         ~         ~        ~       Ahoinaw-   .%ismit el s ir ,  Moi        =_ nt ie  Cm  mar5. liio urir
&W 1;!;=     31100.- Qmaa  pMpmLItMs pMjrmjN-t mm imis b-d lM IMMI timir mate Mmmt. A hearder -r Letter ap  W. a3 mat. imtalmdmd is
tsijjiitFc me D Mmamo      M otr -mnatity md foretuity                         tim teemoald lor mtlstimtlcs  prpmmm.
Mu.. Pr1'ojai   pm-ocraer for mortality "Wt.   wtepic  a) this                          eemnre    ocaprte-trl  rm,amm    er-
"I.ml amejaf Ltil  supmectmeer Lt tintb tetmetes aitt tmctr?ms Pmro..es  o   nieicm  mdrylmemi  smtm
sopite  imcomo bU-, me Imot-e Life smpattecy othitisteg etat   75deLIiema. rompeetwimmi. vtolieg  medls  mmm-pmummmt   aeteeme
amme. The pmremctmim £ m fortLityr mim als  tMu teme imL-A.isi  pei
aseetadaflais Im tili =aeisft toioeee, oeol. am pmmeamtipm    ottmttrIamc  fd.iem coaollyetmi                                                  1 m emd is
plm gpmrfammamcm. tatb anmey tm time asoigad  m of thmie ml..                      Commaiesi dsettt  mItt ltrtt   tita.qmt                       Percetato
ec.biesiatmeo    mrmsitir m.d Imntltry trmle In projatee poepamem.                     of total . met_, med r-ei daitoimt  repapmciim .
ftal~    "oUtlam- T. a miteimeep Ppmplotck  timve. m  M groci%
mm. imC   iim CM mb nu S.  im1Wl   i  delitss au  miOmeC tm gin
dramoa real  coect t. hTmL 1.  rtisml malp after fmertilityp reti              ~       m    IkhrqImaiumsm
dWaMet. dmo m.plse.Mmo  isml of melt -i .mprsiauis  mu..a whasiystEiiiiit Tie. m el ftme- rm   ocal. MLo am tmmols
-Cth mn-mite my  -e   implesam ItemIf emitt. Thb mmtieaerr.  imei. . cal ego  otti                                          a A IR= t a=  pmorcmtaeml rfmpmeflc
VPm.=islte  ime-  eClamed a do balm  si ab  peejamia Character-                          pr9oifflp met-i-im pmm.itotei aromlty imctedm- chilir  M"d I-lI
isis o  a  pm Miu  is ab jar 2100. ad am rote of deelc er                           jan tot adjmstci In diflrmimt haute my primap Seatmiu       o  NmW
Imertitty rat es imPloemeat heel.                                                        omeeit c        etumatlo   1hala     alottem Nusomlime Mar -amd me  oim
lirst attmanr pmmole"tt o is reitl - gotm a ,im. ,hismtottacmry                              lse. Cmec poptimoam bRae or stom  CIb of ftlai sebe 
popeia*eo m  mIll t. t.sihad.                                                           Ftas,ae     oeta.m   esm- ceptd -amt   m.i.
he..telusatreSctm   mmraz t3t Last rleer! Cer                                                                                  Mf      s  Paio"? laesmmtte;
Mrc.. - cad-yew. 1ps1clette Pee mombe %iicmmtm  (Inl imnen) Of                         prsmidm  mmount. mcottmli. or toeeimr itramt   utetmettc  for
~~E2ifls litO. 1170. ad tics dam.                                                      Pep10 amallp er 1.2 ft 17 ran my awl Cormepmmec  Calte sc
Po   . Im. m.rt.emo,si lets - CeMpe - sto  for sortecalorot Lead                         omenij ocrlsMd.
meii iS*ib~ m  ton me..Petsm   setmt(ots of, a                                                                                vs..  - e -el itlisutiae
PicAaime   i mr'icce (ewomu)- Cktilee   CO-li ymmwm). mrhig.cg  CUi                aid   mba.tiaslt  rcb e-                        ina= tbAct epiromit mp5
4 yem S) menuts(h  oimamd so.m) a  pmI.Cseum   of eadlyor                                 Natty or mm dmpmtimeim of s.mdrp taitaiem.
popoltmilit  tWA. ila. med til dine.                                                    n&Mmt-ee    rumdec.~  r  mmednw-hm  stmdmCoMslse eitsI
imu.rm   Ws  harm (yo-)t - Carsi - Aemi- tet  are, el m-si mU-                        prme  mMemaytei  iim   ymosm                      ofctietow   i. ad.m
yar p.Mpmtats    a- tISO-a.  n10-ri.- me 1070-li.                                          mpcmdias imeml.
PomUlctsi Geam imf..uotrsmftt - oros  - Asal aeats MtMr ad o                             mdl itn.rstCore   Itielste Smite Lathe i. mcmi me atm) ma
popmeatl-e tsr t       *M it"h-. "d t19fOt.                         a.remae  cmstSnimmArism agd 1i yommrme sadMmr.
Cmi.Otri It  C..tiasI) - e                tin btirti  pmr titmesmy ef  Id
7mm.pejjeieoilit. 155.cmiil  idat.                                           ffft
tro. tsitlut  Ca  ibmse) -Mont% imatim pmr ciNiesS my mid-ys..                                  !Mntts.Cr S mia  vaslaimel   pe caro  e si   ail   Minte
pepimues  ml.tin  ciiliiihis                                                                   Cusnatmm.e. Imasu ern  am am sstsvse . lucrve as
temaPybusett   g al . femm   mbate  of issohtsrm   es    Ii bme is                         mIitary osftlehie.
smarRwa. epeage    portd it ote ejorloia prmmt cis-mpmelllt                          Imite femrmtmm (s.I tas-.il Mamitia) - AlU tpe at rmaonr  lot emits
fertility ou rmi m a .ly lmm-jmmr smsengs  Mlin to two. tNo, med                         Cii.mi   Wt ome-1. pmhlii per itmeist ef popiatljam mmlmdmm mm-
Int.                                                                                    Uie        --I.i roser   t omno eet dt se ft jar. a     r.glocmtrals  .1 met.
Feil   Piee      eome   te  tmss)-meetl sinmr of acromptr-. s   mo                                     o f-Lot dots for wenmt pose. mew at im  -pmrshio clIm  M"
earned aMem) ;,ft                          memtmr (t tme acisie  -  iofeimmarrthieda  t
et ttta-etmano i-ti  emeo  cit. am           .- dtt-uete    -ie  ft         im  e      -rim  s to Feer. abe reltmrmtim or It maim mm ft offset.
all antsa -no  .9  t moe Ago Btra.                                                     0omeer Ciriie   a   iet   miea  - aiMs tim  --rm
ISO  -m 16Tliltw                                                                              r1Lt   tle of dotty terlClost  -P-P--'. dousd sa M                 Permioical
TmTrP7Fsseteepm. urtisC it-7i.OAQ-teds.of pr spts                     bthiCtttindentd Pri-sity - rsowdl. semorL  -n   It is temoldieri
os-st prematta or sa  tee is-mitila.  fttL.ies metleda as  a       5to aM   ff i IL, spMye  mt minit In timmo  m net.
taw med im M. stmis  jr bole. Cdtinte  our primary smadm C.g.                          C!eem SiAm_ IAte------ arCs         e me."t    - lem"  -  aM  a.u  ad
maawese imeissi of MM.a) Slit me mthia mde n-ula mintrlemtm Ce.a.                        iiht   od mri pr            r    Lmeisie  salowmasce ft drim-Re came- Mt
meto Ia   a    an-r   matISmie).  MIrims pimiatte  of artb eawp im                        -tti. -iti..
bead me etemat oemsei prmdawr prter moascitt lIlSU6. 17015 aga 1001
P- ot mt. ane-L of sirm        maremaf of aiqtiotm  -Csmpnot  lrne                                              !!!! - ts eitY attn proems. nletccag aiMs
--leqtsiamln   jetsu iippiaim               tbo  antiy P, potimtf P.,                     TtoiM!       1irb         t1Sa       ees. 'o.omi.  t. 'Re"M in
dsp.  Moslala,i mmppile. teirt  inane predactte.W. io lee                                pparoitmsor eLI mm1s .  cltftsltee  is merl; Ce ctrie  wen mat
epcll .me; NWtmame is osetc    at mmppltme omledo amiu  feeod. adsl.                     toseprebis; 1W0. 1170 med fiPl dat..
mosentie aad is feed pVe-maete.  Ws leem  to dItmenWIte .                                Waau !Rgn;&- ppe[       L - laslae    n  so pa-teema  tao  totisilt. Iee.-
mm"tst   aen aetImtedm hr FAD hemS a ppi.Itytocel nede fw ormaneCd Foorlmto is Is-l. foemWY.  elan ccd
mt1lmItp NW hImttt somildrta maermmemuis  toempoem. hod7 amiahm,                           fietl   W pamtemtmge. m  toAtalbo..Irim CO SitO. IWO mell t dams.
ap meds-  diirinnmlse ml pepls-ee  me ettetog1 peris ter mines                           ltsa  !rfOiOt - latefr iee o  m. utat.ostm,l.  mtttre
at boemiaud 1-91: iLiS-mI. 1970 ad tISM his.. -                                            iiiiF      .i mis.o 55a.a .porseteg  ofmin  taotr lees  i to.
- Noses comenc 51 pmr empime                     iO0 mad It adt..
mmqit.etoagg lot all. anmrtam  estmtttiid hr WMt pereeme fo  Mt                           mccIhC  "Cmtern Mncta    ea-Lcsi ol.. med I  -oRm laor force ae
mtlamomeof 0 ore m   temt protet Pmt day MA 21 et-o of -ole1 .spmntdno  total.  mi  mad tmmota pmpelstteof .14 ciiag  .rectsiLee .
pule pwnatim,o mfl ali  1are mimoli ho molmlm  protmis. lime                              low. 1970. eML Illt deis. The  no bead a  tta pmtiaiils   -t-
aoemiada  -   erI-  ie   f75 groe  f tail VMetot  mea  22 areN                          roflmettel agna~  aetrtormofm tie pppmtlsmm  ,   ime  a   iRa tees.  A
of -IamL pr . see  _..o ret aM mad,prapeni hr PIato a.0                                  foe sotieato. ir  ten  -mClel mem.
ThIrd OmaldY mS ircm; IWi-ci. lOiSe  ISMus  d?at.                                       eEWamIDEtjtMmeelaii  - ktit  .1 popaisime madar is s.d 45 aS  onr to
orw emeif  rm tcM          amt I - sia     i   - irmel  -muppi of teedk
defnedin   mo-i mm  pes. ftwe  pot do07 aOUi-t. iOU amd 1977
don,.                                                                                tacme rniUmlcnc
.Omld (ea- 1-SI eemih lute (permtnaW  - Meat daMcb Per itmmoeed to                       U~~~FmelrMaIheI-imsath s  tic   - letotumi hr rcimeat S
Mm areep i-once.. go          Moienf ci  ago a": tin  -ao  dawelpicopre.  tia   0Pci     re   0pn-   a  P-e--o £0 pmeeoie C
is-itt.. dams drnml n- 1ff. tattem: iwo. ach0 me lii imla.                               t-eidmb.
jW;pese a    mt t3Wim-  erm  mf06r of yere of Life riaftet                    ?blleigei2                 w   r   proit   nrs  fpmrplrt,m
at  ier.;tim, is   e llt  af.                                                     miect to ftmeep-redt Ith aoesedetetta eestate,
tolom Itriitirkim(mr    aaeced) -  amsl -i  at  OC lmtaota act am                        ImmeljtwiL  _sc&     eet     %l.s (in a.my Im    cee ad re1 
yar t a.pot atmais   - titom  iwo, 1070 Nme I"I isto.hem                                      erli         leli  tn  tes-tom  hofetscith m NtS.
Ses  ftoete.  fame  cicotito -tta,S                      5emc -                         artte-tcri   Saasth   pie  --eia  am-fecd reilemr                  Mes
at-mopl Celdm  tectd  -erot-mme           o -erdinm  tot                         isli-td bitinPmet ba itl  ii e sta --.                    cfl  med -rurl
m s.tmm. 1teis mist ft5 th  at In-m proeedet  horohotom. oprtai,m mm oal- r Clee  pseott  i                                Mm letisee-r      ---asia  pet Caprto
eItme7 NiUC) M pmtsmcaee elfi tal pm.tee pmpmsiiemm. is me                               Pornist imee- of no tn-tr,y.  tics ied to dartd fn  no. ewal
mete. see  a ptbisleash mle Wut-spi  iComimd met ma  itmo 20 "-er                        I--&! tilth ed3,.e  lot b1tct-  -Ct ma tietag lto ob  c
tees..  to imra sre Mn-mteet!. mute meld iammply t        ccot ib i thamtl or?drna -  ne   lpplte   trb   Srrf        e 
am Ceatoa txmc.ti camet-blm ccme mpmi  im  topreperileeto   mt ofM                                =    13WM
Monmei -. lae    lpm!.(%i hm,m                aldor,1h   i
flh_el a       wo-ouitg  mlt.. ea npoette peap.elerism.bermewur dimpem
Moy toils  no Cs1letite   me diepea. eith or tibhia  trnlsta, of                                                            lumefic med 1..l  m"  iRtotal
tee- sremis sad mal-ntr hi ntmear-teen          to aneor  Ma me of pit                                                les.Mtrt                _ tj-erim   hpmen-oto
Prieta  -tS Saler imeallettis.                                                                                                          le  am



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 27 -
Population       21.6 million (mid-1982)                                                                                     PAge4 I
CWO  per Capita:  US$ 820 (1982)                                                                                              ae 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECOWIC INDICATORS
Asount                                                               f_
(million US$ at                                    Annual Crovth Rates (1)
current price.)                      ACCual                                           Projected
Indicator                      1981                 1978   1979   1980   1951 c    198: e/               1983   1984   1985   1986
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Cross domestic product 5/   14836                  2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3        5.6                 -0.8    0.9    2.1    3.0
Agriculture                3099                18.0   -1.7    6.2  -22.9       19.0                 -3.0    4.0    2.0    2.0
Industry                   5315               -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.1        -0.5                 -2.7   -1.1    2.5    3.0
Services                   6608                4.0    5.1    6.4    6.0         6.0                  2.5    1.5    2.0    3.3
Consumption                  13877                 4.2    5.8    2.5    1.7        4.5                 -1.4   -0.1    2.2    1.4
Cross investment              3187               -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -1.9       10.9                -16.9  -14.6  -12.7    7.3
Exports of GNFS               3082                 3.3    0.9    3.7    0.1        3.8                  4.1   10.1    6.9    5.7
Imports of GcrS               5310              -17.4    3.3   -9.8    8.3         5.5                -10.8   -5.9   -2.3    2.3
Gross national savings        1325               -15.4    3.2    6.0  -19.3       -3.8                  5.2   -7.2   -6.8   15.6
PRICES5
CDP deflator (1969 - 100)        .               186.5  200.2  218.6  242.0      264.3
Exchange rate (US$ per DU)       .                .240   .256   .254   .193       .166
Share of CDP at Market Prices (Z)                          Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)dl                     (at constant 1969 price)   (at constant 1980 Vrices)
l960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990              1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Cross domestic product                                                          4.0       4.6        5.1       1.4        3.8
Agriculture b          29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   16.0  14.8                3.5      -2.1        3.8       0.7        2.2
Industry bY           23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3  29.7  29.6                  4.7       7.1       4.2       -0.7       3.7
services b/           47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   48.8  50.1                 4.1       5.5        5.9       3.5       4.4
Consuption                89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   89.5  85.0                4.1       4.8        5.8       1.2        2.7
Cross investment          10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   13.7  15.6                8.0       9.3       -2.8      -7.9        7.0
Exports CNFS              27.4   17.6  22.5   18.4   23.2  25.3                 1.3       2.1        4.9       6.3        5.6
Imports ONFS              26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   26.4  26.1                3.5       8.1        0.5      -1.9       3.7
Crosn national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   11.9  15.2                 3.5       15.3      -4.4      -2.5       10.7
As Z of GDP
1960      1970      1975       1980      1982
PUBL1C FIRANCE
Current revenues                                16.5      16.1      23.3       21.6      23.1
Current expenditures                            15.6      14.5      20.2       21.8      23.0
Surplus C.) or deficit (-)                       0.9       1.6       3.1       -0.2       0.0
Capital expenditure                              3.8       5.7       12.2      12.4      14.1
Foreign fimancing                                          1.3       3.7        5.6       7.0
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OIlER INDICATORS
CNP growth race (2)                    4.0        6.0       5.2        1.1       3.7
GOP per capita grovth rate (2)         1.6        3.1       1.8      -1.7        0.9
Energy consumption grovth rate (Z)    3.8         6.7       5.6        1.6       3.7
ICOR                                   3.09       3.0       4.1      15.6        3.9
Karginal saving  rate                  0.10       0.38     -0.15     -0.36       0.31
Import elasticity_!/                   0.95       1.84      0.13     -0.17       1.02
af At market prices.
bI  Share of CDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
cI Goods only.
7/ Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
eI Partially estimated.
l 1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-86 at 1980 prices.
November 4. 1983
EMZNA CP II-B
ID 01808 p.1



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 28 -
Population     : 21.6 million (mid-1982)                                                             ANNEX I
CNp Per Capita; Us, 820 (1982)                                                                        Pagof 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator              (milLion U66 at                            Annual Growth Rateem  Z) 1/
current prices)                Actual                                            Wro  cted
L981            1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982             l9H    1941195    1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)        2283             10.7    5.3    L.8    5.1    0.0   -1.5              7.5   11.5    7.7    5.9
Primry products               1626              7.7    5.4    0.0    5.8   -7.0  -11.7             2.3    7.0    3.0    2.9
Phosphate rock              740              9.6    9.6    3.2   -7.4   -5.4  -10.5             0.2    3.0    3.0    3.0
Others                      836              6.5    2.8   -1.7   14.7   -7.9  -12.4             3.8    9.8    2.9    2.9
Intermediate A manufactures   657              23.8    5.0    7.1    2.8   22.5   26.5            15.4   17.4   13.4    9.2
Merchandive imports (CIF)        4363             14.4  -19.9    6.6   -7.1   11.2    6.4             -8.4   -5.8   -2.1    3.3
Food                           892              0.4    8.6    2.2    3.4   38.6  -22.5            -2.8   -0.8   -5.0    3.0
Petroleum                     1184              5.7   11.0   12.1  -11.9    9.8   -3.2            -9.3   -1.5    2.5    2.7
machinery mad equipment        746             26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.6    7.4   53.7           -25.2  -20.0  -12.0    6.1
Others                        1541             13.0  -15.1   12.5   -5.2    0.8   11.6             1.4   -2.6    0.8    2.8
PRICES (1980 - 100)
Export price index z                              68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0  124.1  131.2            139.2  160.9  183.3  199.6
import price index               .                67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0  120.3  125.4            147.1  177.5  197.3  212.1
Terms of trade index             .               100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0  103.2  102.2            94.6   90.6   92.9   94.1
Composition of Marchandise Trade (Z)                     Average Annual Incressc  (X)
(at current prices)                    (Constant 1969 prices)   (Constant 1980 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990       1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                       2.0      -1.2       6.6        6.9       5.7
Primary products         89.5    89.4   86.9   74.4   55.2   48.8          ..     -2.7        5.3      -0.1        3.2
Intermediate* & manu-   10.5    10.6   12.9   25.6   44.8   51.2           ..      8.1       12.1      20.3        8.3
factures
importr                                                                       4.0       9.1       0.7       -0.2       3.7
Food                     27.3    16.9   25.0   16.9   13.9   15.6          ..      14.0       3.0      -2.3        3.0
Petroleum                 7.4     5.5   10.8   23.6   24.6   22.1          ..       9.6       5.3      -1.4        3.0
Machinery end equipment  6.7    24.1   24.0   18.9   14.4   17.2           ..      12.8      -7.0       -3.4       6.2
Otners                   58.6    53.5   40.2   40.6   47.1   44.5          ..       5.5       2.9        2.8       3.7
Share of Trade with             Share of Trade witb             Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)        Develoving Countries (Z)    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters CZ)
1960      1970       1980       1s60       1970      1980      1960          1970            1980
DIrECTION OF TRADE
Exports                       72.3       73.7      76.5        27.7      25.4       21.6       ..            0.9             1.9
Imports                       76.7      74.9       72.9       23.3       25.1       8.3        ..             ..           18.8
I/ 1975-1982 at 1969 prices, 1983-1986 at 1980 prices                                             November 4. 1982
EHNEA CP II-B
ID 01803 p.2



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-29-
PepIlItleS       2 1.b eilliee  (.14-1682)                                                                                    ||g 
GW  erf Capiet UU6 520 (1982)                                                                                                 nU6 ot 6
093000  -  0      O  PU1          121tS    IhIL CAPITAL AID DES
mUll.. Use at current prIce.)
[Indicator                                                 Actual                                      t___________d____
19Th     1977      1973     1979     19U0      191   1982d-_        193  PrNii    1985    1990
IMANIAI   OP PAVMS'                                                             
ExPort ot Soeed. and aervice             22U8      2486     2955      3694     4364      4132   3843          3769    4179    4837    8721
Of which% lnrchaudlas f.o.b.           1245     1283      1.08     1938     2414      2283   2043          2026    2318    2794    5496
Importc of gueds sad *ervicec            3691      4364     4353      5266     3911      6095   5912          5207    516b    S677    9519
Of which: Nmrchudisa teo.b_m/         2305      2820     2623      3245     3770      3340   3815          3900    3933    4214    7270
Mt current transfers                       47        52       50        44      126       102    170             -       -        -       -
Current account boloew                  -1355    -1326    -1343    -1530    -1420    -1U61  -1899            -1438    -990    -80      -798
Special Fant.                             435       360      260       420      314       313    204           427     224      203      66
Curret account balance aftef grant.   -920    -1486    -103         -1110    -1106    -1563  -1695          -1011    -766    -637    -us
Private capital                             38       53       45        37       88        68    124            "5      95      106     171
NUT loaw  (net)                           623      1670      387      1017      993      1104   1401           a58     620      743     890
Official                               139       680      335       341      716      1034    647           290     522      339     259
Pwivate                                49        990      502       676      277        70    754           568      98     404      630
Other capital                             238      -263      148         3     -222       113    227
lmetry  Lncd!/                              16        6        8        53      247       258    397            68      51    -212    -329
ltemnational reserves                    548       609      772       917      314       508    435           237     230     237      635
Of which: Cold                          32       106      154       360      415       278    217           217     217     217      217
searv., an *month. k  eportm               1.3      1.7      2.1       2.1      1.7       1.0    0.9           0.5     0.5     0.5      0.8
ghn=UL CAPITL AM  D35T
Grec diaursdxnncA                         725      1787     1182      1405     1567      1734   2180
Cenceosimal lo                          111      636      325       293      750       894    511
0*C                                  63       109       91        76       96       131     33
OPEC                                 41       507      U89       168      534       746    401
ID                                    4         3        -         -        1         1      1
other                                 3        16       45        49       69        16     21
--omcocmcmimmal loena                  614      1151      859      1113      318       839   1669
official export credits              22        27        2         2       12       54      57
1r3D                                 59        6B       72       137       64       99    134
Other eultilateral                    2         6       53         7       13       116     67
private                             531      1050      732       967      729      570   1411
Suppliars credits                 10      171        10        3        16       36    100
FinaeciaL credits and beadf      521      879       722      957       713      534   1311
Exter_al Debt
Dabt outatemiia  ad disburmd          2330      4069     523       6132     7097     7963   9043
official                           1250      1975     246      2833      3482     4346   4911
Private                            1030      209      2667      3349     3615     3617   4132
Vndimburme debt                        801      1024     2230      2337     2058     3129   3056
D"t  Trvice
Total service p_amntc                   162      264      547       798     1191      1236   1394
Intret                               66       1"       252      *10       613      655    615
Paymat an Z exprt. of Cos a/           7.2      10.7     18.7      21.3     27.3     31.1   36.3
Average inteRt rate en te  1ea1e (Z)         7.7      6.3       7.0      8.2      8.1      10.5   10.5
Average .aturity of mm loana Cyer.)          11.7     13.1      13.2     15.9      13.7      7.0    7.0
Am Z of Debt ottatading at End of met Recnt Yeer (1982)
Navarity atructur  of debt outetanding
Naturitiem  due witbin 5 pera                                         56.2
Haturities due within 10 yerm                                        B3.B
Interest Ecructure of debt outet_diui
Intereat due within first yer                                          5.9
c.i.f. far projected year.
b/ Iclu       De1   cradits.
e/ excluding debt servic  een VW  loom.
I/ Partially *atieted.                                                                                                         Nebr 10. 1983
EM   CP 1T-3
ID 0180D P 3



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 30 -
ANNEX It
A. STATINWT OFP BANK LOANS AND IDA CUDITI
fAs of October 31 1983)
Loan or                                                                       IUB Million
Credit                                                              Amount   (less cancelLatioUU)
Nuober        Year       Borrower               PurposE             Bunk      IDA     Undisbursed
Twenty-nine Loans fully disbursed                                   802.8
Four Credits fuLly disbursed                                                   36.3
555           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                     14.0         9.8
1220-T        1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education             25.0                   BA
1416          1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           41.0                  25.2
S-7          1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Enginearing            1.5                   0.1
1528          1971       Kingdom of Morocco    Urben Developmnt   18.0                     12.6
1602          1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           65.0                  54.9
lo81          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education            113.0                  95.5
1687          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)             20.5                   5.9
1695          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Paver                42.0                   31.5
1724          1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply         49.6                   19.6
1757          1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           58.0                 43.4
5-18          1980       BRPM                   Oil Exploration      50.0                   2.8
183U          1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway              62.0                   28.3
1848          1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          34.0                  29.5
1943          1981       CIN                    Tourim              100.0                  51.9
1944          1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                    34.3
2006          1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply          87.0                  80.2
2037          1982       3MN                    DFC                  70.0                  65.6
2038          1982       Kingdoom of Morocco    DFC (551)            70.0                  69.9
2082          1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           29.0                  28.5
2109          1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                 9.5                   9.4
2110          1982       Kingdom of Moreco      Forestry             27.5                  26.3
2114          1982       OaRREP                 Oil Shale            20.0                  18.8
2149          1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Education V           50.0                  48.2
2217 b/       1983       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           30.0                  30.0
2245          1983       Kingdom of Morocco    Rousing Dev.          60.0                  59.6
2253 b/       1983       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           42.0                  42.0
2254 U/       1983       Kingdom of Morocco    Transportation        85.0                  85.0
2271 -        1983       ONAREP                 Petroleum Emp.       75.2                  72.4
2272 b/       1983       Kingdom of Morocco    Infrastructure        16.0                  16.0
Total                                                        2239.8       50.8
of which has been repaid                                    284.7        1.6
Total now outstanding                                        1T955.1      49.2
Amont Sold                                20.1
of which bas been repaid                19.5                  0.6
Total now heLd by lank and IDA                               1954.5       49.2
Total undiebureed                                             1095.8       9.8     1105.6
NOTE
/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a *eparate report on all
ank/IDA financial projects in operation, which is updated tvice yearly and circuleted to
the Executive Directors on April 30 end October 31.
bj/ nt yet effective.
S.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US0  million
Fiscal Your                                                             Loan     Equicy   Total
1963/1978/1984     UNDE                         Development lank          37.8    2.7      40.5
1966               CIL                          Canning Factory          0.9      0.5       1.4
1976               Msrrakcb Cemet               Cement Factory            -       1.3       1.3
1977/L980          Temara Cement               Cement Faccory.           4.7      3.6       8.3
i979               Agadir Cement *              Cemt Factory            12.5      2.2      14.7
1980               SODIFER                      Copper Mining           13.0      2.3      15.3
1981/1983          Cacableaca Cemet             Cment Factory           15.8      2.0      17.8
Total Grossc Cofitente                                              84.7     14.6      99.3
Less cacellation, terminations, repayment and sales          36.7       3.5     40.2
Totel comitmnts no  held by Xi                                      48.0     11.1      59.1
Total Undisbureed                                                   21.6      0.3      21.9
* Agaddir Cemnt has been cancelled.
ID.04791



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDUI OF MOROCCO
FIFTR AGRICUWLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
r
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Borrower to               12 months (October 1981 to
prepare Project:                           October 1982).
(b)  Agencies responsible for Project           Caisse Nationale de Crddit
preparation:                               Agricole.
(c)  Project identified:                        September 1981.
(d)  Date of Appraisal Mission:                 March 1983.
(e)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:        October 18, 1983
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             March 31, 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
a.       Signing of the ADB and the first KfW loan agreements, and application
for the AEFSD and second KfW loan (para. 65).
Condition of Disbursement
b.       Bank's prior approval of subloans for agroindustrial investments
estimated to cost DH 5.0 million or more and the first two subloans
in each field (para. 62).
Other Conditions
c.       In order to implement its main objectives;
(1) CNCA would. (a) submit a detailed program for the development of its
banking activities by March 31, 1985 and undertake to maintain
competitive interest rates on deposits (para. 56); (b) submit a



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
detailed plan for the introduction of a new management system and
establish a management control unit by December 31, 1984 (para. 58);
(c) maintain salaries and benefits at competitive levels, and submit
a detailed proposal for a draft training program by December 31, 1984          d
(para. 59); (d) introduce a new monitoring and evaluation system by
Harch 31, 1985 (para 60).
(2)  In order to maintain its financial viability, CNCA would annually
revibw its interest rates; ensure that medium- and tong-term debt
does not exceed six times its equity; and maintain a ratio of current
assests to current liabilities of not less than 120 percent. Also
CNCA would not lend more than 20 percent of its equity to one single
borrower without adequate guarantees (para. 61).
(3) CNCA would increase its efforts to lend to small- and medium-scale
agroindustries for economically justifiable projects (para 62).
(4) CNCA would, by December 31, 1985, evaluate the impact of the lending
norms introduced under the Fez-Karia-Tissa Agricultural Project, and
determine to what extent these norms can be introduced throughout
Morocco (para. 46).
.1



MOROCCO/MAROC                                                                                                              r
FIFTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CINCo/ltME PROaEr oE CAtIrAGRICO1E
NATIONAL CADASTRE
CADASrRF NATrIONAL
.~NCA ~JfJiLar
CADIA E'                             FCONoMIC       flUeNTIAL        EF@FCTIvF
!        Lomplot!d                           k.IONS          CLitNTS         CLltN1i
Acohv &I rconserve                   Nord-Ouiel    700,300           53,000
In progrSub                          (onlre -Nord    191.400        41,t100                              tt     i
En cowts d'.rxkvution                Conlro.Ouvat  27vR. ODO        116.800
Pfolecited                           C!Ptrirs, Sud    91.200         35/,000
En proiet                            Orirnial         30000          16.800
T n~li?r            143.60(J   74,700                               A n2         -
_   Provincial boundaries                Tnil            143.6500       12,200
£IrrrV atij prostnces                    d             134,  m0r12,2i
Economic fegion boundoriev                                                                         SAl.
Is n,deb We to regon dconomique                                                                 RABA.
Main roads
Routesrfacri,ales
Secondary roads                                                              Casablanc m      ',-                        ;
Raii.s .wecondaires
Tracks
Plites
Rivors                                                            Sd
Noli nol capital
Capital0 d'etat
13             ~~~~~Provincial capitols
0 Chef. /,ewu des provinces                       ~-
International boundories                            SOF
Frontiorw5 dta;to
---iniernotional boundary (approx imoue)
-- -I- ndicotes fhe territory of the former/                                    'dSrhn
Spanish Soahoo tWeuI'?rn Sohafa)
indiq7ue Ia territowir de Pancie
Sahara Espaisnol (Sahara Occidentali  laua                         hco
KILOMETERS D 0                IC        150
MILES 0               0              10O
-  olmne      I
TodaO.f-  
Tro bi AI                  -gF                                                                                      l:
*,.  er -. i                                                                                   K        i



IBRD 17221
r~~~~~~~~~Lr
I Una 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~LNItS
|@b   '                            Med,tedran.on              Ssa                        //
on
Lw.                                            /                  2\  aj i '; j 
AP:IP0,0Cor                                                                              OCE AN
K.houfX   ~~~~ >   i>¢-  5        ?--~- w -0-  M-  Im~  I
. Aa2~~  bBouImoh9 K"fah,M
Ervock,d,o                                                           11. Vf" R EAOPc h
-Si        Mrro.f!              /r                                                             I   O I'AN I
dwomembom ~  ~      ~       y~Rbo
----------
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. 19 c6l-   or /                       II.o.d3
ft-, ,wp 40 ~o M-                                       A ,  *,
.,  of th ,   .d =  4* thP
ame POVf Mh.   P.W& Renk aoh iP
J, uo...IeoIW.                                                 N
M A Ll IA N I-A
MAI_ Nd
,,t r^,".,ps,¢p,.-., ............ s>, I MOROe s O f~~~~~~~~~~_J,



;Is '-                                                               i                -        -        g I
MOROCCO/MAROC
FIFTH AGRICULTURA   CREDIT PROJECT
CItNGUMEJe APoitJ DC CRFITAG#RCE -
BRANCH NETWORK OF THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK
RSAL  E &F  A CA/f ENATIONAi!f CROf&Ir ACR/OLE,
*   Headqurter                                                                                  U. ii
*   CLCAt3 (91JA a
A    CRCA                                                                                      f      -      -
o    CLCA                                                          
"oah  In mflme_mn
Averap anel rainfall*
AMq,~re ame w/ bp*g*Mftbm,
600+
r   600 -aWOoClbS
4004600
200' 400                                                                                     F
o0*200                                                                                           i
Internotional boundari                                                                                    ci    f
32 _                                                                           El 'e*.&
-i_ Indiates 1  Imrritorr oF the former                               dn S o- m
Spanish Sokara (Wester )                             w.e.ih.&...%         A     . 
AP quwerpMn#ke de /bwrhv,
KILO,ETRS D       so    il
/Fin                        ,/                        K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALoEreS o  23  3a
'I^__       /                             -"'~               ALGERIA          MII.ESO     25      SO
y ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;                i



Co        V
0 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
& I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
I~~~~~~~~r1t Jf "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~~4
Li      B
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l






