RESTRICTED
FILE     COPYVRE                 RIC 
[LE    COPYl X            Report No. P-650
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
November 12, 1968



INTERINATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AID DEVELOPENT
REPORT AND RECONIEDhTION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEIALA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$6.3 million to
the Republic of Guatemala.
PART I - IIISTORICAL
2.        The proposed project, which is the first education project to
be financed by the Bank in Guatemala, was identified by a UNESCO mission
in 1965.  Subsequent UNESCO missions assisted the Guatemalan authorities
in preparing the project, and it was appraised in January-February 1968.
3.        Negotiations took place in WJashington during September 17-20,
1968. The Guatemalan Government was represented by Messrs. Edwlin Alcantara,
Finance Ministry; Rafael Perez I'iera, Vice-Minister of Coil!unications and
Public i'orks; Arturo Lemus, Yinistry of Education; and Edgardo Castaneda.,
Project Director designate.
4.        The proposed loan, the fourth made to Guatemala, would increase
the Bank's total lending to Guatemala to US$46.5 million (net of can-
cellations).  IDA has not made any credits to Guatemala.   The following
is a summary statement of Bank loans to Guatemala as of September 30, 1968:
US$ Millions
Loan
Number   Year     Borrower                Purpose     Amount  Undisbursed
124     1955   Republic of Guatemala      Roads       18.2 9
487     1967   INDE                       Power       15.0       11.3
545(1)  1968   INDE                       Power        7.0        7.0
Total (less cancellations)                    40.2
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                                   14.4
Total now outstanding                         25.8
Amount sold                  2.8
of which has been repaid   2.1                0.7
Total now held by Bank                        25.1
Total undisbursed                                         18.3
(1) Not yet effective.



5.        IFC made one investment of US$200,000 in a flour mill in
Guatemala; it sold $134,000 and wa.s repaid the balance.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TIE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:             Republic of Guatemala.
Amount:                The equivalent in various currencies of
US$6.3 million.
Purpose:              To assist in financing the construction
and equipment of a secondary teacher
training school, fifteen new general
secondary schools and the expansion and
improvement of the Technical Institute
of Agriculture.
Amortization:          In 25 years, including a 10 year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning April 1, 1979 and ending
October 1, 1994.
Interest Rate:        6-1/2 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:    3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROMECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled "An Education Project in Guatemala"
(TO-681a) is attached.
8.        Education is given high priority by the Guatemalan Government.
The country has ample natural resources, but lacks the qualified manpower
to put its resources to productive use. Over 60 percent of the popula-
tion a.ge 7 and above is illiterate. Only 8.9 percent of the labor force
has had primary education; 1.9 percent high school educations and 0.7 per-
cent higher education.
9.        Primary education suffers from high drop-out rates (72 percent
in urban and 98 percent in rural areas for the 1960 cohort); inadequately
qualified tea.chers; uneven student-teacher ratios, ranging from 1 to 100
students per teacher; unequal education opportunities as between urban
and rural schools (74 percent of urban school age population attend, only
23 percent of rural) and inadequate schools. Secondary school curricula
do not correspond to employment opportunities, and there is a lack of
laboratories, workshops and textbooks.  While the Government is preparing
a new national development plan, the Education Planning Office has estab-
lished the main outlines and much of the content of a three-year education



plan covering 1969-71, which *ould improve education, both primary and
secondary. The proposed project is the first step in the implementation
of the plan for secondary education.
10.       The proposed project consists of the construction and equip-
ment of (i) a new secondary teacher training school; (ii) additions to
the existing Technical Institute of Agriculture; and (iii) 15 new general
secondary schools.  The secondary teacher training school would provide
700 new places and contribute about 85 percent of the new and 50 percent
of the retrained personnel required to have a, fully qualified secondary
teacher force by 1980.   The new secondary schools would provide for
13,400 student places and revised curricula which wJould reflect the
demand for skills of different kinds.   The expansion of the Technical
Institute of Agriculture would raise its places to 600, triple the
present output at the skilled worker level and graduate annually 80 at
the technician level.
11.       The execution of the project would be entrusted to a special
project unit within the Hinistry of Public Wriorks. The director of this
unit w7oUld be assisted by an advisory committee of representatives of the
Ministries of Education, Finance, Publicl forks and Agriculture and the
University of San Carlos.
12.       Capital cost per student place is about US$933 for the teacher
training school, $540 for secondary schools providing only three years of
general training and $645 for secondary schools providing three years of
general education and two additional years of specialized training.
These costs are reasonable. Annual recurrent costs are estimated at
US$3.4 million equivalent. With the measures recently taken to increase
revenues (see paragraph 22 below), the Guatemalan Government will be
able to finance its part of the capital cost of the project and cover
the recurrent costs.
13.       Total project costs are estimated at US$12.6 million equivalent,
including some land sites that have to be acquired by the Government.
Total estimated foreign exchange cost would be US$3.6 million equivalent,
which represents 28.5 percent of total estimated project cost. The
project is part of a comprehensive education program, which includes
primary and higher education, and which calls for a total investment of
about $41 million over the next three years. Even allowing for lending
for education by IDB and AID, which should provide over the three years
some $18 million, there remains a major financial effort required of the
Government. Taking into account the key role of the project in the over-
all program and the dependence of Guatemala on an inflow of capital to
sustain a tolerable level of public investment, some local financing seems
to be in order. A loan of $6.3 million, covering 50 percent of total
project cost, thus appears fully justified.
14.       Procurement of goods and services will be on the basis of
international competitive bidding both for building construction and



purchases of equipment. It is likely that building construction con-
tracts will go to local contractors, that furniture will be bought
locally and that instructional equipment will be imported.  Architectural
and other services may be provided partly from abroad, partly locally.
The loan would be disbursed to cover the full amount of foreign expendi-
ture and a proportion of the local expenditure, depending on the exact
distribution of expenditure between foreign and local, so as to cover
50 percent of total project cost.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIEaNTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
16.       The loan documents contain the usual covenants for education
projects.
PART V - THE ECONO0L
17.       The last Bank Economic Report on Guatemala entitled "Current
Economic Position and Prospects of Guatemala" (WH-178b, iiay 6, 1968),
was distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1968. It observed
that the growth of Guatemala's economy in the last several years has not
been very impressive. During 1960-67 an average annual growth rate in
GDP of about 4.3 percent per annum combined with a population expansion
of over 3 percent to keep per capita income growth at only slightly above
1 percent per annum. The increase in GDP in 1965-67 barely kept pace
with population. The economy remains heavily dependent on agriculture,
which accounts for close to 30 percent of GDP and provides the bulk of
exports to the world markets. Coffee and cotton alone accounted in 1967
for 43 percent of Guatemala's total exports. Manufacturing, although
growing at an average 7 percent per annum since 1960, still accounts for
only about 15 percent of GDP and caters only to the domestic market and
to the markets of the other Central American countries.
18.       The Guatemalan Government is aware of the urgent need to
accelerate economic growth and distribute its benefits more evenly among
the population, thus gradually reducing the present sharp differences in
education, health and income. To this effect, the Government, while
continuing to follow a prudent monetary policy, intends to accelerate
measures to diversify the economy and reduce its sensitivity to fluctu-
ations in the world markets for coffee and cotton. The Government
recognizes that this implies a greater effort in agrarian reform and
agricultural diversification, in the reorientation of manufacturing
towards world markets and in the expansion of public investment. W4hile
emergency tax measures may provide the needed increase in public savings



- 5 -
in the short run, there is growing awareness in Guatemala that in the
long term a satisfactory level of public savings can be achieved only
by reforms that will both increase taxes and spread their impact more
equitably.
19.       This awareness is in direct response to the recent deterioration
in the Guatemalan economic and financial situation. As for the external
finances, in contrast to the 1960-65 period, during which small trade
deficits were more than offset by net capital inflowis so that international
reserves increased slightly, the balance of payments deteriorated in
1966-67. The deterioration took place in spite of Guatemala's improving
trade posi.tion with the rest of the Central American Common Market and
was due to a sharp drop in capital inflows caused by political un-
certainty, to large increases in imports from countries outside the
Common Market, to increases in remittances abroad, and to a fall in
exports because of weakening coffee and cotton prices and of production
problems in cotton.
20.       As for the domestic finances, government finances have fluctu-
ated in step with the economy in general. Revenues declined in the early
years of this decade, a period of general economic stagnation. they
increased substantially in 1964 and 1965 - following two years of record
growth of the economy, sharp expansion of foreign trade and the introduc-
tion of new taxes - but failed to increase as expected in 1966 and 1967.
Current expenditures continued to rise, however, so that public savings
net of amortization became negative in 1967. Public investments have
also fluctuated in step with these overall developments.
21.       Estimates for 1968 indicate that economic growth has continued
to be modest (around 4 percent), and that public investment has again
failed to increase as planned.   However, it appears that the balance of
payments deterioration and the declining trend in public savings of the
past twTo years have been arrested.  The Government has also succeeded in
reducing short-term borrowing abroad and negotiating substantial amounts
of long-term development loans to help speed up agricultural and indus-
trial diversification, and thereby create the potential for improved
export growth in the years ahead.
22.       The most urgent problem in Guatemala is to establish the basis
for a more sustained development than has been possible in the last few
years. Important steps have recently been taken. Guatemala's ability
to carry out its development plans for the next two years, including the
education project described in this report, has been improved by revenue
measures recently adopted, or at present under active consideration by
Congress, and by the Government's declared intention to keep a strict
check on non-development expenditures and improve prepara.tion and
administration of projects. The most important new measure, an import
surcharge which is expected to yield at least US$8 million yearly, has
already been approved. Together with various other tax measures, govern-



- 6 -
ment revenues should increase by US$16 million (i.e., 12 percent above
present levels) in 1969. As a result, savings should be sufficient to
cover about 35 percent of public investment in 1969-70, with net capital
inflows from abroad accounting for the remaining 65 percent.
23.       With the domestic policies now in prospect, Guatemala, with an
external debt ratio of 8 percent, is creditworthy for new external
borrowing on conventional terms.   Given the expected recovery in export
earnings, the additional long-term borrowing abroad now envisaged should
not raise the debt service ratio beyond the 8-9 percent level in the
1970's.
PART VI - COiMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMI.EKDATIONS
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Guatemala in an
amount equivalent to US$6,300,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Guatemala,
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million, three hundred
thousand United States dollars (US$6,300,000), to mature on and prior to
October 1, 1994, to bear interest at the rate of six and one-half percent
(6-1/2%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall
be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
the form of Loan Agreement (Education Project) between the Bank and the
Republic of Guatemala which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by S. R. Cope
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 12, 1968



