CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 259 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tea Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 259 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Tea Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1971, between REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NAIIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to De-
velopment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the dele-
tion of Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) thereof and to the
renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being here-
inafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings there-
in set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "PNP XII" and "PNP XIII" mean, the state-
owned estate enterprises (Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan)
on Java, established and so designated by Government
Regulation No. 14 of 1968, and any successor thereto by
or after conversion of such enterprise into a Perseroan
Terbatas pursuant to Law No. 9 of 1969 of the Borrower,
and "PNP" means both PNP XII and PNP XIII.
(b) "Tea Research Center" means the center referred
to in Part A(1) of the Project, or any successor thereto.


﻿4
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agree-
ments referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) "Project Estate" means any of the estates specified
in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(e) "Consultancy Organization" means the consultancy
organization referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from such territories.
SECTION 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the goods and services (other than office equip-
ment and services of consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be procured on the basis of international competition under


﻿5
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and sub-
ject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment; provided, however, that advertisements of invitations
to bid on civil -works contracts for housing required for
the Project may be limited to newspapers of general circu-
lation in the Borrower's country.
(b) The office equipment to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be procured from local dealers
after competitive quotations for such equipment have been
obtained and compared. ,
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (34 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15,
1981 and ending February 15, 2021, each installment to
and including the installment payable on February 15, 1991
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (112%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A
of the Project and shall cause PNP XII and INP XIII to
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds,of the Credit
allocated to Part B of the Project to PNP XII and PNP
XIII, respectively, under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and PNP XII and
PNP XIII, respectively, on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to pro-
tect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
SECTION 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in
carrying out Part A(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ two tea research specialists acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
tea industries survey included in the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower undertakes to carry out the tea re-
search included in the Project through the Tea Research


﻿7
Center and shall cause separate accounts to be established
and maintained for that Center.
(d) The Borrower shall cause its Minister of Agricul-
ture to establish and maintain separate accounts for the
tea industries survey included in the Project.
SECTION 3.03. (a) By June 1972 the Borrower shall have
prepared for each PNP a detailed five-year !development
program satisfactory to the Association and thereafter the
Borrower shall cause Part B of the Project to be carried
out in accordance with such development programs as
amended from time to time with the concurrence of the
Association.
(b) In order to assist PNP XII and PNP XIII in pre-
paring the development programs referred to in the pre-
ceding paragraph and in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause PNP XII and PNP XIII,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, to engage
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association one
and the same consultancy organization, qualified and ex-
perienced in the management and operation of tea estates
and acceptable to the Association, to strengthen the man-
agement and improve the operations of said PNP's by
providing: (i) an estate and factory inbpection service dur-
ing at least five years, (ii) two advisors to assist in tea
husbandry, and in organization and accounting, respec-
tively, during at least two years and (iii) one advisor to
assist both PNP's in tea manufacturing during at least
two years.
SECTION 3.04. In carrying out the civil works and the
installation of factory and power equipment included in
Parts B(4), B(5) and B(6) of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause PNP XII and PNP XIII to employ contractors
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿8
SECTION 3.05. For the carrying out of Part B of the
Project the Borrower shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree:
(a) ensure that PNP XII and PNP XIII carry out the
new-planting of tea included in the Project in accordance
with programs satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) ensure that PNP XII and PNP XIII shall use only
planting material which has been approved by the Con-
sultancy Organization.
SECTION 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower,
PNP XII and PNP XIII to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the Project.
SECTION 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be fur-
nished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, new-
planting and replanting programs, and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall or shall cause PNP XII and
PNP XIII, respectively: (i) to maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the part of the Project for which
it shall be responsible (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in such part


﻿9
of the Project; (ii) to enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) to furnish to the Association all such in-
formation as the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning such part of the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that until the Closing Date the
PN' 's shall: (i) establish and maintain separate annual
budgets covering all estimated funds available for and ex-
penditures under the Project, shall furnish the Associa-
tion with copies of said budgets including any material
changes therein, accompanied by the comments thereon of
the Consultancy Organization, and shall afford the Associa-
tion a reasonable opportunity to comment on said budgets
and changes before they shall become effective; (ii) estab-
lish and maintain separate accounts covering tea and cin-
chona grown on the Project Estates only, and shall allocate
all funds generated by the sale of tea and cinchona grown
on the Project Estates exclusively to expenditures on ac-
count of such crops, including the expenditures under the
Project; and (iii) furnish the Association prompt.,7 after
each calendar quarter with summaries of their re  c ive
accounts and financial statements (including the accounts
referred to under (c) (ii) above) for such quarter.
(d) The Borrower shall within three months after con-
version of either PNP into a company limited by shares
(Perseroan Terbatas) furnish the Association with certi-
fied copies of the opening balance sheet of such company
audited by the State Accounting Service of the Borrower
and.a signed copy of the report of such audit.
SECTION 3.08. Before December 31, 1971 the Borrower
shall cause each PNP to be reincorporated as a company


﻿S
10
limited by shares (Perseroan Terbatas) under a charter
acceptable to the Association and to have duly appointed
its first Supervisory Board and Board of Executive Man-
agement in accordance with Section 4.03(b) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
,SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PNP's
to maintain records adequate to reflet in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices their
operations iand financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the PNP's to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Associa-
tion as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified                - -
copies of their financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation such other information concerning their accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the As-
sociation shall from time to time reasonably request.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PNP XII and
PNP X1II to take out and maintain with responsible in-
surers insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound practice.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PNP's
at all times to manage their affairs, maintain their finan-
cial position, plan their future expansion and carry on
their operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices and under


﻿11
the supervision of experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of mem-
bers of the Supervisory Board or the Board of Executive
Management, or the position of Chief Accountant, if any,
of PNP XII and PNP XIII, respectively, shall at all times
be filled by qualified and experienced persons and, before
an appointment is made to any such position, shall inform
the Association of the name, qualifications and experience
of the persons considered for appointment to such position
and afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and
experience of such persons.
(c) If recommended by the Consultancy Organization,
the Borrower shall cause each PNP to employ a Chief Ac-
countant to be charged with the preparation of the budgets
and accounts, and the formulation and implementation of
the financial policies, of such PNP.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall cause PNP XII and
PNP XIII each:
(a) to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all such rights -and interests in land and all such
other rights, powers, privileges and franchises as are neces-
sary or useful in the conduct of its business; and
(b) at all times to operate and maintain its installa-
tions, tea and cinchona plantings, equipment and other
property, and promptly as required make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
business,'agricultural and engineering practices.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the Tea Re-
search Center included in the Project to be operated and
maintained in accordance with sound financial and scien-
tific practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management, assisted by qualified and experi-
enced tea research staff.


﻿12
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the price
paid, quantity, grade and estate of origin of tea sold from
its estates shall be published in the issue next following
such sale of a daily commercial publication of general
circulation in its territories.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition, resources and ex-
penditures of PNP XII and PNP XIII and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; ,and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, isuch information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower, includ-
ing its balance of payments, and the external debt of the
Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any
agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations and financial condition, resources and expendi-


﻿13
tilres of PNP XII and PNP XIII and, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit Agreement or the
performance by PNP XII or PNP XIII of their obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Asso-
ciation to inspect all estates, plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of PNP XII
and PNP XIII and any relevant records and documents
and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.
SECTIoN 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
,SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restric-
tions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature


﻿14
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement
shall occur -and shall continue for the period, if any, there-
in set forth, then at any subsequent time during the con-
tinuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by
notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately to-
gether with the service charges thereon and upon any
such declaration such principal and service charges shall
become due ,and payable immediately, anything to the con-
trary in the Development Credit Agreement notwith-
standing.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) PNP XII or PNP XIII shall have been unable to pay
its debts as they mature or any action or proceeding shall
have been taken by PNP XII or PNP XIII or by others
whereby any of the property of PNP XII or PNP XIII
shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of PNP XII or PNP XIII or for the sus-
pension of all or part of the operations of PNP XII or
PNP XIII.
(c) The legislation land charter under which PNP XII or
PNP XIII shall have been reincorporated as a company
limited by shares (Perseroan Terbatas), or any provision
thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated.


﻿15
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci-
fied, namely, that any event specified in Section 7.02 (a) or
(b) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall
have established a program, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, for the registration of the leases of the estates of
PNP XII and PNP XIII.
SECTION 8.02. The date September 22, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 3.01(b) and (c), and Article IV of this Agreement
and the provisions of Section 7.02 of this Agreement and
those of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿16
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ ABDUL MOEIS
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASsOCIATION
By Is/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each category and the percentage
of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in     % of Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I. Machinery, equipment,      9,600,000    100% of foreign ex-
vehicles and tractors,                   penditures and 95%
including spare parts                    of local expenditures
and agricultural                         ex-factory
chemicals
II. Withering troughs          1,600,000    100% of foreign ex-
penditures and 83%
of local expenditures
ex-factory
III. Civil works contracts        350,000    15% of total ex-
for housing                              penditures (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expenditure
component)
IV. Office equipment               50,000    83% of total ex-
penditures (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expenditure
component)
V. Consultants' services,      1,600,000    100% of foreign ex-
research and overseas                    penditures
training
VI. Unallocated                 1,800,000
TOTAL           15,000,000
S


﻿18
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the terri-
tories of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign expenditures and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except for expenditures incurred after June 1, 1971 and
included under Category V;
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such
percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of
the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for
such taxes; and
(c) expenditures of either PNP until evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association shall have been furnished to the
Association:
(i) that such PNP has been reincorporated as a Per-
seroan Terbatas under a charter acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) that the first Supervisory Board and Board of
Executive Management of such PNP have been duly


﻿19
appointed in accordance with Section 4.03(b) of
this Agreement;
(iii) that the Borrower and such PNP shall have duly
executed and delivered its Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association;
(iv) that such PNP shall have retained the services of
the organization as provided in Section 3.03 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(v) thait an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation of counsel acceptable to the Association
shall be furnished to the Association showing:
(1) that such PNP is a company limited by shares
(Perseroan Terbatas) duly organized and op-
erating under the laws of the Borrower;
(2) that the appointments referred to in (ii) above
have been validly made; and
(3) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement of such
PNP has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
parties thereto and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of such parties in accord-
ance with its terms.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of


﻿20
such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other
expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of local expenditures under Category I or II or of total
expenditures under Category III or IV shall increase and
no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's program for
rehabilitation and development of its tea, industry and con-
sists of the following parts:
Part A.
(1) Tea research, including the establishment near Ban-
dung of a 300 ha. tea research center to serve the
Borrower's tea industry; and
(2) A survey of the smallholder and private estate tea
industries.
Part B.
The rehabilitation and development of the estates of
PNP XII and PNP XIII, consisting of :
(1) Rehabilitation of about 21,000 ha. of existing tea gar-
dens through an intensive three-year program of fer-
tilizer application, based on leaf analysis and other
available data, and weed eradication with chemical
weedkiller and accompanied by pest and disease
control;
(2) New tea planting on about 2,300 ha.;
(3) New cinchona planting (covering about 1,100 ha.) on
two estates of PNP XII, including the provision of
some preprocessing equipment;
(4) Rehabilitation and development of green leaf trans-
port and handling facilities, including rehabilitation
of estate and feeder roads and replacement of trans-
port equipment;
(5) Rehabilitation of tea factories through repair and
renewal of worn-out and obsolete machinery, includ-
ing power equipment, with some factory reconstrue-


﻿22
tion; consolidation and expansion of tea factories to
accommodate planned crop increase; and provision
of a small amount of office equipment;
(6) Improvement and addition to labor housing;
(7) Preparation of comprehensive replanting programs;
and
(8) Management assistance and staff training.
The estates and crops included in Part B of the Project
are listed in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1977.


﻿23
ANNEX
PROJECT ESTATES
PNP XII
Area
Estate                      in ha.          Crop
Bukittunggul              771         cinchona
Bungamelur               1,503       cinchona
Gedeh                   1,053           tea
Goalpara                1,616           tea
Gunung Mas              1,396           tea
Montaja                   845           tea
Pangheotan                985           tea
Pasir Nangka             5,111          tea
Rantjabolang             1,750          tea
Rantjasuni               2,137          tea
Rongga                   2,972          tea
Sperata Sinumbra         2,330          tea
Tjikopo Selatan          1,151          tea
Tjibitu                 1,726           tea
PNP XIII
Area
Estate                      in ha.          Crop
Dajeuh Manggung           804           tea
Kertamanah                780           tea
Malabar                  1,724          tea
Papandajan               1,928          tea
Pasir Junghuhn            618           tea
Pasir Malang             1,459          tea
Purbasari                1,012          tea
Santosa                 1,289           tea
Sedep                   2,519           tea
Talun                     963           tea
Tjinjiruan              1,418           tea
Tjisaruni               1,700           tea


﻿24
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invi-
tations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to
whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, the eval-
uation and comparison of the bids received, the reasons for
the intended award and the comment thereon of the inspec-
tion service referred to in Section 3.03(b) of this Agree-
ment. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower
whether it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with the
Development Credit Agreement, and shall state the reasons
for any objections it may have.
(c) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and conditions
shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially dif-
fer from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿25
(d) Two copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract.
2. With respect to any other contract, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, as well as a copy of the record of public opening
of bids and the bid evaluation report. The Association shall
promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with the
Development Credit Agreement and, in such event, no ex-
penditure under such contract shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
3. Evaluation of Foreign and Local Bids for Goods.
For the purpose of evaluating bids, bid prices for all
contracts for goods shall be determined in accordance with
the following rules:
(a) The term Local Bid means any bid submitted by any
manufacturer, established in the territories of the Bor-
rower, for such goods manufactured or processed to a sub-
stantial extent (as determined by the Association) in the
territories of the Borrower; any other bid shall be deemed
to be a Foreign Bid.
(b) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be determined
by adding the following amounts:
(i) an amount representing the ex-factory price thereof;
and


﻿26
(ii) an amount representing domestic freight, insurance
and other costs of delivery of the goods to the place
of their use or installation.
(c) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price of
such goods net of any taxes on their importation,
or, in the case of a Foreign Bid for goods manufac-
tured or processed in the territories of the Bor-
rower, the ex-factory price of such goods;
(ii) an amount representing any taxes on the importa-
tion of the goods into the territories of the B'dr-
rower which generally apply to non-exempt import-
ers, or 15o of the amount specified in (c) (i) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii) an amount representing domestic freight, insurance
and other costs of delivery of the goods to the place
of their use or installation.


