Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB4606 
Project Name 
Guatemala Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan 
with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT DDO)  
 
Region 
LCR 
Sector 
General Water/Sanitation/Disaster Prevention (100%) 
Project ID 
P112544 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Guatemala 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, National Coordinator for Risk Reduction 
(CONRED), and Vicepresidency 
Date PID Prepared 
March 4, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 23, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
April 14, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Guatemala, a lower middle-income country with a multiethnic population of about 13 million people, 
and a per-capita GNI of US$2,610, is the largest economy in Central America. Although a source of 
cultural strength and rich historical heritage, Guatemala’s ethnic diversity has been accompanied by 
conflict and exclusion since colonial times. In the latter half of the 20th century, long-standing socio-
political and economic tensions sparked a debilitating 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996 after 
protracted negotiations led to the signing of a set of Peace Accords between the Government and 
guerrilla leaders. 
 
Growth has been strong in recent years, but slowed recently with the global economic crisis. The 
Guatemalan economy grew by 5.2 and 6.3 percent in 2006 and 2007, respectively, while in 2008 GDP it 
is estimated to have slowed to 4 percent.  Although growth slowed in 2008 due to high oil and 
commodity prices in the first half of the year and the impact of the global financial crisis in the second 
half of the year, it was still relatively high compared to the average of only 3.2 percent during 2003-04. 
 
Sustainable development in Guatemala is hampered by the country’s exposure to adverse natural events. 
Guatemala is considered a hotspot for natural disasters. It is ranked as one of the top five high-risk 
countries in the world in terms of the vulnerability of its gross domestic product (GDP) to three or more 
hazards: 83.3 percent of Guatemala’s GDP is located in areas at risk
1
.
Between 1902 and 2005, 
Guatemala experienced 62 natural disaster events, which affected approximately 6 million people.
2
Since 1969 Guatemala has built significant disaster response capacity and institutions. However, 
building on lessons learned from this period and from innovations in disaster risk management from 
other countries, Guatemala has since 2005 taken the significant step to move from a reactive to a 
proactive approach to address disaster risk by investing in risk mitigation measures and by improving 
risk evaluation in planning and reconstruction activities. The current administration has elevated disaster 
risk management to one of its main priorities. 
1
World Bank, Natural Disaster Hotspots, 2005, Table 7.2: Countries at Relatively High Economic Risk from 
Multiple Hazards, p. 89. 
2
See Annex 6 for details on Guatemala’s exposure to natural hazards and the number of reported disasters in Guatemala. 
Page  2
Learning from recent disasters, Guatemala has made progress towards a more proactive disaster risk 
management system. The legal basis for this change are defined in two laws: the Social Development 
Law (Decree 42-2001), which includes the concept of disaster vulnerability reduction and notions of 
demographics and development planning as contributors to risk scenarios; and the Law of Housing and 
Human Settlements (Decree 120-96), which mandates that all territorial entities take disaster risk into 
account in development planning. The implementation of these two laws focus on vulnerability 
reduction. Actions taken include: (a) development by the Institute for Seismic, Volcanology and 
Meteorological Services (INSIVUMEH) of Landslide Event Maps, to inform territorial planning, and 
substantial investment in upgrading and expanding monitoring networks; (b) creation of risk evaluations 
by the 
Secretaría de Asuntos Agrarios
 (SAA) on land chosen for relocation of families affected by 
Hurricane Stan, so as to ensure that families would be relocated to safer areas; and (c) development by 
the Ministry of Planning (SEGEPLAN) of a methodology for the inclusion of disaster risk evaluations in 
territorial planning, and the development of instruments for its implementation.  
 
Following Hurricane Stan, Guatemala began to work on a National Program for Disaster Prevention and 
Reduction (
Programa Nacional de Prevención y Mitigación ante Desastres
,
PNPMD).  The PNPMD is 
a
coordination mechanism aimed at addressing disaster risk reduction in a comprehensive manner. 
Designed with support from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the PNPMD includes 
four lines of action: (i) improving risk identification and monitoring, (ii) investing to reduce risk, (iii) 
strengthening institutional and planning capacity for risk management, and (iv) developing risk 
financing strategies. Annex 6 details the four lines of action, agencies responsible, and budget 
allocations. More than 25 government and private institutions participated in the drafting of the 
PNPMD, ensuring a buy-in from important sector ministries. The current Government has validated the 
PNPMD through additional workshops and consultations, and through a CONRED resolution and 
budget appropriations for risk reduction investments in the 2009 national budget, new authorities have 
adopted it. 
 
The current Government has placed disaster risk management firmly among its development priorities. 
The 
Plan de la Esperanza
 2008
–2012, the policy program of the administration, focuses on increasing 
growth and reducing poverty and inequality. It articulates disaster risk management as a self-standing 
policy issue in the context of securing productivity, demonstrating significant political commitment. The 
government is aware of the significant economic consequences of business interruptions associated with 
the transfer of funds to address a disaster caused by adverse natural events, along with acknowledging 
the importance of poverty and inequality reduction. 
 
2.  Operation Objectives  
The development objective is to enhance the Government’s capacity to implement its disaster risk 
management program for natural disasters. This objective will be achieved by supporting policy and 
institutional reform in the following aspects of disaster risk management: 
 
·
Improving risk identification and monitoring; 
·
Increasing disaster risk reduction investments; 
·
Strengthening institutions and planning capacity for risk management; and 
·
Developing risk financing strategies. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Page  3
This CAT-
DDO is one of the government’s top priorities.  The government has recently shown strong 
commitment to tackle disaster risk, engaging in an aggressive program to strengthen disaster risk 
management in the country. The CAT DDO will complement other instruments and provide bridge 
financing until other resources become available in the event of a disaster triggered by an adverse 
natural event enabling a quicker response to address emergency needs, as well as lending for risk 
mitigation activities 
The Government has requested support for various technical assistance projects related to Disaster Risk 
Management. Guatemala’s Vice-President’s Office, in coordination with the National Committee for 
Risk Management, is implementing a “Technical and Scientific Information for Municipal Planning” 
project, with financing from the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR). This 
project was prepared over a two-year period in a participatory process with institutions including 
INSIVUMEH, MAGA, SE-CONRED, SEGEPLAN, and relevant municipalities. 
 
Guatemala is participating in Central American Probabilistic Risk Assessmen
t
(CAPRA), a regional 
initiative led by CEPREDENAC and Central American Governments with support from the UN/ISDR, 
IADB, and the World Bank. Part of an ongoing effort to promote a pro-active disaster risk management 
strategy in the Central American region, CAPRA applies probabilistic risk analysis techniques to 
measure magnitude and likelihood of occurrence of hazards. This information is combined with 
exposure of assets and vulnerability data, to produce a comprehensive measure of risk. The main 
CAPRA product is a compendium of risk maps that provide disaster risk specialists and policy-makers 
with the necessary information to manage future disaster risk. 
 
4. Financing 
The IBRD loan amount is expected to be US$ 85 million. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
While the Ministry of Finance (Hacienda) is the main counterpart of the Bank for this CAT DDO, 
implementation of the program is a shared responsibility among the National Coordinator for Risk 
Reduction (CONRED), and the Vice President’s Office. 
 
6.
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
The CAT DDO will provide a source of immediate liquidity in case of a natural disaster. The CAT DDO 
will complement other instruments in the country and provide a source of bridge financing while other 
sources (for example, concessional funding, bilateral aid, and reconstruction loans) are being mobilized 
following a disaster.
 
Risks  
The proposed loan is considered to be of moderate risk. Although prior actions needed for this loan have 
been achieved, progress of the overall program is subject to risks from inter-institutional arrangements 
that need to continue to exist for multisector coordination, such as those associated with the 
decentralization of responsibilities for disaster risk management actions.  
On the macroeconomic front, the main risks derive from the global financial crisis and more specifically 
from a deep and prolonged global deceleration.  The current global situation is expected to negatively 
impact Guatemala as credit to the private sector becomes tighter, remittances and foreign direct 
Page  4
investment growth decelerate, and the US demand for Guatemalan products declines. This risk is 
somewhat mitigated by recent steps taken by the authorities to enhance crisis preparedness including 
preparation and publication on January 15th of the Emergency and Economic Recovery National 
Program which tries to coordinate and adjust the country's policies to better afford the current situation. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
Disasters triggered by natural events have a disproportionate impact on the poor.
 Improvements in 
national disaster risk management and vulnerability reduction strategies are expected to benefit the poor. 
Ninety-nine percent of people affected by approximately 6,000 large-scale natural disasters registered 
worldwide between 1970 and 2002 were in developing countries.
5
The World Bank 2009 Poverty 
Assessment for Guatemala (PA) finds that the Hurricane Stan disproportionately impacted the poor. This 
is because the poorer segments of the population often live in the most vulnerable locations and in 
inadequately constructed housing.
3
In addition, the poor have limited labor skills, fewer assets, and little 
or no savings. They have little opportunity for risk diversification and have restricted access to credit. 
Because of this, they are less able to cushion the impact on consumption or disruptions to income. 
Exogenous shocks can also increase poverty indirectly through the effects of lower economic growth, 
higher inflation (the poor are more vulnerable to inflation), and through consequential lower government 
spending for social services.
4
According to the PA, poverty and extreme poverty are significantly higher among indigenous 
populations
.
Overall poverty rates among indigenous households remain over 75 percent (50% higher 
than the national average) and extreme poverty is almost double the national average. Furthermore, 
declines in poverty in Guatemala have not been uniform: non-indigenous populations have experienced 
a
decline in poverty, while indigenous populations have not. 
 
Distribution of wealth is a national concern and the 
Plan de La Esperanza 
has taken this into 
consideration focusing on increasing growth and reducing poverty and inequality.
 The 
recommendations from the PA will be taken into consideration during project implementation.  It is 
important to recognize that exogenous shocks can also increase poverty indirectly through the effects of 
lower economic growth, higher inflation, and through consequential lower government spending for 
social services.  
 
The proposed operation supports policies that will make investments to alleviate poverty more 
sustainable by strengthening risk evaluations in territorial planning.
 Moreover, given that the CAT 
DDO reduces the risk of interruption and diversion of resources from the other pillars of the national 
development plan, the prior actions taken by the Government are expected to allow the continued 
implementation of poverty and social programs.
 
5
International Monetary Fund, Fund Assistance for Countries Facing Exogenous Shocks (Washington DC, 2003, 
available at http://www.imf.org/external/np/pdr/sustain/2003/080803.pdf).  
3
World Bank, Caribbean Economic Overview 2002: Macroeconomic Volatility, Household Vulnerability, and 
Institutional and Policy Response (Washington, DC: World Bank Report No. 24165-LAC, 2003). 
4
International Monetary Fund, Fund Assistance for Countries Facing Exogenous Shocks (Washington DC, 2003, 
available at http://www.imf.org/external/np/pdr/sustain/2003/080803.pdf). 
Page  5
Environmental Aspects 
The CAT DDO is expected to have significant positive impact on the environment and natural 
resources through the country’s Disaster Risk Management Program.
 Good disaster risk 
management integrates sound environmental management practices, such as those related to river basin 
management and slope stabilization; in Guatemala good practices include awareness campaigns aimed at 
educating the public in the relevant aspects of environmental management. Moreover, the critical 
funding provided through this operation will support the implementing measures that reduce 
environmental degradation and its adverse consequences on the population. In particular, this 
operation’s prior action will help the Government of Guatemala support and strengthen the following 
action areas: (a) risk identification, assessment, and monitoring capacities by enhancing its institutional 
framework; (b) strengthening institutions and planning capacity for risk management, by validating the 
first National Program for Disaster Reduction and Prevention, and finalizing a methodology for risk 
reduction in territorial planning; and (c) investing to reduce risk by rebuilding schools with 
infrastructure less vulnerable to disasters, and regulating the CONRED law so that buildings are 
constructed in accordance with seismic building standards.
 
Guatemala has recently passed a new National Environmental Policy (
Política de Conservación, 
Protección y Mejoramiento del Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales
).
 This policy is in part based on the 
recommendations from the 2006 Country Environmental Analysis (CEA). Furthermore the Government 
is committed to improve environmental management as reflected in the National Development Plan 
2008
–2012. 
The CAT DDO operation places particular emphasis on assuring improved transparency and 
accountability of social and environmental issues with respect to governmental oversight and the 
decision-making process.
 In compliance with OP 8.60, the regulations in place for reducing adverse 
effects and enhancing positive effects have been reviewed. All risk prevention activities are subject to 
environmental impact assessments, and even if the emergency response, rehabilitation, and 
reconstruction activities are in principle exempt from an ex ante assessment, a report on any impact is 
often prepared and filed. Thus, social, economic, and environmental considerations are taken into 
account by the GoG during an emergency situation, and steps such as emergency allocations, shelter 
placements, rehabilitation, etc., are taken during an emergency, as regulated by law. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Name: Joaquin Toro 
Title: Disaster Risk Management Specialist 
Tel.: 1-202-458-5990 
Fax: 1-202-522 0262 
Em: 
jtoro@worldbank.org
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Page  6
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop) 
 
