Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4298 
Operation Name 
GUATEMALA CATASTROPHE DEVELOPMENT POLICY  
LOAN DEFERRED DRAW DOWN OPTION (CAT DDO) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General Water, Sanitation, and Disaster Prevention (100%) 
Project ID 
P112544 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, CONRED, National Coordinator  for Risk 
Reduction 
Date PID Prepared 
October 29, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Sustainable development in Guatemala is hampered by exposure to adverse natural events. 
Guatemala is one of the top five more exposed countries in the world to adverse natural events
1
.
During 
the period of 1902-2005 Guatemala experienced 62 natural disaster events, which affected 
approximately 6 million people.
2
Recognizing that disasters are most effectively dealt with before they 
happen, Guatemala has included disaster risk management in the National Development Plan and is 
investing in reducing risk. 
Guatemala has put disaster risk management at the core of its development program
.
Guatemala is 
regularly affected by earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, flooding, and forest fires.  The 
Government has realized that if left without mitigation these hazards can trigger dire human and 
economic disasters.. This Disaster Risk Management DPL with a CAT DDO is one of the lending 
operations agreed between the Government and the Bank for the CPS period. As indicated by the CPS, 
the CAT DDO would provide bridge financing until other resources become available in the event of a 
disaster triggered by an adverse natural event enabling a quicker response to address emergency needs, 
as well as lending for risk mitigation activities. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The development objective of the operation is to 
strengthen the Government’s program for 
reducing risks resulting from adverse natural events. 
This objective will be achieved by supporting 
the policy area of disaster risk management with its three strategic pillars for implementation. These 
pillars are: 
 
·
Reduce vulnerability to adverse natural events and support disaster prevention 
·
Strengthen disaster preparedness and response 
·
Establish effective mechanisms for recovery and reconstruction 
 
The expected outcomes would include: 
1
The World Bank (2005). Natural Disaster Hotspots: A Global Risk Analysis. Disaster Risk Management Series No. 5, Washington DC 
2
See Annexes 6 for details on Guatemala’s exposure to natural hazards and the number of reported disasters in Guatemala. 
Page  2
·
Awareness of the risk by authorities at municipal level increased 
·
Reduction of losses of life and improved  evacuations 
·
%
of people affected by an adverse natural event who requested assistance received emergency 
support 
·
Awareness of Gov authorities increased about fiscal vulnerabilities  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
Up to US$85M will be made available to the Government immediately following a request for 
disbursement, when a natural disaster has occurred resulting in a declaration of a state of emergency 
by the President of Guatemala, in accordance with Public Order Law 
“Ley de Orden Publico”
 article 
14. National Congress will have to ratify the declaration of the state of emergency by means of 
Decreto Ley.  
Specific policies supported by this DPL are described below. 
Government of Guatemala’s Prior Actions 
Policy Area 
Prior Action 
Completed 
Strategic Pillars for 
Implementation 
Progress on January 30, 2009 
Reduce vulnerability and support 
disaster prevention 
Strengthen preparedness and 
response 
Validation of the national 
disaster risk management plan in 
a
participatory process. The plan 
was approved by th National 
Counsil of CONRED decree 
onJanuary 15, 2009 .The plan 
specifies the responsible agency 
and estimated budget 
appropriation. 
Disaster risk 
management 
Inclusion of 
Disaster Risk 
Management as 
a
prominent 
and self 
standing 
priority into the 
National 
Development 
Plan.  
Establish effective mechanism 
for recovery and reconstruction 
National disaster response plan 
updated and implemented on 
December  2008. 
Disasters have historically been an important cause of poverty.
 The proposed operation supports 
policies that seek to alleviate poverty by strengthening disaster risk management in Guatemala. In 
case of a declaration of emergency, the activation of the CAT DDO will avoid the need of deviating 
funds originally designated to development projects. This will guarantee the continuity of 
development plans, mainly targeted at alleviating the needs of the poor. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The project is expected to have significant positive impacts on the environment and natural 
resources through its engagement with the disaster risk management program.
 Good disaster 
risk management integrates sound environmental management practices such as those related to river 
basin management and slope stabilization. This includes public awareness campaigns aimed at 
educating the general public in related aspects of environmental management.
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
($85m.) 
 Total 
85,000,000 
 
6. Contact point 
Name: 
Joaquín Toro  
Page  3
Title: Hazard Risk Management Specialist 
Tel.: 1-202-458-5990 
Fax: 1-202-522 3552 
Em: jtoro@worldbank.org
 
