                                          CONFORMED COPY


                                      LOAN NUMBER 7683-GT




       Loan Agreement
(Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan)


                     between


          REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA


                       and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




                Dated June 1, 2010
                                                            LOAN NUMBER 7683-GT

                                LOAN AGREEMENT

        Agreement dated June 1, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA            (“Borrower”)      and     INTERNATIONAL            BANK       FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of eighty five million Dollars
        ($85,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
                                          -2-


2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that
        upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
        interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
        shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
        the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
        Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
        continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
        shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General
        Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.06.   (a)    Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
               principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
               provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

        (b)    The Borrower may, at the time of requesting a Withdrawal, also request
               repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
               Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity
               of such Withdrawal does not exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date
               and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from
               the Withdrawal Date (or such other average maturity and/or final
               maturity as may be generally applicable to loans made by the Bank to the
               Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such repayment
               provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior to
               the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.

2.07.   (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
               of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
               (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
               amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
               Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
               portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
               from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting
               of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
               principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
               establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
               Variable Rate.

        (b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
               is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
               in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
               provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
               Guidelines.
                                          -3-


2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
        accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
        basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the
        aggregate equal eight million five hundred thousand Dollars ($8,500,000) shall
        be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity
        of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and
        of the Conversion Guidelines.

2.09.   At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank,
        refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such
        amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the
        repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions
        acceptable to the Bank.

2.10.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower, through its Ministry of Public Finance, declares its commitment
        to the Program and its implementation. To this end, and further to Section 5.08
        of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
                Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                           -4-


                     ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
        in the opinion of the Bank, the Borrower has maintained an appropriate
        macroeconomic policy framework, consistent with the objectives of the Program.

5.02    Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
        which expire on October 14, 2010.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
        8a Avenida y 21 Calle
        Centro Cívico, Zona 1
        Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A.

        Telephone:                        Facsimile:

        (502) 22485002                    (502) 22485005
        (502) 22485080                    (502) 22485084

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                    Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or            1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)
                                        -5-


AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.



                              REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA



                              By /s/ José Francisco Villagrán de León

                                                         Authorized Representative



                              INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                              By /s/ Laura Frigenti
                                                         Authorized Representative
                                          -6-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                     Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.        Actions under the Program

A.      The actions taken by the Borrower to enhance its capacity to implement a
        disaster risk management program for adverse natural events consist of the
        following: (i) the development and validation in a participatory process of the
        Program; and (ii) the inclusion of budgetary appropriations in support of the
        Program in the Borrower’s national budget for 2009.

Section II.       Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan shall (except for amounts required to
        pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche. The allocation of the
        amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                                    Amount of the Loan
                                         Allocated
              Allocations          (expressed in Dollars)

         Single Tranche                 84,787,500

         Front-end Fee                     212,500

         TOTAL AMOUNT                   85,000,000

C.      Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.

1.      No withdrawal shall be made of the Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied, based
        on evidence satisfactory to it, that a national and/or Regional state of emergency
        (estado de calamidad publica) exists in the Borrower’s territory as a result of a
        natural disaster which has been declared by a Borrower’s presidential decree and
        ratified by the Borrower’s Congress in accordance with the Borrower’s
        legislation.

2.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of
        a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a
        review of the Borrower’s progress in carrying out the Program is warranted, the
        Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the giving of such
                                        -7-


     notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless
     and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange
     of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the
     progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program.

D.   Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
     account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

2.   the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
     this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget
     management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
     at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
     Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
     refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
     refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is August 31, 2012.
                                       -8-


                                  SCHEDULE 2

                             Amortization Schedule

1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
     repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each May
     15 and November 15, the first installment to be payable on the 18th Interest
     Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and
     the last installment to be payable on the 47th Interest Payment Date following the
     Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the
     last one shall be equal to 3.33% of the Disbursed Amount. The last installment
     shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the Disbursed Amount.

2.   The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
     Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
     Amount.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 3 of this Schedule, in the
     event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
     an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
     is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

4.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency.
                                         -9-


                                    APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:

                   Group            Sub-group                 Description of Item
                    112                                Alcoholic beverages
                    121                                Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                       tobacco refuse
                    122                                Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                                       or not containing tobacco
                                                       substitutes)
                    525                                Radioactive and associated
                                                       materials
                    667                                Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                       stones, unworked or worked
                    718               718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                       thereof; fuel elements
                                                       (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                                       nuclear reactors
                    728               728.43           Tobacco processing machinery
                    897                897.3           Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                       platinum group metals (except
                                                       watches and watch cases) and
                                                       goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
                                                       wares (including set gems)
                    971                                Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                       gold ores and concentrates)
                                       - 10 -


     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
             agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
             (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
             satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

2.   “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
     through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
     Appendix.

3.   “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     enhance the Borrower's capacity to implement a disaster risk management
     program for adverse natural events and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
     February 19, 2009, from the Borrower to the Bank, declaring the Borrower’s
     commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
     Bank in support of the Program during its execution.

4.   “Regional” means the Borrower’s political subdivision as set forth in the
     Borrower’s Ley Preliminar de Regionalización Decreto Ley 70-86, of December
     17, 1986.

5.   “Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled
     “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to
     this Agreement.
                                         - 11 -


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                “Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end
                Fee and Interest

                         (a)    If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of
                the proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the Bank or the
                Association (“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such
                Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after the Effective
                Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding
                balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan
                Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if any, on the
                advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so withdrawn to
                itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the
                remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.”

4.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

5.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
                furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
                report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
                                      - 12 -


            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as
            follows:

            “‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution
            Date (as herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower
            and accepted by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect,
            and as further specified in the Conversion Guidelines.”

     (b)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.”

     (c)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (d)    The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows:

            “Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for
            the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington,
            D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of
            determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is
            applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which
            interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s
            fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar
            day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of
            denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of fixing the Variable
            Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed
            spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C.
            time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all
            or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section
            4.04 (a), the Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the
            manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines.
                                - 13 -


(e)   The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is
      modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout
      these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):

      “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
      support of which the Loan is made.”

(f)   The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows:

      “Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
      (1) the Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
      Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the
      weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above)
      LIBOR, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
      Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by it to fund
      loans that carry interest at a rate based on the Variable Spread; as
      reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
      annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one Currency,
      “Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.

(g)   A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows:

      “Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the
      Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.

(h)   A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows:

      “Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
      Bank pays the Withdrawal.
