                                                                                                            96081
Results Profile: Guatemala                                                                            October 19, 2010




 GUATEMALA

 Protecting and Expanding Opportunities for Vulnerable Groups




Overview
Since ending its 36-year-long civil war in 1996, Guatemala has made significant progress
toward macroeconomic and democratic stability. Assistance from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has focused on inclusive growth and reduction of
historically high levels of exclusion by, for instance, reducing poverty to 51percent from 56
percent over 2000-06 and raising net primary school enrollment to 95 percent from 85 percent
through 2000-08.

  Full Brief—5 Pages
Guatemala: Protecting and Expanding Opportunities for Vulnerable Groups—PDF, Sept 2010


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
Central America's largest economy, Guatemala
is a lower-middle-income country marked by
social indicators that often fall below those of
countries with far lower per capita incomes – in
particular for the country’s indigenous majority.
To illustrate, 56 percent of indigenous
households live in poverty, compared to 44
percent of non-indigenous households, and in
2006 nearly 70 percent of indigenous children
suffered from chronic malnutrition compared to
36 percent of non-indigenous children. Due to
historically low tax revenues (currently around      MORE
11percent of gross domestic product), the
                                                      Guatemala: Mi Futuro en mis Primeros
government faces difficulties in locating the fiscal  Centimetros
means to increase expenditures in education,
health and infrastructure for excluded groups –
all the more so as a substantial drug trade-
induced rise in crime competes for government resources.          More Results
This situation has been aggravated since 2008 with
successive fuel, food, and economic crises as well as several
natural disasters – including a tropical storm causing US$980
million in damages – which have put the progress made in
the last decade in poverty and inequality reduction and
                                                                    74%
                                                                    gross completion rates in
health and education at risk.                                       primary schools, up from 67% in
                                                                    2007

Approach

IBRD lending and technical programs have supported the
country’s efforts to improve the lives of its people,
                                                                     MORE INFORMATION
jeopardized by the impact of successive fuel, food and
economic crises and natural disasters.                                 Country Website

                                                                       Country Brief
Results                                                                Country Partnership Strategy

                                                                       Active Projects in Guatemala
This commitment is illustrated, for instance, by the Bank’s
                                                                     Data and Statistics
support to the government response to these recent crises.
To protect social expenditures and keep the momentum of
social programs in the context of crisis-induced tax revenue
declines, the Bank significantly increased its development
                                                                   
policy lending, to US$350 million in fiscal year (FY) 2010
from a planned US$200 million alone. When tropical storm
Agatha hit the country in mid-2010, causing almost US$1billion in damages, the Bank stood
ready to support the country with US$85 million in crisis response financing. These funds
backed government rescue operations – for instance to evacuate over 150,000 people – as
well as longer-term efforts to reconstruct public infrastructure.


Similarly, investment lending operations have contributed to progress in expanding
opportunities for vulnerable groups. The education project, for instance, has contributed to
increasing gross completion rates in primary schools to 74 percent from 67 percent over 2007-
09 in the country’s 130 most vulnerable municipalities. It achieved this by, for instance,
substantially strengthening teacher training and professional development. In addition, it has
supported an increase in lower secondary gross enrollment rates in poor rural areas to 46
percent from 41 percent over 2007-09 by providing access to ‘telesecundarias’ in remote
areas.


The health project for its part is executing civil works in currently 29 health clinics and infant
and maternal health centers, contributing to an expected reduction in the ratio of indigenous to
non-indigenous infant mortality in the project area by 10 percent. Related, it has contributed to
an increase in family planning and reproductive health services for women to 54 percent from
43 percent through 2002 -09.


The ‘Rural  Economic Development Project’ is currently providing technical assistance, credit
and seed capital to 21 indigenous producer associations to enhance their productivity and
market access. This target group is projected to rise to 120 associations with 15,000 farmers
by FY2012. In addition, the project provides funding to elaborate participatory development
plans in over 130 target municipalities, with approximately 4.5 million inhabitants, to facilitate
orienting local investments towards the needs of the local, primarily indigenous population.


Moreover, a rural roads project is rehabilitating or improving close to 800 kilometers of roads,
enhancing access to primary and secondary roads for a rural target population of 600,000,
expected to rise to 900,000 by FY2012. These operations have been complemented by
initiatives to improve public sector governance and transparency. The financial management
project, for instance, has provided key support to establish the integrated financial management
system Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera (SIAF) and e-procurement portal
Guatecompras.

Partners

In line with the Paris Declaration, IBRD actively pursues donor coordination, both at the
political and technical levels. High-level harmonization includes active participation in the
‘Grupo de Dialogo’ in Guatemala, a donor harmonization working group with participation from
all major bilateral and multilateral donors in the country. In addition, IBRD actively seeks
opportunities for donor coordination at the project level. IBRD and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), for instance, provide joint financing (US$30 million each) and
undertake joint missions for the ‘Rural Economic Development Project’; in addition, close
coordination for the project takes place at the technical level with other donors involved in rural
development, among others the US Agency for International Development (USAID). 

Toward the Future

The repercussions of the crises since 2008 have reinforced both the pertinence of IBRD
program objectives and the urgency of its projects. Going forward, IBRD will sharpen its focus
in FY2011 and FY2012 on operations that cover critical development needs in the aftermath of
the crisis while setting the basis for an accelerated post-crisis growth. In this context, a
FY2011 US$100 million development policy loan under preparation is to protect social
expenditures and safeguard the progress made on social indicators, the ‘Rural Economic
Development Project’ is restructured to also provide financing for reconstruction of
infrastructure damaged by the Agatha storm, and a ‘Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise
(SME) Development Project’ is being prepared to enhance competitiveness of SMEs in key
post-crisis economic sectors.
 

 
