                   PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                            APPRAISAL STAGE
                               19 March 2013
                                              Report No.: AB7275

Operation Name                    Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan
Region                            EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                           Turkey
Sector                            General public administration sector (40%); General industry
                                  and trade (25%); Capital markets (15%); Non-compulsory
                                  pensions and insurance (20%)
Operation ID                      P127787
Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                       REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Implementing Agency               Undersecretariat of Treasury
Date PID Prepared                 February 26, 2013
Estimated Date of Appraisal       March 15, 2013
Estimated Date of Board           May 30, 2013
Approval
Corporate Review Decision         March 7, 2013
Other Decision

     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement


     Turkey’s rapid growth and development over the past decade is one of the success stories
     of the global economy. After a banking crisis in 2001, the country embarked on a
     concerted path of structural reform supported by strong fiscal consolidation, strengthened
     banking supervision, a reform of the social security system, and the shift to a flexible
     exchange rate regime with an independent Central Bank responsible for inflation
     targeting. Per-capita income subsequently almost tripled in less than a decade, and
     Turkey, with a population of 75 million, is now an upper middle-income country with the
     world’s 18th largest economy. Social outcomes have also improved considerably as a
     result of economic growth and improved public service delivery, with an increased in
     access to education and health services.

     Further enhancing the economy’s potential over the medium term and reaching high-
     income status will require more structural reforms, particularly at the micro level, to
     bolster competitiveness and boost private savings. Turkey’s business environment
     remains relatively burdensome, with the country ranking 71st in the 2013 Doing Business
     Ratings. Improving the investment climate is critical for raising Turkey’s labor
     productivity growth and further boosting its export performance. Turkey also has
     considerable potential to attract further FDI inflows (where Turkey ranks 23rd globally),
     bringing in associated new technologies, and providing a more stable source of external
     financing. The implementation of further micro reforms to deepen the financial sector
     will help provide greater access to financial services for all citizens and can also
       contribute to reversing the significant decline in Turkey’s domestic saving rates that took
       place over the past decade. Continuing the fight against informality will reinforce the
       payoff to the Government’s other reform efforts including in the area of competitiveness
       and domestic savings.

       Proposed Objective(s)
       The proposed DPL would support Turkey’s growth to high income status through the
       implementation of reforms in two key areas: (i) bolstering competitiveness via an
       improved business environment and better governance; and (ii) boosting domestic
       savings and deepening the financial sector.

       The DPL will contribute to the following expected Country Partnership Strategy
       outcomes under the competitiveness pillar: (i) sustained macroeconomic and financial
       stability and strengthened exports, domestic savings, and external resilience; (ii)
       improved investment and business climate; deepened and broadened access to finance.

       Preliminary Description
       The proposed Operation is a single-tranche stand-alone Operation. It supports measures
       under two pillars as follows:

       Pillar 1 Bolstering competitiveness: issuance of secondary legislation to ensure
       implementation of the commercial code, progress in improving the investment climate,
       and further actions taken to reduce informality.

       Pillar 2 Boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector: enactment of new
       legislation restructuring the private pension scheme, enactment of a new Capital Markets
       Law, and enactment of a Leasing, Factoring and Companies Law.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

       The policies and reforms supported by the CSDPL (CSDPL) program are expected to
       have positive distributional impacts in Turkey. All policy actions supported by the
       operation are expected to contribute to higher and sustainable growth, a stronger fiscal
       position and ultimately higher living standards over the long term, while specific
       measures under both pillars are also likely to have direct and positive distributional
       impacts over the short-term.

Environment Aspects

       The specific policies supported by the DPL series are not likely to have significant effects
       on Turkey’s environment, forests, water resources, habitats or other natural resources.

       Tentative financing
Source:                                                         ($m.)
Borrower                                                           0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development            600
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                        Total   600

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Marina Wes
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: 5242+8359 / 90-312-459-8359
Fax:
Email: mwes@worldbank.org
Location: Ankara, Turkey (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Elvan Ongun
Title: Acting Deputy Director General
Tel: (90-312) 204-6000
Email: hazine@hazine.gov.tr

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
