                  PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                            CONCEPT STAGE
                             03 January 2013
                                             Report No.: AB7219

Operation Name                   Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan
Region                           EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                          Turkey
Sector                           General public administration sector (56%); Other social
                                 services (22%); Health (11%); General education sector
                                 (11%)
Operation ID                     P127787
Lending Instrument               Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Implementing Agency              Undersecretariat of Treasury
Date PID Prepared                January 3, 2013
Estimated Date of Appraisal      March 29, 2013
Estimated Date of Board          May 30, 2013
Approval
Corporate Review Decision
Other Decision

     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
     The proposed Operation is anchored in the Government’s eighth Medium-Term Program
     (MTP), covering the period 2013-15, and issued on October 9th, 2012. The overarching
     goal is to maintain robust growth while containing the current account deficit by
     improving competitiveness and increasing domestic savings. The focus of the MTP is
     motivated by some of Turkey’s critical remaining development challenges, including (i) a
     relatively burdensome business environment, especially for SMEs; (ii) a very low
     domestic savings rate; (iii) a banking-dominated financial sector; and (iv) continued
     prevalence of informality.

     Proposed Objective(s)
     The proposed DPL would support Turkey’s growth en-route to high income status
     through the implementation of reforms in two key areas: (i) bolstering competitiveness
     via an improved business environment and better governance; and (ii) boosting domestic
     savings and deepening the financial sector.

     Preliminary Description
     The proposed Operation is a single-tranche stand-alone Operation. It supports measures
     under two pillars as follows:

     Pillar 1 Bolstering competitiveness: issuance of secondary legislation to ensure
     implementation of the commercial code, progress in improving the investment climate,
     and further actions taken to reduce informality.
       Pillar 2 Boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector: enactment of new
       legislation restructuring the private pension scheme, enactment of a new Capital Markets
       Law, and enactment of a Leasing, Factoring and Companies Law.

       The DPL will contribute to the following expected Country Partnership Strategy
       outcomes under the competitiveness pillar: (i) sustained macroeconomic and financial
       stability and strengthened exports, domestic savings, and external resilience; (ii)
       improved investment and business climate; deepened and broadened access to finance.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

       The overall poverty, social, and gender impacts of the policy measures supported under this DPL
       series will be assessed as part of the preparation of this Operation.


Environment Aspects

       The specific policies supported by the DPL series are not likely to have significant effects on
       Turkey’s environment, forests, water resources, habitats or other natural resources.

       Tentative financing

Source:                                                                                     ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                       0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                        600
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                            Total            600

        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Marina Wes
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: 5242+8359 / 90-312-459-8359
Fax:
Email: mwes@worldbank.org
Location: Ankara, Turkey (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Elvan Ongun
Title: Acting Deputy Director General
Tel: (90-312) 204-6000
Email: hazine@hazine.gov.tr
       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
