 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14861

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                                Date Posted: 11/09/2015

                 Country: Turkey
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                     Yes    No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P127787                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Competitiveness And            Project Costs (US$M):                     800.0               800.0
                           Savings Development
                           Policy Loan (csdpl)
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):
       Sector Board:       Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               06/06/2013
                                                                  Closing Date:          06/30/2014           06/30/2014
          Sector(s):         General industry and trade sector (34%); Non-compulsory pensions and insurance (17%);
                             Other social services (17%); SME Finance (16%); Capital markets (16%)
         Theme(s):           Export development and competitiveness (33%); Legal institutions for a market economy
                             (33%); Social risk mitigation (17%); Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support (17%)
Evaluator:                    Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                 Group:
                                                      Coordinator:
Mauricio Carrizosa            Robert Mark Lacey       Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

     The Program Document (PD, pp. I and 21) articulated the objective as follows:” The objective of the program
    supported by the proposed operation is to facilitate Turkey’s growth to high-income status by bolstering
    competitiveness and boosting domestic savings, thus reducing external vulnerabilities over the medium term.”
    Additionally, the PD (Results Matrix, p. 50-51) articulated sub-objectives for the two central objectives of
    “bolstering competitiveness” and “boosting domestic savings” as follows:

    For Bolstering Competitiveness:

    1.   Enhancing reporting and disclosure requirements and strengthening corporate governance;
    2.   Reducing the cost of starting and operating a business;
    3.   Reducing informality to help create a level playing-field among firms.

    For Boosting Domestic Savings:

    1.   Boosting domestic savings by restructuring the private pension scheme;
    2.   Laying a comprehensive and sound modern basis for the regulation of capital markets
    3.   Enhancing the regulatory landscape for promotion of nonbank financial institutions.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The program supported two policy areas:
    Policy Area I: Bolstering competitiveness via an improved business environment and better Governance

    Under this area, the program supported measures to (i) implement the Commercial Code; (ii) improve the
    investment climate; and (iii) reduce informality.

    Policy area II: Boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector.

    Under this area, the program supported measures to (i) restructure the private pension scheme; (ii) enact new
    leasing, factoring and companies legislation; and (iii) enact a new Capital Markets Law.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The DPO was approved on June 6, 2013 on the basis of prior actions implemented during the course of 2012 and
    2013. The Loan was signed on June 7, 2013, declared effective on July 16, 2013 and the Euro 624.1 million loan
    amount was disbursed in a single tranche on July 25, 2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
      Substantial. The DPO’s objective is relevant to the World Bank Group’s 2012-2015 Country Partnership
    Strategy (CPS), notably its competitiveness pillar, which included competitiveness and savings objectives. The
    2014 CPS Progress Report confirmed those objectives and extended the current CPS period to 2016. The
                                            th                    th
    objective is also relevant to Turkey’s 9 (2008-2013) and 10 (2014-2018) Development Plans and its rolling
    medium-term programs (2011-2013 and 2012-2014). The objective addresses structural constraints to growth
    towards high-income status, broadly including low competitiveness and low domestic savings, resulting in a
    vulnerable external environment. These were identified in analytical work conducted by the Bank, the IMF, and
    other partners. On competitiveness, Turkey ranks low on business regulations, when compared to the EU-28
    countries and its small and medium enterprises (SMEs) grow more slowly and are older than other firms, in
    contrast to what is observed in many other countries. On savings, Turkey’s saving rate exhibited a long term
    decline from its peak in 1988. As a result, Turkey relies extensively on external financing and is thus vulnerable to
    slowdowns in capital inflows.


b. Relevance of Design:
    Modest. Among the many policies that would increase competitiveness and domestic savings, the DPO was
   designed to cover those actions the Authorities prioritized. Accordingly, to improve the business environment, the
   DPO focused on implementation of the new Commercial Code, which would enhance financial transparency and
   corporate governance; on implementation of the Civil Procedures Law, which would speed up court processes;
   on simplified business registration; and on increased Social Security Audits and risk-based auditing, which would
   discourage informal employment. To increase savings, the DPO focused on pension law amendments with
   incentives for voluntary retirement savings; a new Capital Market Law, to deepen capital markets and increase
   their competitiveness and transparency; and on a new Leasing, factoring and Financing Companies Law,
   particularly to improve SME access to finance.
    The economy-wide coverage of the actions described above makes it possible that they would have an eventual
    impact on overall competitiveness and savings, although these actions cover limited dimensions of
    competitiveness, and focus mainly on enabling investment instruments, not on domestic savings rates.
    Furthermore, both the PD and the ICR (p.10-11) acknowledge that overall objective sought could only be
    achieved over the medium term, whereas the single tranche DPO has a time horizon of one year. For example,
    implementation of the Commercial Code and Civil Procedure Law needs to be tested in the courts and markets
    before their impact on competitiveness could be adequately assessed. As the ICR points out (p. 11), “ensuring
    that the overall objective of the operation is achieved will depend on reforms currently ongoing, including those
    supported by World Bank DPLs, as well as reforms in a broader set of policy areas.” The Bank chose the single
    tranche option due to political (imminent elections in Turkey) and exposure constraints. Given these constraints,
    a set of objectives better fitted to the one year time horizon could have been envisaged.
    Although the DPO contains some links to previous and subsequent operations in Turkey, these links are limited.
    There is a degree of commonality regarding the broad, strategic aspirations of boosting competitiveness and
    domestic saving and enhancing the business climate. However, this commonality is much reduced when it comes
    to the specific objectives, and there is only one shared indicator (corporate bond issuance). The closest specific
    link relates to the reforms of the Commercial Code, the Code of Contractual Obligations, and the Civil Codes,
    where the previous operation supported enactment of the laws, and the operation under review supports related
    regulations. The PD (para. 45) refers to the “taking forward” of “efforts to improve the climate for business growth,
    productivity and enterprise governance, through, inter alia, follow-up on the Commercial Code, the new Civil
    Procedures Law (CPL) and the new CML". However, such taking forward is a normal feature of Bank lending and
    does not necessarily imply strong links between the operations concerned. The DPO under review, therefore, is
    appropriately evaluated for what it is – a self-contained operation with its own objectives, indicators and targets.
    Turkey’s macroeconomic framework was broadly satisfactory when the operation was prepared and approved by
    the Board. According to the IMF (International Monetary Fund: Turkey: Staff Report for the 2013 Article IV
    Consultation, November 1, 2013), a reduction of imbalances was achieved in 2012, with the current account
    deficit falling from 9.7% of GDP to 6.1%. This was due to strong export performance and weak demand for
    imports. Inflation also decelerated to 6.2% from 10.4% the previous year. Reflecting these positive
    developments, Turkey was upgraded to investment grade by two credit rating agencies. However, adjustment
    came from reduced investment rather than higher savings, and Fund staff believed the current account deficit to
    still be up to 3% higher than warranted by fundamentals and optimal policy settings.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
     Facilitate Turkey’s growth to high -income status by bolstering competitiveness and boosting domestic savings ,
thus reducing external vulnerabilities over the medium term .

Bolstering Competitiveness : Substantial

Enhancing reporting and disclosure requirements and strengthening corporate governance, The program expected to
achieve this objective through regulations to implement the new Commercial Code. These covered the trade registry
system, independent audits, annual activity reports, and assembly meetings. At the end of the program, corporate
governance, reporting and disclosure improved. This is indicated by progress in the World Bank Group’s "Doing
Business" indices on the “ease of shareholder suits” and “extent of director liability.” The first increased from a 2012
baseline of 4 (in a scale of 1 to 10) to the target of 5 in 2014. The second increased from 4 to 7, surpassing the target
of 5. Progress is further indicated by the number of firms completing independent audits, which increased from 700
(2012 baseline) to 3,600 in 2014, well beyond the target of 1,400.

Reducing the cost of starting and operating a business, The program expected to achieve this objective through
secondary legislation (under Civil Procedure Law) for carrying out preliminary investigations before court hearings,
thereby speeding up court proceedings; and through a circular to simplify the registration of businesses. The cost in
attorney and court fees of enforcing contracts (as a share of debt value), a "Doing Business" indicator, declined from
the baseline of 27.9 percent in 2012 to 24.9 percent in 2013, the target value. The ICR (p. 15) notes that the cost of
enforcing contracts declined at the time of adoption of the Civil Procedure Law (2012), but that the expected cost
reduction in subsequent years did not materialize (the target was equal to the level attained in 2013, the year the DPO
was approved). The circular to simplify registration of businesses eliminated one procedure but other regulations
added others. As a result the number of procedures increased from the baseline of six in 2012 to seven in 2014.

Reducing informality to help create a level playing-field among firms. The program expected to achieve this objective
by increasing audits of businesses by the Social Security Institution (SSI) in order to identify unregistered (i.e.,
informal) employees, and by using risk-based methods to target those audits to occupations and/or sectors where
unregistered employment and/or under-reporting of earnings are believed to be widespread. Results are somewhat
ambiguous. At the end of the program, the SSI had increased the number of sectors covered from the 2012 baseline
of 2 to the target of 4 in 2014. The ratio of unregistered (i.e., informal) to total employees in workplaces audited by the
SSI was 8.5 percent in 2012. This indicator was expected to increase as a result of greater use of risk-based audit
techniques by the SSI. However, the indicator declined to 7.0 percent in 2014. The ICR notes (p. 17), nevertheless,
that efforts by the authorities may have contributed to reduce the importance of informality in the economy, as it is
estimated to have declined from 42.1 percent in 2011 to 39.0 percent in 2012 and to 36.4 percent in 2014. The ICR
Data Sheet (p. iv) reports that "the actual number of identified unregistered workers increased by 50%."

Boosting Domestic Savings : Modest

Boosting domestic savings by restructuring the private pension scheme. The program expected to achieve this
objective by improving incentives for voluntary retirement savings. At the end of the program, pension regulations had
decreased pension fund charges from the 2012 baseline of 3.7 percent of fund accumulations to 2.6 percent in 2014,
well below the target of 3.5 percent. However, early exit rates (withdrawal of contributions within the first three years),
which were expected to decline, increased from 11.8 percent in 2011-2013 to 13.4 percent in 2012-2014 (the target of
19.0 percent became irrelevant, as the baseline – measured for 2010-2012 - was revised from 21.2 percent to 12.6
percent). The ICR notes that the number of entrants increased significantly as well as assets in the system.
Nevertheless, such increases do not necessarily reflect increased savings rates. They may result from portfolio
reallocations from other investment options. While the ICR (p. 18) reports that private pension fund assets “more than
doubled to 4.9 percent of GDP by 2013”, the domestic savings rate did not show an upward trend from 2009 to 2013.

Laying a comprehensive and sound modern basis for the regulation of capital markets. The program expected to
achieve this objective by enacting a Capital Market Law (CML), a prior action aimed at making capital markets deeper,
more competitive and transparent (PD, Results Matrix, p 51). At the end of the program, the volume of mutual funds
had increased from its 2012 baseline value of TL 30.2 billion to TL 33.4 billion in 2013, above the target of TL 33.0
billion, Corporate bonds issued increased from TL35.7 billion in 2012 to TL66.4 billion in 2014, well above the target of
TL35 billion. It is unclear how these data indicate “laying a comprehensive and sound modern basis for the regulation
of capital markets”, an objective that is akin to an output, not a development outcome. The indicators do not provide
an adequate measure of capital market depth, as they are not related to measures of the size of the economy (such
as GDP). Furthermore, the indicators say little, if anything, with regard to how competitive and transparent capital
markets are. A better, broader indicator suggests little progress was made. The index of financial market development
calculated by the World Economic Forum (WEF) has not improved since 2007.

Enhancing the regulatory landscape for promotion of nonbank financial institutions (NBFI). The program expected to
achieve this objective through enactment of a Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law, which aimed to
contribute to the growth of the NBFI sector and to improve access to finance, especially for SMEs (PD, Results Matrix,
p 51). At the end of the program, the leasing penetration rate (Leasing Volume Except buildings/ Private Fixed
Investment Except Buildings) increased from the 2011 baseline value of 4.7 percent to 6.2 percent in mid-2013,
exceeding the target of 5.5 percent. Again, this indicator reveals little if anything on the poorly defined objective of
enhancing the regulatory landscape for the promotion of NBFIs, an objective that is also more akin to an output, not a
development outcome. The indicator points to a more extensive use of leasing for financing investment other than
buildings, while indicating little with regard to whether such financing improved access to finance or benefited SMEs.

The objectives and targets listed above do not reflect a boosting of the domestic savings rate, an objective which the
ICR suggests (p. 17) could only be achieved in the medium term and which it makes no attempt to measure. There is,
as yet, little evidence of a sustained improvement in the domestic savings rate, although the gross domestic savings
rate jumped to 15.9 percent of GDP in 2014, following five years during which it hovered around 14.3 percent. The
2014 Staff Report IMF Article IV Consultation concluded: “Turkey’s economy has grown by a remarkable 6 percent on
average since 2010. However, low national saving and competitiveness challenges are constraining investment and
exports and making it harder for Turkey to meet its ambition to close the per capita income gap with advanced
economies. Low saving also contributes to external imbalances that expose the country to the risks associated with
international capital flows. The authorities’ immediate priority should therefore be to raise private and public
savings” (International Monetary Fund: Turkey: Staff Report for the 2013 Article IV Consultation, September 24,
2014).

Growth and Exposure to External Vulnerabilities

The ICR did not discuss DPO impacts on Turkey’s growth performance or exposure to external vulnerabilities, which
were to be aided by efforts to improve competitiveness and raise savings and which were articulated as part of the
PDO. Other than a statement (p. 22) to the effect that “Turkey’s transition to high-income status has been slightly
delayed”, there is no discussion in the ICR of the DPO’s impact on growth or the achievement of high income status.
Similarly, the ICR does not provide indications or data suggesting that measures supported by the DPO reduced
external vulnerabilities over the medium term. As already noted, such impacts cannot be assessed at this point
because they would mostly occur only over the medium term, well-beyond the life of the DPO. The most recent IMF
external sector assessment states that “Short-term debt exposes Turkey to significant rollover risks. Gross external
financing needs are estimated at over 25 percent of GDP in 2015, making Turkey vulnerable to changes in global
market conditions” (IMF 2015 External Sector Report— Individual Economy Assessments. Washington DC, July 27,
2015.)


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

    The DPO objective addressed pitfalls in competitiveness and domestic savings, both of which are
    well-documented constraints to growth and external balance. Both country development plans and programs as
    well as Bank strategies support the objective. But the DPO was designed to achieve only initial steps towards its
   objective. Its one-year horizon was too short to achieve impacts on external balance and, ultimately, growth.
   Some initial outcomes that may be expected to improve competitiveness in the medium term, resulting from
   better commercial and civil codes, were achieved, leading to a substantial rating for the efficacy of the enhanced
   competitiveness objective. With regard to domestic savings, the operation focused on improved financial and
   capital market options for investors. However, the targets chosen do not reflect a boosting of the domestic
   savings rate, for which there is to date little evidence. The efficacy of this objective is therefore rated modest.
   Overall, outcome is assessed as moderately satisfactory .
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Risks to the outcomes achieved thus far are low, as those outcomes are underpinned by a set of laws that are
   unlikely to be reversed. Risks to the expected effects on competitiveness, domestic savings, and external
   vulnerabilities are higher. Sustainability depends upon a degree of macroeconomic stability that cannot be taken
   for granted. There is, as yet, little evidence of a sustained improvement in the domestic savings rate. Moreover,
   political uncertainty may adversely affect business confidence and growth. There are also implementation risks
   derived from expanded mandates to some institutions which may stretch their capacity. Past lack of sustained
   progress in areas targeted by the Bank since 2007 (as indicated by the World Economic Forum’s efficiency
   indicators on goods, labor, and financial markets) underlines the significant risk that the medium term objectives
   of the DPO may not be achieved.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The DPO was designed to address development challenges supported by country and Bank programs.
   Preparation for this operation benefited from the World Bank Group’s analytical work covering the investment
   climate, the financial sector, and domestic savings; and from previous lending on competitiveness. The
   DPO’s long term financing was aligned with the need to lengthen the average maturity of Turkey’s external
   debt, and the operation was embedded in a programmatic framework marked by previous competitiveness
   DPOs and further intended DPOs in support of Turkey’s Tenth National Development Plan. The Bank noted
   that Turkey’s macro vulnerabilities derived from excessive reliance on external financing while pointing to its
   resilient banking sector, dynamic private sector, and favorable public and external debt dynamics as
   conditions mitigating risks to the economy. A Poverty and Social Impact Assessment concluded that the DPO
   could have positive distributional impacts from gains in formality and pension reforms. The PD covered
   fiduciary aspects and concluded that PFM was adequate for the operation and referred to a safeguards
   assessment that did not uncover material weaknesses in the Central Bank’s safeguard framework.
   Assessment of risks was adequate and covered macroeconomic, implementation (four new laws), and
   political risks. A field-based team conducted a regular and active dialogue with the Authorities. The Bank
   collaborated with IFC and the European Commission on the DPO’s business climate issues and exchanged
   views with the IMF on macroeconomic issues and structural reforms.

   Nevertheless, the Bank’s approach, while analytically solid, was undermined by excessively ambitious
   objectives (improvements in competitiveness and savings) that cannot be attained within the horizon of a
   one-year single tranche operation (see Section 3b above). There was a lack of clarity as to how reforms to
   investment instruments would translate into a higher domestic savings rate, and not just into changes in
   portfolio allocation or capital inflows. The M&E framework suffered accordingly, as monitoring indicators
   focused on possible initial achievements of the reforms, as reflected in the DPO’s sub-objectives, with no
   attention to overall competitiveness and domestic savings impacts.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The ICR provides scant details on supervision, indicating only the completion of prior actions and the focus of
   supervision on preparing a new series of DPOs. The only Implementation Status and Results report the Bank
   filed (November 2013) has no discussion of progress towards development objectives or implementation
   progress. Much effort during supervision was expended in preparing follow-up operations, but with no
   indication of efforts to correct M&E weaknesses or redefine objectives to those that could be achieved in the
   DPO’s short horizon.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The ICR reports strong commitment from the Authorities and stakeholders, as suggested by a strong
   high-level buy-in of the policy agenda and the joint work on savings and informality conducted by the Bank
   and the Government. In some areas (e.g., new Law on Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies), the
   Authorities consulted with stakeholders. The fiscal environment was appropriate, albeit with noted risks
   stemming from an excessive reliance on external finance that the DPO aimed to address by bolstering
   domestic savings. Readiness for implementation was acceptable, perhaps with some limitations in achieving
   good inter-agency coordination. The ICR (p. 9) indicates that it did not detect systematic monitoring by the
   Government of outcomes across the actions supported by the DPO. The ICR did not report on fiduciary
   performance with respect to the DPO funds.




  Government Performance Rating :                          Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The task team indicated that the Under-Secretariat of Treasury, the implementing agency, only had a
   coordination role. The ICR indicates the Undersecretariat was helpful in establishing dialogue with a broader
   number of agencies. It further points out that the agencies in charge of implementation of the reforms
   (Ministries of Labor and Economy, Central Bank, and Capital Market Board) were generally well-equipped
   and resourced to undertake the tasks, although the quality of monitoring and evaluation varied.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   M&E design included indicators for the sub-objectives that the reforms supported (e.g., number of firms
   completing audits, an indicator of the disclosure and governance sub-objective, a focus of the implementation of
   the Commercial Code). M&E indicators did not cover the broader development objective (growth,
   competitiveness, higher domestic savings, reduced external vulnerabilities) of the program. For example,
   movements in the money volumes of mutual funds and corporate fund issues may reflect portfolio shifts,
   including international capital flows, and thus not reflect movements in the domestic savings rate. Those volumes
   only provide evidence of the presence of investment options that domestic (or external) investors tap.
   Furthermore, increases in such volumes may reflect previous trends and thus do not necessarily suggest a
   response to the new Capital Market Law supported by the DPO. Investor protection indexes, number of audited
   firms, attorney and court fees, and procedures to open a business offer only a partial view of competitiveness.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR reported it did not detect a systematic monitoring of DPO outcomes by the Government. The
   implementation experience shows a varied capacity among institutions, from the relatively straightforward
   monitoring of developments in the broader financial sector development to the part of the program covered by the
   Social Security Institution or the Public Oversight Authority. The use of external sources partially mitigated the
   lack of a coordinated national information infrastructure.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR did not discuss M&E Utilization. M&E seems to have been used only for ICR purposes.


 M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The PD indicated the reforms supported by the DPL were not likely to cause significant environmental effects.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:


   The PD referred to a 2005 IMF assessment that did not uncover material weaknesses in the Central Bank’s
   safeguard framework. It concludes that such assessment and past audits indicated no need for additional
   safeguards such as an audit of the deposit account. The ICR did not discuss fiduciary compliance.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory           Moderately             Achievements comprised initial
                                                      Satisfactory           outcomes towards achieving the
                                                                             enhanced competitiveness objective.
                                                                             The chosen targets for domestic
                                                                             savings may reflect portfolio shifts, and
                                                                             there is little evidence of a boost to
                                                                             domestic savings.
        Risk to Development Moderate                  Significant            Risks to the expected effects on
                   Outcome:                                                  competitiveness, domestic savings, and
                                                                             external vulnerabilities are high.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory            Moderately             The PDO was too ambitious to be
                                                      Satisfactory           achieved by a stand-alone operation.
                                                                             M&E suffered from inadequacies in
                                                                             monitoring of some sub-objectives and
                                                                             did not monitor the overall development
                                                                             objective.
      Borrower Performance : Satisfactory             Moderately             The ICR provides scant detail of
                                                      Satisfactory           government performance.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    IEG draws the following lessons:

        A single-Tranche DPO may not achieve significant progress towards outcomes such as competitiveness
    and savings behavior because effective reform implementation takes time, further reforms may be needed, and
    necessary changes in the behavior of economic agents also take time. Indeed, objectives may take a long
    period of time to be achieved. Turkey’s World Economic Forum competitiveness scores in the areas covered
    by the DPO (efficiency in goods and finance) has made little or no progress since at least 2007, when the Bank
    started a series of DPLs covering growth, competitiveness, and employment.

       A poor definition of objectives will undermine the focus of a DPO on development outcomes. Some of the
    DPO sub-objectives (on the CML and NBFI regulations) were inadequately defined by focusing on regulatory
    outputs, not on development outcomes. Furthermore, the limited scope of the indicators in the DPO (e.g.,
    selected Doing Business indicators), which reflected the limited scope of the reforms the DPO supported, was
    not well-tailored to the broad scope of the objectives (boosting competitiveness).

        Monitoring changes in investments in various financial instruments (pensions, capital market, non-bank
    institutions) will not indicate progress in the domestic savings rate. They may reflect portfolio shifts instead and
    include external sources of saving.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?
   A more detailed assessment of recent Development Policy Operations aiming to enance competitiveness and
   domestic savings in Turkey (including the operation under review and its immediate predecessor and successor)
   could shed light on the extent to which the operations followed consistent and common aims as well as their
   success in attaining the broader objectives of enhanced competitiveness and growth performance.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR is satisfactory, but barely so. It provides good coverage of the context for the operation and a detailed
    discussion of the limited outcomes. However, it could have given more attention to the expected medium term
    objectives related to enhanced competitiveness and savings, and reduced external vulnerabilities. It could have
    discussed Bank performance in more detail, especially during implementation. Similarly, it could have provided
    more detail on Government and implementing agency performance. Its analysis of M&E was weak, with little or
    no coverage of issues specific to the operation. The “lessons” drawn by the ICR read more like findings or
    recommendations, not lessons.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
