                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00003472


             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                              (LOAN NO IBRD-8264-TR)

                                        FOR

                        A COMPETITIVENESS AND SAVINGS

                        DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 624.1 MILLION

                          (US$800 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                            THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY


                                    June 25, 2014




Macroeconomics and Fiscal Management Global Practice
Turkey Country Unit (ECCU6)
Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
                                 GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1-December 31

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 22, 2014)
                               Currency Unit = New Turkish Lira (TL)
                                          US$1 = TL2.7
                                Weights and Measures: Metric system
                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA     Analytical and Advisory Work                     LDP    Letter of Development Policy
CBRT    Central Bank of Republic of Turkey               LFS    Labor Force Survey
CEM     Country Economic Memorandum                      MENA   Middle East and North Africa
CML     Capital Market Law                               MLSP   Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
CPL     Civil Procedure Law                              MOF    Ministry of Finance
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy                     MOH    Ministry of Health
CSDPL   Competitiveness and Savings                      MoU    Memorandum of Understanding
        Development Policy Loan                          NBFI   Non-bank Financial Institution
DPL     Development Policy Loan                          NDP    National Development Plan
DPO     Development Policy Operation                     NPL    Non-Performing Loan
EC      European Commission                              NTR    Non-Tax Revenues
ECA     Europe and Central Asia                          OECD   Organization for Economic Cooperation and
EU      European Union                                          Development
ESW     Economic and Sector Work                         PCL    Precautionary Credit Line
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment                        PDO    Program Development Objective
FIRST   Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening        PER    Public Expenditure Review
        Initiative                                       PIT    Personal Income Tax
FKB     Financial Institutions Association               PRO    Public Revenues Office
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program              SAO    State Audit Office
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                           SIC    Social Insurance Contribution Rate
HBS     Household Budget Survey                          SP     Social Protection
HCI     Health Care Institution                          SRA    Special Revenue Accounts
HIF     Health Insurance Fund                            SSGDPL Sustaining Shared Growth Development
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and               Policy Loan
        Development                                      SSI    Social Security Institution
ICRR    Implementation Completion and Results            SWC    Social Welfare Center
        Report                                           TSA    Treasury Single Account
IFC     International Finance Corporation                TA     Technical Assistance
IMF     International Monetary Fund                      TF     Trust Fund
IPA     Instrument for Pre-Accession                     VAT    Value Added Tax
ISA     Insurance Supervision Agency


                               Vice President:      Laura Tuck
                            Country Director:       Martin Raiser
                     Global Practice Director:      Marcelo Guigale
                     Global Practice Manager:       Ivailo Izvorski
                          Task Team Leader:         Marina Wes
                           ICR Team Leader:         Evgenij Najdov
                          THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
         COMPETITIVENESS AND SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION
                            (Loan No IBRD-82640-TR)

                                                           CONTENTS

Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring


1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................................1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................................7 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................................10 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..........................................................................22 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................................23 
6. Lessons Learned.........................................................................................................................24 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............................25 
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............................26 
Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ...............................................................................29 
Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).......................................................30 
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................................31 
Annex 5: Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................................36 
Annex 6: List of persons interviewed ............................................................................................37 
MAP

                                             List of Tables
Table 1: CSDPL Prior Actions ....................................................................................................... 6 
Table 2: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators (2010-2014) ......................................................... 12 


                                          List of Boxes
Box 1: Turkey’s Balance of Payments at-a-glance ......................................................................... 2 
Box 2: Turkey’s efforts to improve the business environment ..................................................... 13 
Box 3: Turkey’s business registry – using technology to reduce red-tape and costs ................... 15 
Box 4: SSI’s approach to better capturing incomes of professional groups ................................. 17 




                                                                     3
                                           DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                              Competitiveness and
Country:                 Turkey                     Program Name:             Savings Development
                                                                              Policy Loan (CSDPL)
Program ID:              P127787                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-82640
ICR Date:                06/23/2015                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:      DPL                        Borrower:
                                                                              TURKEY
Original Total
                         USD 800.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 823.56M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 800.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 The Republic of Turkey, Undersecretariat of Treasury
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                    Revised / Actual
      Process               Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:          01/15/2013      Effectiveness:             08/15/2013           07/16/2013
Appraisal:               03/11/2013      Restructuring(s):
Approval:                06/06/2013      Mid-term Review:
                                         Closing:                   06/30/2014           06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                 Ratings               Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:             Satisfactory     Government:                          Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision:       Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                              Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:




                                                    i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                 Rating:
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Program                            Quality at Entry
                           No                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Program at any                               Quality of Supervision
                            No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                        (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Capital markets                                                           16                      16
General industry and trade sector                                         34                      34
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                     17                      17
Other social services                                                     17                      17
SME Finance                                                               16                      16



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                     33                     33
Income Support for Old Age, Disability & Survivorship                      17                     17
Legal institutions for a market economy                                    33                     33
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                                 17                     17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:             Laura Tuck                              Laura Tuck
Country Director:           Martin Raiser                           Martin Raiser
Practice Manager/Manager: Ivailo V. Izvorski                        Ivailo V. Izvorski
Program Team Leader:        Evgenij Najdov                          Marina Wes
ICR Team Leader:            Evgenij Najdov
ICR Primary Author:         Evgenij Najdov




                                                     ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objective:

The Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan (CSDPL) was a stand-alone single
tranche Development Policy Loan (DPL), designed to support a program of actions to facilitate
Turkey’s growth to high-income status by bolstering competitiveness and boosting domestic
savings, thus reducing external vulnerabilities over the medium term.

Despite the medium-term nature of the program and its objectives, the Bank provided a stand-
alone operation. The exposure framework at the time of the operation did not allow a multi-year
programmatic engagement in Turkey. At the same time, the imminent preparation of a new
Development Plan could have resulted in a shift in some of the government’s priorities. Still, the
CSDPL was embedded in a set of complementary analytical and lending activities, and the
supported policy actions were both a continuation of policies supported under previous DPOs
and a precursor to subsequent ones. As part of such a broader engagement, the CSDPL’s more
immediate and direct objectives of higher investments and retirement savings as well as easier
access to finance complement the overall longer-term objective of facilitating growth to high-
income status through improved competitiveness and higher domestic savings.




                                               iii
(a) PDO Indicators

                                                       Original Target                            Actual Value
                                                                               Formally
                                        Baseline        Values (from                               Achieved at
             Indicator                                                          Revised
                                         Value            approval                                Completion or
                                                                             Target Values
                                                        documents)                                Target Years
                                      Security in investors’ investments is increased by increasing the Doing
Indicator 1 :
                                      Business sub-indicator on “Ease of shareholder suits” index from 4 to 5
Value (quantitative or qualitative)          4                  5                                           5
Date achieved                              2012                2013                                       2014
Comments (incl. % achievement)        Met.
                                      Security in investors’ investments is increased by increasing the Doing
Indicator 2 :
                                      Business sub-indicator on “Extent of director liability” index fr0m 4 to 5
Value (quantitative or qualitative)          4                  5                                           7
Date achieved                              2012                2013                                       2014
Comments (incl. % achievement)        Met.
Indicator 3 :                         Number of firms completing statutory independent audits increased
Value (quantitative or qualitative)        700                1,400                                       3,600
Date achieved                              2012                2013                                       2014
Comments (incl. % achievement)        Met.
Indicator 4 :                         Cost in attorney and court fees declines (as a share of debt value)
Value (quantitative or qualitative)      27.9%                24.9%                                      24.9%
Date achieved                              2012                2013                                       2013
                                      Met. While further improvements were expected, there is no indication that
Comments (incl. % achievement)
                                      these have materialized so far.
Indicator 5 :                         Reduction in the number of procedures to start a business
Value (quantitative or qualitative)          6                   5                                          7
Date achieved                              2012                2014                                       2014
Comments                              Not met. While one procedure was actually cut under the reform supported by
(incl. % achievement)                 the CSDPL, others were actually added as part of other regulatory acts.
Indicator 6 :                         Number of professional groups undergoing targeted audits increased
Value (quantitative or qualitative)          2                   4                                          4
Date achieved                              2012                2014                                       2014
Comments (incl. % achievement)        Met.
                                      Ratio of employees identified as unregistered to total number of employees in
Indicator 7 :
                                      the workplaces audited.
Value (quantitative or qualitative)         6%                  7%                                         7%
Date achieved                              2012                2014                                       2014
                                      The indicator (also referred to as the “recovery rate”) was expected to increase
                                      as a result of greater use of risk-based techniques by the SSI and improved
                                      ability to target and identify informal workers.
Comments (incl. % achievement)
                                      Baseline data has been revised up from 6% to 8.5% according to SSI data.
                                      While “recovery rate” has actually declined, the actual number of identified
                                      unregistered workers increased by 50%.
                                      Decline in total daily average charges as a share of daily fund accumulation (all
Indicator 8 :
                                      fees including administrative fees, fund management fees, entrance fees).
Value (quantitative or qualitative)        3.7%                3.5%                                       2.6%
Date achieved                              2012                2013                                       2014
                                      Met. The total charges declined to 2.8% in 2013 and further to 2.6% in 2014,
Comments (incl. % achievement)
                                      including due to introduction of legislation in early 2013 which capped the


                                                           iv
                                      amount of charges that pension funds can levy.
Indicator 9 :                         Decline in early exit rates (exit within first three years of contract)
Value (quantitative or qualitative)        21.2%               19%                                         11.8%
Date achieved                               2012               2013                                         2013
                                      Baseline data has been modified (from 21.2% to 12.6% for 2010-2012) due to
                                      changes in methodology and underlying data making comparison over time
                                      difficult. According to the old methodology, withdrawals within two months of
                                      signing were not considered in the number of terminated contracts. As of 2013,
Comments (incl. % achievement)
                                      these withdrawals are also included in the total exits. With the new
                                      methodology, the exit rate is 11.8% in 2011-2013 and 13.4% in 2012-2014.
                                      Excluding the withdrawals within two months, the exit rate is around 10% in
                                      both 2011-2013 and 2012-2014.
Indicator 10 :                        Volume of mutual funds (Assets under management-AUM, TL Billion)
Value (quantitative or qualitative)         30.2                33                                           35.4
Date achieved                           Nov. 2012              2013                                         2014
Comments (incl. % achievement)        Met.
Indicator 11 :                        Corporate bonds issued (TL Billion)
Value (quantitative or qualitative)          27                 35                                           68.5
Date achieved                           Nov.2012               2013                                         2014
Comments (incl. % achievement)        Met.
                                      Leasing Penetration Rate (Leasing Volume Except buildings/ Private Fixed
Indicator 12 :
                                      Investment Except Buildings)
Value (quantitative or qualitative)         4.7%               5.5%                                         6.2%
Date achieved                               2011               2013                                       Mid-2013
Comments (incl. % achievement)        Met.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
Not applicable
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
One Implementation Status Report (ISR) was filed for this operation in October 2013 and was
archived in November 2013. The ISR rated both, the progress towards achievement of the PDO
as well as the overall implementation progress, as satisfactory.
H. Restructuring
Not applicable




                                                          v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

The Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan (CSDPL) was requested by the
Government of Turkey at a time when economic activity began to moderate following
exceptionally strong growth in 2010 and 2011 when the economy rebounded from the impact of
the global financial crisis. While strong growth preceding the global financial crisis and in its
aftermath helped to reduce unemployment and to improve living conditions, it was also
accompanied by growing macroeconomic imbalances. Inflation picked up, the current account
deficit widened and the reliance on short-term financing increased. This triggered a policy-
reaction by the authorities aimed at increasing the potential growth rate of the economy while
minimizing threats over macroeconomic stability, with improved competitiveness and higher
savings being identified as critical ingredients of the policy agenda.

Turkey’s economy performed well since 2001 allowing it to make significant gains in income
levels. After a banking crisis in 2001, Turkey embarked on a path of structural reform supported
by fiscal consolidation, strengthened banking supervision, a reform of the social security system,
and a shift to a flexible exchange rate regime with a more independent central bank responsible
for inflation targeting. Per-capita income subsequently almost tripled in less than a decade as
rising confidence spurred demand. Stronger fundamentals also allowed Turkey to bounce back
strongly and relatively fast following the initial impact of the 2008-09 global financial crisis.
Consequently, Turkey, with population of almost 75 million1, is now an upper-middle-income
country with the world’s 17th largest economy.2 Social indicators have also improved as a result
of economic growth and improved public service delivery, including increased access to
education and health services. The country’s future goals are equally ambitious.

However, strong growth and domestic demand led to deterioration in the external and internal
balances, requiring policy tightening and a deceleration in growth to contain. The Turkish
economy had grown by 9 percent on average during 2010 and 2011 with the current account
deficit increasing to 9.7 percent of GDP, the highest level recorded in recent decades and up
from 4.5 percent on average during the 2008-2010 period. Such rates are considerably above a
sustainability benchmark for the current account deficit for Turkey in the range of 3 to 5.5
percent of GDP estimated by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(Rohn, 2012). Similarly, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated that the economy can
grow at around 2.5-3.5 percent per annum without widening the current account deficit (IMF,
2013). At the same time, both headline inflation (at 10.4 percent in 2011) and core inflation
exceeded targets of the Central Bank of Republic of Turkey (CBRT), at least partly due to strong
domestic demand, triggering fears of overheating of the economy. Tightening of monetary and
financial conditions starting from the second half of 2011 appeared to have had some success in
containing demand and imports helping inflation moderate to 6.2 percent in 2012. Combined
with some export diversification away from traditional EU markets towards the Middle East and


1
  World Development Indicators, data for 2013. According to national statistics data, Turkey’s population in 2014
was approximately 77.7 million.
2
  According to the 2013 GDP ranking in the IMF’s World Economic Outlook Database.

                                                         1
North Africa (MENA) and high net gold exports3 the current account deficit declined to 6.2
percent of GDP in 2012. However, growth slowed down to 2.1 percent only. In addition, some of
the adjustment came from a decline in investment rather than from a needed increase in savings.

    Box 1: Turkey’s Balance of Payments at-a-glance
    The largest component of the Turkish current account, and one that contributes most to the current
    account deficit, is the merchandise account. Turkey’s performance in merchandise exports since 2002
    has been strong as business environment reforms and upgrades in infrastructure and connectivity
    improved the country’s competitiveness. Exports growth in Turkey outperformed the average global
    growth of exports by more than six percentage points with growing diversification of both markets
    and products mix. EU remains the main export destination, though markets in the Middle East and
    North Africa have been gaining importance. More importantly, the strong trade relation with the EU
    allows Turkey access to technology and market access facilitating the move towards more capital and
    institutions-intensive exports. However, there is strong interdependence between exports and imports
    reflecting Turkey dependence on imports of energy and intermediary inputs for production (Princeton
    University; Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, 2012) resulting in a sizeable
    deficit. Similar to the merchandise account, Turkey runs a deficit on its income account reflecting
    largely interest payment on assets held by non-residents. On the other hand, the country traditionally
    runs surpluses on its services and transfers accounts. The surplus on services is at least partly due to
    the country’s sizeable tourism sector while transfers are mostly related to the country’s diaspora

    On the financing side, Turkey has been able to attract some foreign direct investment (FDI); however,
    at around 1.6 percent of GDP on average during 2012-2014, these inflows have been insufficient to
    cover the financing needs resulting in growing reliance on debt financing. Taking advantage of the
    country’s open capital account and the interest rate differentials, Turkey has not had problems
    securing financing, though a significant part of these inflows tend to be short-term and could easily be
    reversed. While portfolio and short-term inflows covered only a small share of the financing needs
    during 2007 and 2008, they exceeded FDI and long-term inflows between 2010 and 2013. FDI and
    long-term inflows appear to have recovered since; however, short-term inflows still remain above pre-
    2010 levels. Attracting greater amounts of FDI would require further improvements in Turkey’s
    business environment.
    Source: Largely drawn from “Turkey CEM: Trading up to higher Income” (World Bank, 2014).


The strong correlation between growth and external and domestic imbalances is indicative of
some of the country’s biggest constraints to achieving higher and sustainable growth and high-
income status over the medium-term, including weaknesses across a range of competitiveness
pillars, significant informality as well as low domestic savings. On the other hand, it is unclear if
the Turkish economy can create sufficient jobs with more modest growth rates of its economy of
around 3 percent. Various surveys (see below) provide a picture of an economy with significant
red-tape but also inadequate enforcement resulting in informality and limited firm growth.
According to the 2014 Global Competitiveness Report (World Economic Forum, 2014),
inefficient government bureaucracy is the most problematic factor for doing business in Turkey,
keeping compliance costs high. For example, Turkey was ranked 55th in Doing Business 2015
rankings; however its performance on dealing with construction permits, resolving insolvency
and trading across border suggests that obstacles remain significant. Also, foreign direct

3
    Most of the gold exported was obtained by drawing down inventories rather than via gold imports; this led to a
    gold surplus in excess of US5.7 billion, a one-off occurrence.

                                                            2
investment (FDI) inflow was only 1.7 percent of GDP in 2012, below the average of 2.2 percent
of GDP for G-20 emerging market peers. At the same time, gradual improvements in
government effectiveness appear to have helped reduce informality somewhat, though it still
remains high.4 Between 2003 and 2013, Turkey’s score on the government effectiveness
indicators of the Worldwide Governance Indicators improved from 60 to 66 which may have
contributed to a decline in the ratio of informal workers to total employment from around 50
percent to around 35 percent of employment by 2014.5 Still, it remains high posing a potential
growth constraint.

Domestic savings dived from an average of 23.8 percent of GDP during the 1990s to around 14
percent of GDP in 2010-11. The decline was driven by lower private sector savings as rising
confidence, lower interest rates and improved access to credit spurred consumption demand. The
lack of diversified financial instruments may also have discouraged households from placing
their savings with the financial system. According to the 2011 Country Economic Memorandum
on savings (World Bank, 2011), income and education levels are important determinants of
households’ decisions to save; however, supply side and institutional interventions can help
create an enabling environment. Sound macroeconomic policies are important to safeguard
sustainability, control excessive credit growth and ensure a competitive exchange rate and should
be complemented with policies to increase the available instruments to save and to raise
awareness.6 Finally, while higher savings will help deepen the financial markets over the
medium-term, weaknesses in the regulatory environment for non-bank financial institutions
(NBFIs) contributed to keeping the sector relatively small.

In response, the authorities focused on making the Turkish economy more competitive and
increasing national savings. They adopted ambitious long-term development goals and
comprehensive medium-term programs to modernize the economy, in which improving firm
productivity, competitiveness and savings are important priorities. Turkey intends to be one of
the world’s ten largest economies by 2023 with GDP per capita of US$25,000 and exports of
more than US$500 billion. “Increasing competitiveness” was the first pillar of the government’s
ninth National Development Plan for 2008-2013 and subsequent medium-term programs of the
government while “enhancing competitiveness and boosting productivity” are key priorities of
the tenth National Development Plan for 2014-2018 adopted in July 2013.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The CSDPL, and development policy lending more broadly, is
an important component to the Bank’s engagement in Turkey. The program supported by the
CSDPL is anchored in the FY12-15 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) approved by the World
Bank’s Executive Board on March 27, 2012. The activities supported by the CSDPL advance the
following CPS outcomes under the strategic objective of enhanced competitiveness and
employment: (i) sustained macroeconomic and financial stability and strengthened exports,
domestic savings, and external resilience; and (ii) improved investment and business climate;

4
  In 2013, Turkey scored 66 on the Worldwide Governance Indicator of government effectiveness, compared to an
upper-middle income countries average of 52 and a high-income OECD countries average of 87.
5
  Exact comparisons of informal employment are not possible due to a change in the methodology in early 2014.
6
  In June 2014, the authorities launched the National Financial Inclusion Strategy which aims to increase financial
literacy of consumers and promote savings in the medium term. In addition, according to the 2014 World Bank
Findex database, the share of the population aged 15 and above that saved at a financial institution increased from
4.2 percent in 2011 to 9.1 percent in 2014.

                                                         3
deepened and broadened access to finance. Furthermore, the instrument choice is also important
as it provides access to long-term budget financing and is aligned with the objective to reduce
reliance on short-term inflows.

The Bank was also well placed to support the Government’s efforts. First, The CSDPL was a
natural continuation of the IBRD’s lending engagement in Turkey. This operation deepened the
structural reform agenda supported under the First and Second Competitiveness and
Employment Development Policy Loans (CEDPL 1 and 2) series, and Restoring Equitable
Growth and Employment Developing Policy Loan (REGE DPL) series, through a follow up on
the efforts to improve investment climate and enterprise governance, inter alia, through the
Commercial Code, the new Civil Procedures Law (CPL) and the new Capital Market Law
(CML). Second, the Bank had recently completed considerable analytical work, including
Country Economic Memorandums covering informality and savings which informed the reforms
pursued by the government.

The operation focused on two policy areas and contained eight prior actions aimed at (i)
bolstering competitiveness via an improved business environment and better governance; and (ii)
boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector. While Turkey’s challenges
towards high-income status are complex and multi-faceted, specific actions supported reflected
the government’s ownership of the program and the team’s assessment of areas that required
attention and if implemented could have a meaningful impact and provide an opportunity to scale
up the engagement. At the same time, the authorities also have an active agenda to try to address
other constraints to competitiveness and savings, in some cases with World Bank support,
including through DPO-supported labor markets reforms, policy dialogue in education and
health, investment operations in energy, support to small and medium size enterprises etc.

While designed as a single tranche stand-alone operation, the CSDPL was embedded in a
programmatic framework and a medium-term agenda as part of the policy dialog under
subsequent DPOs in the context of the tenth National Development Plan.

The Bank maintains a close working relationship with the IMF. The authorities have not had an
arrangement with the IMF since 2008, reflecting also the country’s improved macroeconomic
fundamentals. Policy discussions are largely taking place in the framework of the regular annual
Article IV consultations with the authorities. The public information notice for the 2012 Article
IV Consultation, included in the CSDPL program document, noted the moderation in economic
activity and the associated adjustment in the external imbalance and inflationary pressures. It
also noted that vulnerabilities remain from reliance on short-term inflows and that inflation
remained above target levels. On the structural side, the IMF assessment supported the view that
domestic savings had declined and that improvements are needed in competitiveness and the
business climate.

Similarly, the European Commission (EC) and the World Bank launched an initiative in 2010
seeking to increase opportunities for synergies in working with the Turkish authorities. Areas of
close collaboration include the business climate and foreign trade (including measures that were
supported by the CSDPL and ensured alignment of critical legislation with EU practice) as well
as energy reforms and female employment.


                                               4
1.2       Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved):
The development objective of the Government’s program supported by the CSDPL was to
facilitate Turkey’s growth to high-income status by bolstering competitiveness and boosting
domestic savings, thus reducing external vulnerability over the medium term. The key indicators,
as presented in the PD, were:

Pillar 1: Bolstering competitiveness via an improved business environment and better
governance
The DPO supported measures to enhance reporting and disclosure requirements and strengthen
corporate governance. The key indicators for this PDO were:
         Increase in Doing Business sub-indicators related to Ease of Shareholder Suits index and
          to Extent of Director Liability index from 4 to 5.
         Increase in the number of firms completing statutory independent audits from a baseline
          of 700 to a target to 1,400.
The program also supported measures to reduce costs of starting and operating a business. The
indicators to evaluate progress in this area were:
         Reduction in the number of procedures to start a business from 6 to 5; and
         Reduction in the (attorney and court) costs of enforcing contracts from a baseline of 27.9
          percent of the debt value to 24.9 percent.
The operation also included measures aimed at reducing informality to help create a level
playing field among firms with the following indicators:
         Increasing the number of professional groups undergoing targeted audit by the Social
          Security Institution (SSI) from 2 to 4; and
         Improving risk-based practices in the SSI resulting in increase in the ratio of employees
          identified as unregistered to total number of employees in the workplaces audited from a
          baseline of 6 percent to 7 percent.

Pillar 2: Boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector
The DPO supported efforts to boost domestic savings by restructuring the private pension
scheme. The key indicators for this operation were:
         Reduction in the total daily average charges applied by pension funds from 3.7 percent of
          daily fund accumulation to 3.5 percent; and
         Decline in the early exit rates (within three years of contract) from 21.2 percent to 19
          percent.
Laying a comprehensive and sound modern basis for the regulation of capital markets is
expected to help deepen the financial sector, with progress measured using the following
indicators:
         Increase in the volume of assets under management in mutual funds from TL 30.2 billion
          to TL 33 billion; and




                                                  5
         Increase in the value of corporate bonds issued from TL 27 billion to TL 35 billion.7
The program also supported enhancement of the regulatory landscape for promotion of non-bank
financial institutions. The indicator for this objective was:
         Increase in the leasing penetration rate with the percent of private fixed investments
          (excluding buildings) financed through leasing increasing from a baseline of 4.7 percent
          in 2011 to 5.5 percent.
As noted in following sections of the report, the baseline for some of the results was modified
due to changes in the methodology or the data underlying the indicators.

1.3       Revised PDOs and Key Indicators

There were no revisions to the PDO and key indicators, though the baseline for some indicators
was revised.

1.4       Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The policy areas supported by the CSDPL1 were grouped into two “pillars”, containing the
following prior actions:

         Bolstering competitiveness via an improved business environment and better
          governance, through: i) issuing critical secondary regulations to implement the
          Commercial Code; ii) implementation of the requirement of the Civil Procedure Law
          (CPL) for preliminary investigation before court hearings to speed court proceedings iii)
          simplifying business registration; and iv) reducing informal employment through
          increased number of social security institution audits and using risk-based auditing.

         Boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector, through: i)
          restructuring the private pension scheme; ii) enactment of a new leasing, factoring and
          financing companies legislation; and iii) enactment of a new Capital Market Law (CML).

Table 1: CSDPL Prior Actions
                         Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan
List prior actions from Program Document                                                                 Status
    Pillar I: Bolstering competitiveness via an improved business environment and
                                     better governance
Critical secondary regulations to implement the Commercial Code have been issued,                       Fulfilled
including legislation on the trade registry system, scope of independent audits, minimum
requirements for annual activity reports, rules and procedures for undertaking general
assembly meetings and the electronic general assembly system.
Progress in improving the investment climate, through:
• issuance of critical secondary legislation to ensure full implementation of the Civil                 Fulfilled

7
 Baseline and target value identified during the preparation of the CSDPL were based on interim data rather than
end of year figures. According to the Central Registry Agency, actual end of year data for corporate bond issuances
are TL44.4 billion, TL57.9 billion and TL68.5 billion TL for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The terms
corporate bonds and private sector bonds are used interchangeably in this report.

                                                         6
Procedure Law, including establishing a procedure for carrying out preliminary
investigations before court hearings, thereby speeding up court proceedings; and
• issuance of a circular to simplify the registration of businesses.                        Fulfilled
Further actions taken to reduce informal employment through:
• increases in the number of Social Security Institution (SSI) auditors to over 1,350 in    Fulfilled
December 2012; and,
• use of risk-based auditing, including the establishment in May 2012 of a Risk Analysis    Fulfilled
Unit within the SSI.
        Pillar II: Boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector
Enactment of a law amending the private pension law which aims to improve incentives        Fulfilled
for voluntary retirement savings; thus, making savings longer term, following the
issuance of private pension implementing regulations by the Undersecretariat of
Treasury.
Enactment of a new CML, which aims to make capital markets deeper, more competitive         Fulfilled
and transparent.
Enactment of a Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law, which aims to                Fulfilled
contribute to the growth of the NBFIs sector and to improve access to finance, especially
for SMEs.

The CSDPL was a single-tranche stand-alone operation and all prior actions were met before the
loan was submitted to the Board. Still, the CSDPL built on the engagement under previous
DPOs and the agenda in number of areas was picked-up by later DPOs.

The CSDPL PD also notes that at the time of CPS preparation, it was envisaged that the DPL
would support the implementation of the National Employment Strategy; however, the
authorities had decided to instead prioritize measures related to raising domestic savings and
improving the investment climate. The Employment Strategy was reintroduced in the DPL-
policy dialogue under the next series.

1.5     Revised Policy Areas:

Not applicable

1.6     Other significant changes:

Not applicable

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Program Performance:

The CSDPL focused on addressing key structural issues related to Turkey’s medium and long-
term development agenda. Some of the program represented a continuation of the measures
supported under the earlier development policy operations, including supporting the reform-
agenda on tackling informality through social security insurance and implementation of key
legislation affecting the business environment such as the Civil Procedure Law and the
Commercial Code. In addition, the agenda on increasing domestic savings was introduced

                                                    7
reflecting recent World Bank analytical work on the topic as well as the commitment of the
authorities after seeing the external account widen significantly in the aftermath of the global
financial crisis. Similarly, the financial and capital markets agenda was introduced reflecting the
close engagement between the Bank and the authorities on the issue and the government’s
recognition of its importance. In its final form, the program supported by the CSDPL contained
eight prior actions focusing on the two policy areas and was implemented timely and effectively.

The CSDPL was approved on June 6, 2013 on the basis of prior actions implemented during the
course of 2012 and 2013. The Loan Agreement with the World Bank was signed on June 7,
2013. The operation was declared effective on July 16, 2013 and the Euro 624.1 million loan
amount was withdrawn in a single tranche on July 25, 2013. The CSDPL was one of the larger
DPO operations of the Bank in Turkey, second only to the US$1.3 billion First Restoring
Equitable Growth and Employment DPL provided in the aftermath of the 2008-2009 global
financial crisis. While the financing provided by the CSDPL (and Bank DPLs in general) is
modest (around one percent of the public sector’s annual gross financing needs), the demand
from the client could reflect the financial characteristics of the instrument (long-term and
relatively low-cost), but also the benefits of partnering with the Bank in coordinating and
pushing through a multi-sector reform agenda.

2.2    Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Overall, the implementation of the CSDPL went as planned. The ICR team has identified the
following factors as most important: i) close alignment between the CSDPL objectives and the
Government priorities; ii) extensive analytical underpinning; iii) strong cooperation and
confidence between the Bank and the Government team and iv) inclusiveness in the program
design.

Alignment with government priorities: The vision of the country’s ninth development plan of
“Turkey, a country of information society, growing in stability, sharing more equitably, globally
competitive and fully coherent with the European Union” was closely transposed into the CSDPL
objectives of bolstering competitiveness, including by adopting EU-compliant practices, and
increasing domestic savings. The objectives of sound and sustainable growth, increased domestic
savings and reduced current account deficit, higher private investment and exports and improved
competitiveness were further articulated in the Medium Term Programmes for 2011-2013 and
2012-2014 guiding the government’s efforts at the time of CSDPL preparation. Furthermore, the
tenth development plan aims, among other things, to reduce the current account deficit to a
reasonable permanent level, lower informality and increase public savings, all areas that are
related to the CSDPL-supported agenda.

Extensive analytical underpinning: Similar to other ICRs, this report also concludes that the rich
analytical portfolio of the Bank in Turkey, in priority areas such as investment climate,
informality, savings, financial sector, was important in ensuring effective implementation of the
CSDPL. Key analytical pieces (corporate bond review, CEMs on savings and informality) were
undertaken jointly with government agencies thus increasing the ownership of the reform
agenda.



                                                8
Cooperation, confidence and continuity of engagement: The CSDPL followed on the successful
engagement between the Bank and the Government of Turkey going back an extended period of
time, including two series of programmatic Development Policy Operations since 2006. During
this period, the Bank demonstrated capacity to respond timely and in a flexible manner to the
emerging priorities of the authorities. At the same time, the capacity of the implementing agency,
the Undersecretariat of Treasury, to coordinate the broader public sector on the CSDPL agenda
was adequate, reflecting their extensive experience in implementation of DPLs.

Inclusiveness in program design. The ICR team was informed on at least a few occasions that
one of the critical aspects behind the success of the program has been the inclusiveness in the
design of the program. For example, the new Law on Leasing, Factoring and Financing
Companies was drafted in close consultation with representatives of the industry allowing the
non-bank financial institutions to give their views and adapt better to the new requirements.
Similarly, the SSI efforts to involve various stakeholders were critical to the success of the
reforms efforts to tackle informality.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) systems in Turkey, in general, are still evolving.
Individual ministries and institutions are making progress in developing their M&E systems;
however, these tend to operate separately and are not always linked to the broader Government
development agenda. This issue was identified in the CSDPL program document noting that
Turkey was included in a regional technical assistance activity aimed at supporting institutional
capacity for M&E strategy implementation. However, according to the final project report for
this activity, Turkey opted to limit the participation to taking part in workshops and presentations
but not receiving country specific technical assistance (World Bank, 2014). The authorities still
have some way to go before having a coherent system of integrating the data for overall policy
formulation and implementation.

More specific to the CSDPL, the Undersecretariat of Treasury was responsible for coordinating
actions among the number of agencies involved in the program. Similar to the findings of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the earlier DPO series, this report did not detect a
systematic monitoring of outcomes across the actions supported by the CSDPL. This was, to a
considerable degree, mitigated by the ability of the task team to design a results matrix that was
substantial, relevant and achievable. The number of indicators to measure results may be
considered somewhat high given the number of prior actions; however, this also reflects the fact
that the CSDPL was embedded in a programmatic longer-term DPO engagement with some
expected results capturing efforts from earlier (strength of investor protection; value of leasing
assets; reliable judicial system) and subsequent DPOs (corporate bond issuance).

The implementation experience shows variable capacity among institutions. For example, while
it was relatively straightforward to monitor developments in the broader financial sector relying
on the information infrastructure of the financial sector regulator, it was less so in the part of the
program covered by the Social Security Institution or Public Oversight Authority. The use of
external sources partially mitigated the lack of a coordinated national information infrastructure.
However, going forward, improved information systems and a stronger coordinating function
would be desirable.

                                                  9
2.4     Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

As noted earlier, even though it supported a medium-term agenda, the CSDPL was designed as a
single-tranche operation due to Bank’s policy on country exposure limits as well as the
Government’s ongoing strategizing process as part of the of preparation of the 10th Development
Plan. Once these issues were resolved, the Bank and the authorities launched a new
programmatic series of two development policy operations; the Sustaining Shared Growth DPL
(SSGDPL). The first operation of the new series was approved by the Executive Board of the
World Bank in July 2014. In continuing to advance the CSDPL agenda, the SSGDPL supported
further steps to implement the Commercial Code (the rolling out of the Central Registry and
adoption of auditing standards), to deepen the financial market (implementing secondary
legislation for the functioning of capital markets and operations of leasing, factoring and
financing companies) and to strengthen the credit information system.

The broader CSDPL agenda is also supported under the Bank’s investment projects on access to
finance and deepening of the financial sector. The Governance Technical Assistance activity is
providing support to the Public Oversight Authority to improve its capacity in executing its
oversight role. The Bank is also implementing a grant from the Financial Sector Reform and
Strengthening Initiative (FIRST) to assist in enhancing the regulation, supervision and coverage
of private pensions aiming to contribute to a sustainable and efficient pension system. The
objective of the Financial Inclusion and Financial Deepening technical assistance is to broaden
and deepen the financial sector by providing support for improving the legal framework in micro
finance, capital markets, financial inclusion and bankruptcy. Building on the engagement related
to the assessment of the capital markets development and in context of the Capital Markets Deep
Dive Initiative (DDI)8 an action plan for further developing the capital markets has been
developed. IFC has an extensive engagement in areas related to deepening of financial markets,
including as participating as an anchor investor in the bond market debuts of Sisecam and Mersin
International Port, which was the first infrastructure bond in Turkey. Also, the Bank continues to
have a robust portfolio of analytical and advisory activities on trade, labor, business environment
and investments issues related to the competitiveness and domestic savings agenda.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

The ICR team believes that a few considerations are important and should be taken into
consideration when evaluating the CSDPL.

Turkey is a relatively large country, a functioning democracy with a vibrant political debate and
eager to establish its global footprint. It is also an upper middle-income country and its civil
service is increasingly able to design and implement policies, though this appears to be limited to
some sectors for the time being. Turkey achieved a lot over the last 15 years and in doing so it
embraced global experience and good practice in number of areas but also followed its own
model on many aspects. Hence, evaluating each activity needs to take into consideration its
contribution to the overall country program, including on establishing a policy dialogue in

8
 The World Bank Group Deep Dive Initiative (DDI) is a multipronged integrated approach that brings together
WBG expertise on capital markets development with sector expertise to ensure that capital markets interventions are
aligned with the specific needs of the relevant sector (e.g. infrastructure).

                                                        10
number of areas, maintaining the role of “partner of choice” for the World Bank and getting an
opportunity to learn from the Turkish experience. The CSDPL appears to have facilitated a
greater role for the Bank in the policy dialogue in some key areas, including the commercial
code, financial and capital markets and private pensions (see section 2.4 above for specific
examples where the CSDPL engagement facilitated greater engagement in sector policies).

Also, while being designed as a stand-alone single tranche operation, in essence the CSDPL
represents a natural continuation of the reforms supported under the earlier DPO series and some
of the CSDPL agenda continues to be supported by the Sustaining Shared Growth DPO series.
While this ensures that reforms are supported through the entire cycle (from enacting the
legislation, through adopting the secondary legislation and finally actual implementation), it also
means that the full development objectives will only be realized once the entire process is
completed.

Finally, the environment in which this ICR is evaluating the performance of the CSDPL is
somewhat different from the one envisioned at the time of preparation of the operation affecting
economic developments as well as the institutional and policy environment. Economically, the
global crisis was more severe than could have been expected, especially in some of Turkey’s
main trading partners in the European Union. A “new mediocre” growth appears to have been set
globally, affecting the prospects for developing countries. Politically, a prolonged electoral cycle
has led to significant uncertainty, while mounting domestic as well as regional tensions have
made for a more challenging environment than envisaged at appraisal.

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

The CSDPL had clear and relevant objective – to support Turkey’s growth to high income status
by bolstering competitiveness and boosting domestic savings. The objective and policy areas
were clearly embedded in the Government’s strategy. Furthermore, competitiveness issues and
low domestic savings were identified as critical bottlenecks in analytical outputs by the World
Bank, but also other development partners, including the IMF.

In general, the project design was relevant: the prior actions were linked to the objectives of the
operation and the expected results reflected outcomes of the proposed measures. The design of
the operation was relatively straightforward; focusing on two reform areas linked to the
Government’s ongoing reform program and contained eight prior actions. Still, the program
would probably have been robust even in a more constrained format. For example, related to
starting a business, while indeed important for the operating environment for firms, the focus on
cutting a procedure could have been better justified given that Turkey’s performance was not
much worse on procedures compared to peers, but more on costs of procedures and paid-in
capital. Furthermore, the role of the World Bank in promoting parts of the program (for example,
Civil Procedure Law implementation), could have been better articulated. The ICR team
concludes that the design remains satisfactory.

Implementation arrangements were adequate. The CSDPL was quickly processed and
represented a continuation of the Bank’s engagement, building on efficient cooperation

                                                11
arrangements between the Bank and the authorities and helped enhance the basis for future
policy dialogue.

3.2      Achievement of Program Development Objectives:

The CSDPL objective was to support Turkey’s growth to high income status by promoting
policies and reforms to improve competitiveness and increase domestic savings. As discussed
below, the results anticipated in the CSDPL program document were largely met; though,
ensuring that the overall objective of the operation is achieved will depend on reforms currently
ongoing, including those supported by World Bank DPLs, as well as reforms in a broader set of
policy areas. In addition, a combination of subdued economic confidence domestically and weak
global conditions resulted in economic performance falling short of expectations at the time of
preparation of the CSDPL and a prolonged period of mediocre growth could be an additional
challenge on Turkey’s development path. GDP expanded by 4.2 percent in 2013 and only 2.9
percent in 2014, a slight acceleration compared to 2012 when output expanded by 2.1 percent
but below the 5.5 percent of GDP average during the decade between 2002 and 2011.
Weakening business confidence affected investments while luckluster performance of Turkey’s
main trading partners and the tapering off of the exceptionally loose monetary policy in the USA
affected the external environment. Slower growth reduced threats to macroeconomic stability as
weaker demand and a lower energy bill as a result of falling oil prices narrowed the current
account deficit.9 Similarly, inflation declined, though it continued to exceed the target of CBRT.

                         Table 2: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators (2010-2014)
                                                            2010       2011     2012      2013      2014
            National Accounts
              Real GDP Growth (%)                                9.2     8.8       2.1       4.2       2.9
              Investment (% of GDP)                             18.9    21.8      20.3      20.3      20.1
              Domestic savings (% of GDP)                       12.7    12.1      14.1      12.4      13.9
            Fiscal Accounts (% of GDP)
              Revenues                                          35.1    36.1      37.4      39.1      38.5
              Expenditures                                      38.5    36.8      38.8      40.7      39.8
              Fiscal Balance                                    -3.4    -0.7      -1.5      -1.6      -1.4
              Government Debt                                   42.3    39.1      36.2      36.1      33.5
            External Accounts (% of GDP)
              Exports of Goods and Services                     21.5     23.7     26.1      25.3      27.4
              Imports of Goods and Services                     26.9     32.6     31.6      32.3      32.2
              Current Account Balance                           -6.2     -9.7     -6.2      -7.9      -5.8
              FDI                                                1.0      1.8      1.2       1.1       0.7
              Official Reserves (Months of Imports)              5.6      4.4      6.1       6.2       6.3
            External Debt
              Gross External Debt (% of GDP)                    39.9    39.3      43.1      47.3      50.3
            Consumer Prices (e-o-p)                              6.4    10.4       6.2       7.4       8.2
            Source: Ministry of Finance, CBRT and Turkstat, World Bank staff.


The medium-term projections for the growth rate of the economy have also been reduced to
around 3.5 percent, down from around 5 percent at time of CSDPL preparation, making it

9
 According to Bank estimates, other things equal, a 10 percent reduction in oil prices could result into a 0.4
percentage points of GDP improvement in the current account.

                                                           12
unclear if sufficient jobs can be created for the rapidly rising labor force. With growth
moderating to around 3-4 percent during 2013-2014, the unemployment rate already increased
from 8.4 percent in 2012 to 9.9 percent in 2014. While Turkey’s macroeconomic prospects
appear sustainable; the CSDPL agenda to increase competitiveness and savings to support higher
investment, productivity and jobs may become even more important components of the emerging
growth model.

Pillar 1: Bolstering competitiveness via an improved business environment and better
governance

Rating: Satisfactory

The business environment in Turkey improved slightly parallel to the implementation of
measures supported by the CSDPL. However, the full impact of the reforms will only be visible
if, and when the reforms are completely implemented. In addition, these need to be
complemented by reforms on other pillars of competitiveness.

The main focus of the reforms under this pillar was on: i) implementing the Commercial Code;
ii) improving the investments climate and iii) reducing informality.
Box 2: Turkey’s efforts to improve the business environment
Improving the business environment has been a priority for the authorities for more than a decade. Some
of the main pillars of the reform agenda include the new FDI law enacted in 2003, the establishment of
the Investment Support and Promotion Agency in 2006 and the reform of the commercial code in 2012. In
addition, the authorities announced a new action plan in November 2014 aimed at improving the business
environment.

More specifically, under the new FDI law, foreign investors were given national treatment; the rights to
acquire real estate, employ foreign staff and access international dispute resolution and guarantee to free
transfer of proceeds, dividends and other financial assets. In addition, the Investment Support and
Promotion Agency, established in 2006 under the Prime Minister’s Office, provides one-stop shop
services to interested investors. In the same year, the corporate income tax was reduced to 20 perent. The
new Commercial Code, adopted in 2012, is an important part of the government’s agenda. It promotes the
use of international standards, strenghtens transparency and accountability and introduces number of
novelties in management of companies. The 2015-2018 Action Plan for the improvement of the business
investment proposed measures to reduce bureaucratic and judicial processes; to facilitate access to
investment land and to improve governance in relations with the private sector.


Implementing the Commercial Code

The new Commercial Code of the Republic of Turkey came into effect on July 1, 2012. The new
code replaced a legislative framework established in 1956 and inadequate to the standards of
today’s Turkish economy. The new commercial code introduced greater transparency and
accountability and introduced novelties in terms of incorporation and commercial sector
activities (including regulating electronic commerce) as well as aligning the provision in some
areas with EU norms and good international standards. Adoption of the Law was supported by
the earlier DPL series, while the CSDPL focused on the secondary legislation related to the trade
registry system (Central Registration System - MERSIS), scope for independent audits,

                                                    13
minimum requirement for annual activity reports, rules and procedures for undertaking general
assembly meetings and the electronic general assembly system.

This ICR concludes that the implementation of the new commercial code continues to improve
the business environment, though it may be few years before the full benefits of the reform are
visible, as appropriately noted in the CSDPL PD. The trade registry became fully operational by
early 2014, an action that was supported under the follow-up series of development policy
operations. The setting-up of the registry will allow for more efficient and less costly
administrative and commercial procedures (see Box 3). The new legal framework allows holding
general assembly session online (via web-cast) rather than requesting foreign board members to
be physically present.

The new Commercial Code promotes the use of internationally compliant accounting and audit
standards, an important agenda for the closer economic integration of the country. The World
Bank reviewed compliance with EU requirements in the areas of accounting and auditing
standards, definition of public interest companies and public oversight and audit scope and the
engagement helped cultivate a deeper policy dialogue with the Public Oversight Authority. The
new Commercial Code abolished the requirement for a Board of Auditors for corporations
replacing this with a requirement for statutory audits by independent auditors or auditing firms
while extending significantly the coverage of companies covered. Beyond the CSDPL-agenda,
the Public Oversight Authority, established in 2011 to deal with the implementation of the
accounting and auditing provisions of the new Commercial Code, has been publishing the new
accounting and auditing standards, in line with the International Financial Reporting Standards
and International Audit Standards.

Specifically to the expected outcomes of the CSDPL, the operation expected to enhance
reporting and disclosure requirement and strengthen corporate governance. The improved
investor protection stemming from increased director liability and more empowered
shareholders' rights was expected to increase investment. The targeted improvement in the sub-
indicator “extent of director liability” of the Doing Business indicator on Protecting Minority
Investors (from 4 to 5) was met as director’s liability for self-dealing was expanded. The sub-
indicator “ease of shareholder suits” reached 7 by 2014, exceeding the target from the CSDPL
PD as secondary legislation No.6102 allows each shareholder to present a resolution requesting
the investigation of a specific transaction they believe to be fraudulent to be investigated at the
general shareholders meeting. If such request is not accepted at the shareholders meeting,
shareholders owning 10 percent or more of the company (for listed companies 5 percent or more
of the company) can request that commercial courts appoint an independent inspector to look
into the transaction, improving shareholder rights. Furthermore, with the 2014 amendments to
the regulatory framework, around 2,500 companies were subject to statutory independent audits,
which has been increased further to around 4,600 companies with changes introduced in early
2015. According to information from the Public Oversight Authority, around 3,600 companies
were audited in 2014, thus exceeding the target of 1,400 for the CSDPL.

There was a risk identified at the time of CSDPL preparation that the enhanced requirements
stipulated in the new commercial code and the decree on the coverage of the independent audit
may stretch the available audit capacity but also increase costs, especially for the smaller
companies. According to the authorities a sufficient number of auditors are available and have

                                                14
been certified (7,488 auditors and 106 audit firms as of April 2014). In addition, a process has
been set-up through the Ministry of National Education to ensure continued certifications. Also,
the authorities are providing a cheaper and less demanding option for SMEs. The European
Commission’s 2014 Progress Report on Turkey also acknowledges the progress in
implementation of the Commercial Code as well as the increased capacity of the Public
Oversight, Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority noting that the country is well
advanced in this area.

 Box 3: Turkey’s business registry – using technology to reduce red-tape and costs

 The reform of the Turkish Commercial Code was long overdue. Its earlier version was adopted in the
 late 1950’s and was ill-suited to the operations of today’s Turkish companies. The 2012 Commercial
 Code provided a new and modern “constitution” for private sector commercial activity and
 entrepreneurship, grounded in financial transparency and strengthened corporate governance.
 Introduction of a digital trade registry was a critical element of the ongoing reform, replacing an
 inefficient structure of 238 registries with limited information and inter-operability. The new Central
 Registration System, MERSIS is a nation-wide system providing a unique identification number to
 each commercial entity and containing key information on the companies, including date of
 establishment, address, managers etc. In addition, MERSIS has an interface with datasets maintained
 by the Ministry of Finance and similar efforts are underway to ensure connectivity with datasets
 maintained by the Ministry of Justice and by the Social Security Institution. The benefits of MERSIS
 are multiple, including simplifying correspondence between government agencies and businesses,
 faster and easier cross-check of data and information and easier access to companies and their
 representatives during court proceedings. In addition, MERSIS is fully compatible with the European
 Business Register (though for the time being Turkey is not a member) and other similar international
 services. The implementation of MERSIS is also a part of the Government’s efforts to reduce
 informality.

 The aspirations of the authorities do not end here. They are also planning to launch PERBIS, an
 information system to facilitate the issuance of licenses. The PERBIS is envisaged as a single point of
 service, integrated with MERSIS and MERNIS (the Central Civil Registration System introduced in
 2000 for electronic registration of changes in civil status), which will reduce red-tape and cut costs.


Improving the investment climate – Enforcing contracts

The strength of contract enforcement is a critical aspect of performance of markets. It allows
banks to provide more financing and it facilitates investment decision of economic agents. The
European Commission 2014 Progress Report finds that “a reasonably well functioning legal
system has been in place in the area of property rights for several years”. Still, compared
internationally, while Turkey’s performance on the Doing Business indicator for enforcing
contract is actually better than the average for Europe and Central Asia; it lags OECD countries
on the costs and number of procedures. The new Civil Procedure Law, enacted in 2012,
introduced a number of improvements in the Turkish system for contract enforcement. The new
Law was expected to help strengthen creditor rights and facilitate more investments and
formalization of economic activity by: i) streamlining procedures for court cases; ii) introducing
out-of-court settlement mechanisms; iii) establishing a national arbitration system on par with
international good practices and iv) setting up new regional civil courts as an intermediate
appeals mechanism. The CSDPL supported the introduction of secondary legislation establishing

                                                   15
the preliminary investigation before court hearings which is expected to cover the bulk of the
investigative phase resulting in faster court case proceedings and reduced workload on judges.

Turkey was able to reduce the costs of enforcing contract at the time of adoption of the law in
line with the expected outcome for the CSDPL with the enforcement costs falling from 27.9
percent of the claim to 24.9 percent; however, expected reduction of costs in the subsequent
years have not materialized. Turkey was still able to reduce the burden of procedures by allowing
electronic filing system for court users. According to the European Commission’s 2014 Progress
Report for Turkey, the number of pending civil procedure cases remained approximately
unchanged during 2014, though it also noted that a more reliable registration system and set of
indicators are required to better measure the efficiency of the country’s judicial system. In
summary, the findings of this ICR are similar to the conclusion of the ICR for the previous DPL
series that it is difficult to obtain more detailed information on the impact of these reforms.

Improving the investment climate – Starting a business

At least since (Djankov, La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes, & Shleifer, 2002), repeated studies have
confirmed that easy entry of new businesses has positive impact over informality and corruption.
Analyzing Portugal, (Branstetter & Lima, 2013) find evidence that easier entry creates more
firms and jobs in the short-term, especially among small businesses owned by less educated and
using less advanced technology. Compared internationally, market entry in Turkey is not easy.
While it takes fewer days to open a business, Turkey has more procedures and higher costs
compared to the Europe and Central Asia and the OECD averages. The CSDPL supported the
government efforts to make market entry easier by supporting the issuance of a circular by
Ministry of Customs and Trade to simplify the registration of businesses by cutting one
procedure (requirement to present a copy of the identity card and the certificate of the domicile
of residence).

However, some of the gains have been reversed more recently, a risk that was identified during
CSDPL preparation. Starting a business became more costly during the last two years as the
implementation of the new Commercial Code resulted in an increase in the minimum capital
requirement. In addition, the notary and company registration fees have also been increased.
Consequently, starting a business became more difficult between 2012 and 2014. Falling short of
the CSDPL expected outcome, the number of procedures did not decline from 6 to 5 but
increased to 7, increasing the days required to start a business by half a day and the costs by
around 6 percentage points of income per capita. Still, during 2013 the number of newly
established businesses increased by 1.6 percent compared to the previous year and further by
16.3 percent in 2014 (The Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey, 2015).

Reducing Informality

Informality in Turkey is significant and impacts productivity, in addition to fiscal outcomes,
growth and vulnerability. The empirical analysis in the Turkey CEM on informality identified a
substantial gap in total factor productivity between formal and informal firms. The response of
the authorities included the preparation of an Action Plan towards combating informality with
measures to increase the benefits of being formal, but also measures to make informality more

                                               16
costly. The Turkish Social Security Institution (SSI), the agency in charge of implementing the
social insurance system by collecting insurance premiums from labor income, has an important
role in this agenda and the CSDPL supported efforts to strengthen its capacity. More precisely, it
supported the increase in the number of auditors in the SSI as well as the introduction of risk-
based principles in its operations. These measures were expected to significantly increase the
ability of the SSI to more effectively audit the private sector by expanding the number of audits
and ensuring these are increasingly being targeted towards entities with higher risk of non-
compliance. By end 2012, the number of auditors in SSI increased to 1,367 up from just 700 in
2010. The SSI reported that by mid-2014, the number of auditors reached close to 1,500 (out of
which 1,100 auditors and around 400 assistant auditors) and their target was 3,000 by the end of
the 10th Development Plan. In addition, the risk analysis unit was established in May 2012 with a
view to identify the high risk groups and launch targeted audits towards these groups. The SSI
established close cooperation with the tax authorities in order to have more accurate information
on earnings and sources of income but also to ensure that all companies and employees
registered with the tax office are also registered with the SSI. As part of this, MoF and SSI
auditors use unified forms during their audits. This was combined with increased penalties for
identified offenses. The SSI also extended its cooperation with professional associations
(engineers and architects, medical professionals, teachers, lawyers and accountants) to raise
awareness among their members on the need for accurate income reporting and insurance but
also to get information to set a “benchmark pay” (see Box 4).

 Box 4: SSI’s approach to better capturing incomes of professional groups

 Underreporting incomes has been a long-established practice among number of professional groups in
 the Turkish economy, mostly engaged in self-employed (sportsman, doctors, teachers, accountants,
 lawyers etc.). According to the SSI, 39 percent of employed professionals were reporting that they
 were earning the minimum income in 2012, despite at times visible evidence to the contrary. The SSI
 took an elaborate approach in dealing with these groups, by: i) increasing awareness; ii) getting better
 information on the incomes of these groups; iii) promoting voluntary compliance and finally iv)
 auditing and penalizing offenders. It approached the professional associations representing these
 groups, through seminars and letters, informing them of their duties and obligations. It also received
 information on “benchmark pay”, reasonable income levels that could be expected that these
 professionals would earn. Individuals reporting income below these levels would be selected to audits.
 By 2013, the ratio of professionals reporting that they earned the minimum wage declined to 36
 percent.


SSI has been having increasing success in dealing with informality. Its risk analysis unit
expanded its focus to two additional professional groups, architects and engineers and
accountants and lawyers, in line with the expected outcome for the CSDPL. While SSI
inspections identified 26 thousand unregistered workers in 2011, this number increased by 50
percent to 39 thousand by 2013. This accounts for around 7 percent of job positions in the
audited companies and is in line with the CSDPL expected outcome. However, the baseline
information from the CSDPL is 6 percent which was expected to increase to 7 percent as audits
are increasingly targeted towards high-risk entities. According to data from SSI received during
the ICR visit, the baseline was 8.5 percent and, rather than increasing, the indicator declined.
Still, given the strong increase in audited entities as well as the significant increase in the number


                                                   17
of identified unregistered workers, the ICR team concludes that the expected outcome to
strengthen the capacity of SSI to identify and target informality has been achieved.

The total number of insurees with SSI increased to 19.9 million by October 2014, up from 17.4
million in 2011 largely due to growth in insurees under service contract while the total number of
companies reached 1.7 million, up from 1.4 million in 2011 (Social Security Institution, 2014).
According to Turkstat, Turkey’s statistics agency, informality was 36.4 percent in 2014. While
exact comparison with the period prior to 2014 is not possible due to a change in methodology,
informality was 39 percent in 2012, down from 42.1 percent in 2011 which could be indicative
that the efforts of the authorities are having results. Still, a more coherent policy would be
needed to reduce informality going forward.

Pillar 2: Boost domestic savings and deepening the financial sector

Rating: Satisfactory

The operation supported a relatively modest reform to increase private savings which achieved
its narrowly defined expected result. Still, making a more meaningful increase in domestic
savings and a dent in the investment-savings gap would require stronger and continued efforts.
The measures envisaged to contribute to the deepening of the financial sector appear to have
been more comprehensive and to have the potential to contribute to a well-regulated and
supervised and more diversified financial sector. Still, similarly to the domestic savings agenda,
measures to deepen the financial sector would need to be continued and the Bank remains
engaged in this area through follow-up DPLs as well as investments lending and technical
assistance.

The CSDPL supported three key measures in this area: i) restructuring the private pension
scheme; ii) enactment of a new Capital Markets Law and iii) enactment of a new Leasing,
Factoring and Financing Companies Law.

Restructuring the private pension scheme

The decline in the households’ savings rate has been the main driver of the lowered domestic
savings in Turkey since the start of the 2000s. Despite robust income growth, the consumption of
households accelerated even faster reflecting pent-up demand and lower interest rates. Of
particular concern is the very low level of assets in the private pension system, which is exposing
a big part of the population to the risk of economic hardship at older age. The authorities had
setup the legal framework for private pension system and even provided a tax incentive to
stimulate its use. However, uptake was limited (only 35 percent of the population had a private
pension account) with net assets under management standing at around 0.7 percent of GDP in
2009. The poor design of the subsidy was at least partially contributing to these outcomes, as
well as the very high fees of the pension companies. In response, the authorities, supported by
the CSDPL, enacted amendments to the private pension law aiming to improve incentives for
voluntary retirement savings, including making savings longer term. The tax incentive (viewed
as being biased towards higher earning formal sector workers) was replaced by a 25 percent state
matching contribution (up to the minimum wage) that is subject to some vesting rules. In
addition, the costs of the system were significantly reduced, with the fees of private pension

                                                18
funds declining from 3.7 percent of assets under management in 2011 to 2.8 percent in 2013 and
further to 2.6 percent in 2014, also reflecting amendments to the legislative framework which
took effect as of the start of 2013 and which lowered the maximum amounts that pension funds
can charge.

As a result, the number of new entrants increased significantly, from around 400,000 in 2012 to
around 1.2 million in 2013 with the total number of contributors reaching around 4.2 million.10
The trend is expected to have continued in 2015 with the contributors exceeding 5.5 million. In
addition, the average savings increased, with new members contributing around 30 percent more
according to information from the authorities. As a result, assets under management increased to
1.6 percent of GDP by 2014. According to information from the Pension Monitoring Center, the
percentage of participants that withdrew their contributions in the first three years of contributing
has also been declining, although changes in methodology complicate the verification of this
assessment. Official data indicate that 12.8 percent of the entrants to the system in 2010-2012
withdrew during this period, 11.8 percent during 2011-2013 and 13.4 percent in 2012-2014.
However, prior to 2013, withdrawals within two months of signing were not taken into
consideration in exit statistics. Adjusting for the treatment of withdrawals within two months of
signing, the exit rate is around 10 percent in both 2011-2013 and 2012-2014, below the 12.8
percent in 2010-12, suggesting that the expected outcome to reduce the exit from the private
pension system has been achieved.

The authorities are contemplating further reforms to try to incentivize people to join and
contribute to the private pension system. This could also include automatic enrollment for all
new employees, facilitating the payment of contributions, reducing fees and introducing a
performance based fee structure.

Enactment of a new Capital Markets Law

The CSDPL aimed to support the authorities’ efforts to promote an efficient, deep and liquid
bond market. The focus was adequate given the very low levels of capitalization of the corporate
bond market. At around 34.2 percent of GDP and 43.9 percent of GDP in 2010, respectively, the
size of the Turkish bond and stock markets lagged other large upper-middle income countries.
The comparison is even more unfavorable when the debt securities issued by the public sector
are excluded.

The 2012 Capital Markets Law (CML) was considered a substantial step forward in the creation
of comprehensive set of rules and regulations that can serve as a sound basis for significantly
deepening capital markets. Drawing also on extensive World Bank engagement in the area
(through analytical work on corporate bonds and mutual funds, review of the law etc.), among
other things, the new CML enhanced investor protection (expanded disclosure requirements and
increased liability for inaccurate or misleading information), achieved convergence with EU
regulations (including on defining insider trading and market manipulation and setting up an
“Investor Compensation Center”), strengthened the role of the regulator (the Capital Markets
Board – CMB), simplified the prospectus approval process, and introduced new capital market
instruments and institutions. The implementation of the secondary legislation was supported by

10
     Insurance and Pension Annual Report 2013, Treasury of the Republic of Turkey

                                                        19
the follow-up series of development policy operations. According to the Turkey’s Capital Market
Board, the volume of mutual funds increased from TL30.2 billion in November 2012, to TL35.4
billion in December 2014, exceeding the CSDPL expected outcome of TL33 billion. At the same
time, the issuance of corporate bonds increased from TL44.4 billion in 2012 (revised baseline to
take into effect the full year issuance), to TL57.9 billion in 2013 and TL68.5 billion in 2014,
exceeding the targeted outcome for the CSDPL. Banks and non-financial banking institutions
account for the bulk of the new issuance, helping these institutions diversify their liabilities away
from short-term deposits. The corporate sector accounts for around 10 percent of outstanding
debt securities currently.

The enactment of this and other financial sector related laws in recent years has enhanced
Turkey’s role in the global financial markets. The 2014 Global Financial Centers Index ranks
Istanbul 42nd globally (up from 72nd four years ago) and the first in Eastern Europe and Central
Asia (Yeandle, 2014).

Enactment of a new Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law

For its income level, the non-banking financial institutions (NBFIs) sector in Turkey appeared
relatively underdeveloped. For example, the leasing penetration ratio of around 0.67 percent
(annual leasing volume as percentage of GDP) in 2012 was almost three times lower compared
to the EU-average, partly reflecting an outdated and fragmented legal framework consisting of a
Financial Leasing Law, a decree on Money Lending Transactions as well as a Regulation on
Establishing and Operation Principles of Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financial Companies.
In addition, total factoring volume was 5.3 percent of GDP in 2012, compared to 6.6 in Poland
and 7.3 percent of GDP in South Africa. The new Law on Leasing, Factoring and Financing
Companies adopted in 2012 set the stage for a change. It put in place enhanced requirements for
managerial and organization skills in NBFIs, higher minimum capital requirements, expanding
the scopes of available instruments (operational leasing, sub-leasing, software leasing, sale and
lease-back) in line with international practices. An important part of the reform is the change in
the way the NBFIs are regulated and supervised with the Banking Regulation and Supervision
Agency (BRSA), the consolidated financial sector regulator, taking over this function. During
2013 the secondary legislation for the new Law was also introduced. The Law also mandated the
establishment of the Financial Institutions Association (FKB) and the requirement for companies
to become members. The Association should also set up an Invoice Registry System providing
the system with a sound information system while the NBFIs are also included in the new Credit
Bureau established in 2013. The improved information infrastructure in the financial sector is
facilitating deepening of the sector while keeping risks manageable.

Consequently, the sector has seen rapid growth in recent years. The asset size of leasing firms
increased from around TL18.6 billion in 2011, to TL20.3 billion in 2012 and further to TL32.6
billion by 2014. Most of the leasing contracts finance construction (20 percent of exposure),
metal (7.4 percent) and textiles (7.0 percent) equipment. Further expansion of leasing is
expected, especially once sector companies build skills and introduce new products, including
“operational lease”. The new arrangements for regulating and monitoring the NBFIs are also
helping keeps risks from the sector manageable; with its newly acquired powers, the BRSA
revoked licenses for a number of factoring companies. Despite this rapid growth, the NBFI
sector accounted for only 3 percent of the overall financial sector in Turkey suggesting that there

                                                 20
is ample room for further expansion. Specifically to the CSDPL-related expected outcome,
according to FKB data, the leasing penetration ratio (defined as leasing volume except buildings
/ private fixed investment except buildings) exceeded the target of 5.5 percent and by mid-2013
reached 6.2 percent.

During CSDPL preparation, the team identified some differences in the adopted law compared to
international models (such as the Model Law on Leasing adopted by the International Institute
for the Unification of the Private Law and IFC Leasing Guidelines) which could have resulted in
excessive risk to the parties of a lease and created reluctance on the part of lessors to launch new
products. The Bank team maintained an active engagement with market participants during
which it was concluded that these risks are manageable and that leasing companies were
supportive of the reform proposal.

3.3    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating:

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the operation was satisfactory on the basis of satisfactory rating of the
relevance of the objectives, the design and implementation of the operation and achievement of
the objectives. The CSDPL had clear and relevant objectives, it was quickly processed and was a
continuation of an ongoing engagement while forming the basis for the next series. While not all
expected outcomes were met, the ICR team ranks the overall outcome rating as satisfactory as
the CSDPL also set the stage for more robust Bank engagement in few areas and allowed the
Bank to learn from the Turkish experience.

3.4    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any):
(a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects and social development
Extreme poverty declined from 13 percent in 2002 to 5 percent in 2012 while moderate poverty
fell from 44 percent to 21 percent (defined using the World Bank’s poverty lines of US$2.5 PPP
and US$5 PPP, respectively). The CSDPL-program was expected to have positive distributional
impact as program actions help in reducing informality and promoting savings. The increased
number of detected informal workers (by 50 percent from 26 thousand in 2011 to 39 thousand in
2013) is expected to have increased the social security of these workers, which tend to be
vulnerable workers. At the same time, there is no evidence that increased efforts to target
informality has contributed to job losses and increased unemployment. In addition, the improved
matching element and the delinking of contributions to wages supported by the CSDPL was
expected to translate into higher savings for the vulnerable groups and informal workers.
However, there is still no sufficient data to confirm this.
(b) Institutional strengthening
The CSDPL supported agenda envisages a significant upgrade to the country’s institutions in
number of areas, including financial sector regulation and supervision, auditing of corporate
sector activities, identifying and dealing with informality. Progress has been substantial but this
will be a longer term agenda which is also being pursued by the ongoing programmatic series of
budget support operations. In number of cases the ICR team was able to identify the World Bank
contributions (through technical assistance or analytical advisory activities); however, in the case

                                                21
of some prior actions, the institutions involved appear to have relied mostly on their internal
resources.
(c) Other unintended outcomes and impacts
Not applicable.

3.5    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The operation was largely successful in achieving the expected outcomes thus contributing to
some improvement in the business environment, easier access to finance and higher savings;
however, the agenda in each of these areas remains significant. The ICR team believes that the
risk to the outcomes is moderate. On the positive side, the CSDPL-agenda has clear ownership
among the authorities and its objectives of improved competitiveness and higher savings are
broadly shared across the political and social spectrum in the country. As a recent Bank report on
Turkey’s Transitions notes, progress achieved in the country has been based on a broad
consensus in economic policy which needs to be nurtured. The increasing integration of Turkey
into global and European economic relations is further strengthening the sustainability prospects
for some of the reforms, especially in implementation of the commercial code and the new
capital markets law.

However, in an environment of elevated economic and political uncertainty, Turkey’s transition
to high-income has been slightly delayed. More generally, continued economic uncertainty in the
external environment and increased polarization in the society could result in increasing
difficulties in securing external financing and undermine business confidence.

Economic risks were identified in the preparation and implementation of the CSDPL, reflecting
the elevated inflation, the high current account deficit and a lackluster performance in main
trading partners. A mix of all these factors contributed to somewhat weaker economic outcomes
than expected at the time of the CSDPL preparation. GDP expanded by 3.5 percent on average
during 2013 and 2014, compared to the projected 4.3 percent and the medium-term projections
are significantly lower. The external imbalance has narrowed and inflation has declined lowering
threats to stability. Still, exchange rate volatility in early 2015 is a testimony that macroeconomic
stability cannot be taken for granted and the Government needs to continue implementation of
prudent macroeconomic policies. This risk continues to be mitigated, though partially, by the
World Bank engagement through budget support operations. An emerging economic risk is the
ability to create sufficient jobs for the rising labor force in an environment of growth rates or
around 3.5 percent.

The political risks that emerged following the CSDPL approval were somewhat different from
those identified during preparation. The CSDPL PD expressed concerns about loss of reform

                                                 22
momentum due to a prolonged election cycle. The shared views on the CSDPL-agenda among
the political and social spectrum, have mitigated this risk without major implications for program
performance. Still, while the outcome of the elections confirmed the support for the government,
mounting domestic and regional challenges have increased political tensions. While the impact
over the program activities appears to have been muted, overall business confidence was
affected. With the regular election cycle ending in mid-2015, there is an opportunity to accelerate
structural reforms and improve business confidence by building on the strengths of the country,
including its young and dynamic population, sizeable domestic market, strategic location and
improving infrastructure and public services.

Implementation risks identified at the time of CSDPL were related to the ability of a number of
institutions to cope with the new, in some cases significantly expanded, mandates. The risks still
exist but continue to be mitigated by the phased-in implementation of number of activities,
ongoing capacity building efforts as well as continued engagement with the Bank.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1    Bank Performance
(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase):
Rating: Satisfactory

The CSDPL was developed in close cooperation between the World Bank and the Turkish
authorities using the solid knowledge and experience gained through the preceding series of
budget support operations and through extensive analytical work in areas covered by the
operation. The CEMs contained analysis that informed the CSDPL program related to reducing
informality and increasing savings. The 2012 FSAP and analytical work related to capital
markets deepening and access to finance also provided recommendations that were included in
the CSDPL program. In addition, despite the internal constraints, the Bank team was able to
respond to the request from the authorities and deliver the budget support operation.

A strong team based in the field, including the task team leader for the operation, ensured regular
and active dialogue with the authorities. In addition, there was strong cross-sector collaboration
and also with IFC, which was also highlighted in the Decision Note for the operation.
Furthermore, the core team preparing the CSDPL was at the same time working on the flagship
“Turkey’s Transitions: Integration, Inclusion, Institutions” report allowing them to have an
exceptional overview of the achievements of the country and the main bottlenecks towards
transitioning to high income in sustainable way.
(b)    Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements):
Rating: Satisfactory

All prior actions were completed prior to the approval of the CSDPL by the World Bank Board.
The supervision activities were to a large degree embedded into the preparation activities of the
new series of development policy operations, benefiting from a similar productive engagement
as discussed in the section above.
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:
                                                23
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Bank performance is judged to be satisfactory on the basis of satisfactory quality at
entry and the satisfactory quality of supervision.
5.2    Borrower Performance
(a)    Government performance
With regards to the institutional framework, the Government of Turkey has extensive experience
in dealing with the World Bank, including under the framework of development policy lending.
In addition, the CSDPL was, in many ways, a continuation of the earlier series of programmatic
DPOs and relied on the already established institutional infrastructure.

Program wise, the authorities have a clear and well-articulated agenda on the areas covered by
the CSDPL; competitiveness and access to finance continue to be an anchor for the authorities
while the increasing acceptance of the needs to tackle the savings agenda, including at the
Deputy Prime Minister level ensured strong buy-in. The joint World Bank – Government of
Turkey work on savings and informality had an important role in this regard. Importantly, in
number of areas, the authorities actively involved various stakeholders (non-bank financial
institutions, various professional associations, businesses etc.) resulting in shared views on
reform priorities and implementation arrangements.
(b)    Implementing agency or agencies performance:
The Treasury was in charge of coordinating the activities on the part of the government and the
DPL was an additional and welcomed tool to establish dialogue with a broader number of
agencies, in an environment where, in general, inter-agency coordination needs to improve. The
agencies in charge of implementation of the reforms were generally well-equipped and resourced
to undertake the tasks. While the role of the World Bank in sharing knowledge and policy advice
was generally recognized, in some areas the agencies could not establish a direct link between
the reforms and the CSDPL. Similarly, a stronger M&E framework is needed to better guide
reform efforts of the authorities.
(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:
Rating: Satisfactory
Given the ability of the authorities to design, coordinate and implement the reform measures,
overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Government does have a generally
coherent policy on competitiveness and savings and the DPL appears to have provided some
support to better articulating this policy and improving coordination, though the awareness of
some implementing agencies on the contribution of the CSDPL has been limited.

6. Lessons Learned

There continues to be merit in providing budget-support operations to upper-middle income
countries like Turkey; there is still a considerable role for the Bank in advancing structural
reforms in these countries while allowing the Bank to learn from their experience. The CSDPL
did facilitate a more sustained engagement for the Bank in number of areas, reflected in the
design of a new DPL series and ongoing analytical work.


                                               24
The decision to proceed with a single tranche operation was driven largely by country exposure
constraints at the time of preparation. The risk this design posed for sustainability of the impact
of the DPL were mitigated by the strong ongoing analytical engagement, resulting in a new DPL
series once the single borrower limit had been revised. Nonetheless, greater medium term
certainty over the Bank’s available headroom would be desirable to avoid the risks to
sustainability resulting from a one-tranche design.

This ICR confirms the conclusion of the DPO retrospective that higher middle-income countries
with stronger institutional capacity can successfully implement DPO programs covering more
sectors and a bigger number of prior actions. In hindsight, the ICR team believes that a more
focused approach may have been more efficient, including avoiding areas where the Bank had
less engagement or ability to influence the policy dialogue such as the reforms in the investment
climate supported by the CSDPL. Given the significant business climate challenges Turkey
faces, the team had to balance the risk of a contested agenda against the benefits that would have
resulted from making faster progress. Thorough political economy analysis is recommended
going forward to make sure decisions on these kinds of trade-offs are well informed.

Compliance with good international practice, while advisable, should not be the sole and critical
factor in the decision to support certain reform efforts. This decision should be informed by
detailed analysis of the reform and supported by extensive stakeholder engagement as was done
in the case of the prior action on the new Leasing, Factoring and Financial Companies Law.

With the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework in the country gradually evolving, the
design of a relevant and achievable results matrix was critical to effectively evaluate the
program. The task team devised a well-designed results framework which facilitated the task of
the ICR team; however, the indicators were not always directly linked to the national M&E
system while some baseline indicators were revised making comparisons over time difficult.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Borrower comments:
The draft ICR was shared with the authorities for their comments. Their comments provided
useful clarifications and updates to the numbers and have largely been addressed in the final
ICR. No substantive issues were raised on the description and assessment of the outcomes of the
ICR. The Government of Turkey contribution to the ICR confirms the importance of the main
areas of focus of the CSDPL (competitiveness and savings) and their complementarity to the
broader development agenda of the country. There are minor differences in the assessment of
risks; with the authorities viewing the recent economic and political developments as temporary
and not affecting the sustainability of the reform effort.

The contribution of the authorities to the ICR is included as Annex 4.




                                                25
       Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                 Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan

(a) Task Team members

           Name                        Title                 Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Alper Ahmet Oguz          Sr. Financial Sector Specialist   GFMDR   Finance Sector Specialist
Alvaro S Gonzalez         Lead Economist                    GTCDR   Private Sector Development Spec
Bernardo Weaver Barros    Consultant                        GTIDR   Finance Sector Specialist
Can Selcuki               Economist                         GTCDR   Economist
Carolina Sanchez          Practice Manager                  GPVDR   Economist
Cesar Cancho              Economist                         GPVDR   Economist
Cevdet Cagdas Unal        Financial Economist               GFMDR   Financial Economist
Cristobal Ridao-Cano      Program Leader                    EACIF   Economist
Esra Arikan               Sr. Environmental Specialist      GENDR   Environmental Specialist
Isfandyar Zaman Khan      Program Leader                    ECCU5   Finance Sector Specialist
Joseph Paul Formoso       Sr. Finance Specialist            CTRLA   Finance Specialist
Kamer Karakurum-Ozdemir   Sr. Economist                     GMFDR   Co-Task Team Leader
Ahmet Levent Yener        Sr. Human Development Spec.       GSPDR   Human Development Specialist
Margaret Png              Lead Counsel                      LEGLE   Lawyer
Marina Wes                Country Manager                   ECCPL   Co-Task Team Leader
Mediha Agar               Sr. Economist                     GGODR   Co-Task Team Leader
Murat Sultanov            Sr. Operations Officer            GFMDR   Operations Officer
Pinar Baydar              Sr. Program Assistant             ECCU6   Program Assistant
Robert Francis Rowe       Sr. Economist                             Economist
Sau Ngan Wong             Sr. Counsel                       GFMDR   Lawyer
Seda Aroymak              Sr. Financial Management Spec.    GGODR   Financial Management
Tunya Celasin             Sr. External Affairs Officer      ECCU6   External Affairs
Ulugbek Y. Tilyayev       Operations Officer                CFGA3   Operations Officer
William Joseph Price      Sr. Financial Sec. Specialist     GFMDR   Finance Sector Specialist
Zeynep Lalik              Sr. Financial Management Spec.    GGODR   Financial Management
Supervision
Evgenij Najdov            Sr. Economist                     GMFDR   ICR TTL




                                               26
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage             No. of Staff Weeks                   US$
                                                          (including travel and consultant
                                                                        costs)
Lending
                   FY13                            69.4                          258,903
                   FY14                               2                            4,634
                          TOTAL:
Supervision/ICR
                   FY15                            7.07                           31,922
                          TOTAL                   78.45                          341,427




                                   27
  




28
       Annex 2: Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

N/A.




                           29
       Annex 3: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N/A.




                                  30
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              31
                                  COMMENTS of GOVERNMENT
               on IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION and RESULTS REPORT
                                          of CSDPL
Introduction

1.      Competitiveness and Savings Development Policy Loan (CSDPL) set out our mutual
understanding with the World Bank to address our Government’s programs for focusing on
structural reforms to enhance competitiveness, to improve business climate, to raise domestic
savings and to improve the financial sector. The two pillars of the CSDPL program are (i)
bolstering competitiveness via an improved business environment and better governance; (ii)
boosting domestic savings and deepening the financial sector.

2.       Turkish government announced 25 Transformation Programs in November 2014 which
also cover specific pillars under the CSDPL program. It addresses fundamental structural
problems of the economy and aim to ensure efficient coordination and ownership of institutions.
These transformation programs aim to: (i) improve efficiency in manufacturing, (ii) increase
domestic savings, (iii) develop a business and investment-friendly environment, (iv) facilitate
commercialization in priority technology areas, (v) rationalize of public expenditures, (vi)
enhance the quality of public revenues, (vii) develop basic and occupational skills, (viii)
mobilize the labor market, and (ix) reduce informal economy. Each transformation program has
detailed implementation schedules. Implementation of these programs will be a priority for all
government institutions. An implementation, monitoring and assessment mechanism has been
built to ensure that the programs are implemented fully, timely and consistently.

3.    Our comments about the implementation of the structural reform program supported by
the CSDPL are as follows:

Bolstering Competitiveness via an Improved Business Environment and Better Governance

4.     Competitiveness was an important element of 9th Development Plan and it constitutes one
of the key pillars of our 10th Development Plan (2014-2018) as well. Many structural reforms
have been on the agenda of the Government in order to create a more competitive business
environment and to improve business climate.

5.     In this vein, the reforms being undertaken comprise; (i) implementing Commercial Code,
(ii) improving the investment climate-enforcing contracts, (iii) improving the investment
climate-starting a business, (iv) reducing informality.

6.    The new Commercial Code (CC) Law No. 6102 which is a milestone for creating a
modern regulatory framework to enhance competitiveness was published in the Official Gazette
on February 14, 2011 and it became effective on July 1, 2012. Many regulatory and practical
changes have been adopted according to this law.

7.     According to the new CC shareholder rights have been improved by giving each
shareholder right to request the investigation of a specific transaction they believe to be


                                              32
fraudulent to be investigated at the general shareholders meeting. Besides minority rights have
been enhanced and privileged shares have been restricted.

8.     With the Council of Ministers Decision 2012/4213 requirement for a Board of Auditors
were replaced by statutory independent auditors or auditing firms. In order to widen the scope of
independent audit, Council of Ministers Decision 2014/5973 was published in the Official
Gazette on April 14, 2014. According to this new regulation the companies that are going to be
subject to independent audit are as follows; (i) Total asset size of TL 75 million or more (ii)
Annual net sales revenue of TL 150 million or more (iii) Minimum of 250 employees or more.

9.      Public Oversight Authority (POA) is the sole authority to set and to issue Turkish
Financial Reporting Standards (TFRSs) that are full in compliance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) published by International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)
and to determine the application scope of those standards. Also, POA aims to set financial
reporting and auditing standards in fully compliance with international standards, to provide
uniformity in the implementation by approving auditors and audit firms and to ensure auditors
and audit firms to provide audit service at international quality standards by making public
oversight. Thus, companies in Turkey will become competitive, efficient and reliable actors of
international capital markets with their financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS
and audited in compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA).

10.     In Turkey all companies shall prepare annual activity reports. The Regulation Related to
the Determination of the Minimum Content of the Companies’ Annual Reports which was
published in the Official Gazette on August 28, 2012 set the minimum requirement for the
annual reports. According to the aforementioned regulation, an annual report shall include such
parts at minimum; (i) general information, (ii) remuneration of Board of Directors and key
management, (iii) investment plans and research and development activities, (iv) company’s
operations and important developments related to operations, (v) financial position, (vi) risk
assessment by the management, (vii) other matters.

11.     Regulation Regarding the Electronic General Assembly Meetings of Joint Stock
Companies was published in the Official Gazette on August 28, 2012. According to this
regulation board meetings can be held electronically. Online participation to the meetings and
online voting are permitted. Also it is possible to sign the board resolutions electronically.

12.     The Trade Registry Regulation was published in the Official Gazette on January 27, 2013
and accordingly Central Trade Registry System (MERSIS), in which trade registry records are
kept in an electronic platform was established. Today all trade registries in Turkey have started
using the system.

13.    Civil Procedure Law No. 6100 was published in the Official Gazette on February 4, 2011
and entered into force on October 1, 2011. One of the most important aims for enacting such law
was reducing court workloads by accelerating the court process and reducing the cost of
enforcing contracts.

14.     Mediation Law on Civil Disputes No. 6325 was published in the Official Gazette on
June 22, 2012. The Law aims to regulate the procedures and principles for resolving conflicts

                                               33
without recourse to courts as an alternative dispute resolution. This voluntary dispute resolution
system is carried by impartial and independent third party.

15.     Coordination Council for the Improvement of Investment Environment (YOIKK) is the
platform to improve investment climate in Turkey through public private dialogue. YOIKK
determines actions to improve Turkey’s ranking within each World Bank Doing Business
indicator and overall ranking. In Doing Business 2015 Report, due to some reforms and
methodological changes Turkey’s performance has improved in 6 sub-indicators (dealing with
construction permits, getting electricity, registering property, trading across borders, enforcing
contracts and resolving insolvency) and Turkey bolstered its competitiveness when compared to
other upper middle income countries.

16.      Since 2001, YOIKK has become a key structure where private sector makes significant
contributions in the process of improving investment climate. The Council conducts its agenda
with the help of 10 Technical Committees (Company Transactions and Corporate Governance,
Employment, GITES and Licenses, Investment Location, Environment and Construction
Permits, Taxes and Incentives, Foreign Trade and Customs, Intellectual Property Rights and
R&D, Legislation on Investment Climate and Legislative Procedures, Getting Credit,
Infrastructure) working on specific issues with participation of both public and private
institutions via publicly available annual action plans. YOIKK Technical Committees closely
monitor Turkey’s performance in internationally acclaimed reports, especially in the World
Bank’s Doing Business Report, which is among the main sources for PDO Indicators as well and
works eagerly to improve Turkey’s performance in terms of number of procedures, duration and
cost.

17.     There are important efforts for reducing informality by important reforms in the recent
years in Turkey. Within this framework Social Security Institution has increased the number of
auditors and established a risk analysis unit. Besides, “Action Plan to Combat Informal
Economy” was announced by the Ministry of Finance on January 30, 2015.

Boosting Domestic Savings and Deepening the Financial Sector

18.      Our Government gives utmost importance to increasing domestic savings since it is
critical for promoting sustainability of growth in Turkey. In the context of this policy we have
made such reforms; (i) restructuring the private pension system, (ii) enactment of a new leasing,
factoring and financing companies legislation and (iii) enactment of a new Capital Market Law.

19.     The Private Pension Savings and Investment System Law No. 6327 was published in the
Official Gazette on June 29, 2012. According to the law all the participants have the right for a
%25 state subsidy for their paid contributions. This arrangement increased the participation in
the system significantly. Introducing an auto enrollment scheme is being explored and therefore
a voluntary auto-enrolment pilot program was introduced in 2014 in Turkey.

20.    New Capital Market Law No. 6362 was published in Official Gazette on December 30,
2012 in order to deepen capital markets and since the adoption of this law secondary legislations
have been revised and updated. These legislations include Mutual Funds Regulation, Pension
Funds Regulation, Merging of the Exchanges, IPO Regulation, Corporate Governance

                                               34
Regulation, Regulation on Notification Requirements, Regulation on Inspections of Information
Misconduct and Market Fraud, Regulation on Actions Creating Markets Disruptions, Regulation
on Principles of Public Statements for Special Conditions. With the new law and secondary
legislations the legal infrastructure of Turkish capital markets has been renewed in compliance
with international norms especially with EU Directives.

21.    The new Factoring and Financing Companies Law No. 6361 was published in Official
Gazette on December 13, 2012. In order to implement the law some secondary legislations were
enacted which are as follows; (i) Regulation on Principles for Establishment and Operations of
Financial Leasing, Factoring and Finance Companies (ii) Regulation on Accounting Practices
and Financial Statements (iii) Communique on Prospectus and Uniform Accounting Plan.
Currently, with the implementation of the law and the secondary legislation, number of the
customers, total assets and loans have significantly increased.




                                              35
      Annex 5: Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     36
                         Annex 6: List of persons interviewed


1. Martin Raiser, Country Director, World Bank 
2.  Marina Wes, Lead Economist, World Bank
3.  Florian Fichtl, Lead Operations Officer, World Bank
4.  Kamer Karakurum Ozdemir, Sr. Economist, World Bank
5.  Mediha Agar, Sr. Economist, World Bank
6.  Can Selcuki, Economist, World Bank
7.  Uluc Icoz, Head of Department, Undersecretariat of the Treasury, Directorate General of
    Insurance, Department for Private Pensions, Ankara
8. Yakup Sungu, Head of Combating Unregistered Employment Department, General
    Directorate of Insurer Premiums, Ankara
9. Alev Sahin, Expert, Combating Unregistered Employment Department, General
    Directorate of Insurer Premiums, Ankara
10. Ozge Seven, Customs and Trade Expert, Ministry of Customs and Trade, General
    Directorate of Domestic Trade, Ankara
11. Dursun Coskuncelebi, Ministry of Customs and Trade, General Directorate of Domestic
    Trade, Ankara
12. Muge Doyran, Head of Department, Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency
    (BRSA), Ankara
13. Ercan Caliskan, Sr. Banking Specialist, Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency
    (BRSA), Ankara




                                          37
                                                                                                       TURKEY
                                                                                                   ®      PROVINCE CAPITALS•
                                                                                                   ®     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                               ~ RIV ERS

                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                          RAILROADS
                                                                                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES'
This map wos produred by the hiop Design Unir of The World Bonlc.
T1l6 boundaries, colors, denominations and any othef' information                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
shown on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Sonic
Group, any ;vdgment on the legal sfafus ofany territory, or any
e ndonement or acceptance of such boundoritn                                                  •Province names are the some as their capitols.


                                        28 _ )                      30°E   32°E       34' E                                          38°E                      r·-·, ._,_
                                                                                                                                                                            · - . ~ · ..,,,- . ,

                                                                                  Black Sea                        0     50    100     150    200 Kilometers                                       ·--   )   _,.·--   ~


                                                                                                                   0          50        100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRAQ                \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       """'·._ . w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (J,


                                                                                                                                                                                        42"E                          44' E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t   s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "'
