Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15625-LE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 14, 1996
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound
US$1 = LL 1,590
LL I million = US$628.9
(as of February 1996)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AIDP                 Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
CDR                  Council for Development and Reconstruction
DG                   Director General
DSC                  Directorate of Studies and Coordination
EIMC                 Environmental Information and Monitoring Committee
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GIS                  Geographic Information System
GOL                  Government of Lebanon
GP                   Green Plan
GPEC                 The Green Plan's Executive Committee
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMS                  Information Management System
IRR                  Internal Rate of Return
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
NAC                  National Agriculture Census
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
TA                   Technical Assistance
TORs                 Terms of Reference
GOVERNMENT OF LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                                           Page No.
Loan and Project Summary .............................................   i-iii
1. BACKGROUND .
A. The Economy.                                                                                   I
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                                                       I
C. Agricultural Institutions.                                                                    2
II. THE PROJECT CONTEXT.                                                                               2
A. General Characteristics.                                                                      3
B. Major Constraints to Hilly Agriculture Land Development.                                      3
C. Evaluation of the GP's Past Achievements.                                                     4
D. Cost Sharing Arrangements.                                                                    5
E. Design Considerations.                                                                        6
III. THE PROJECT.                                                                                      7
A. Project Objectives.                                                                           7
B. Project Description.                                                                          7
C. Project Cost and Financing   .....................                                            9
D. Procurement  ................................................                                10
E. Disbursements  ...............................................                               10
F. Environmental Impact ..........................................                              11
G. Women's Role in the Project .....................................                            12
Wv. ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT   ..............................                                      12
A. Institutional Arrangements  ....................                                             12
B. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)  .................................                           13
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION   ....................................                                      13
VI. MARKETING, PRICES AND INCOMES  ...............................                                     13
A. Marketing and Prices  ..........................................                             13
B. Incomes    . ..................................................                              14
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ...................                                   14
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries  .......................................                          14
B. Economic Analysis and Justification  ................................                        15
C. Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis  ...............................                      16



VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ........................................                        17
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Project Cost Summary ............................................                    9
3.2  Financing Plan  .................................................                   10
3.3  Disbursement Plan ...............................................                      11
3.4  Estimated Disbursement Schedule ....................................                11
ANNEXES
I.   Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
II. Appraised Sample of Land Development Works
III. (a) First Two-Year Program of Rural Roads
(b) Economic Analysis
IV. Key Monitoring Indicators
V.  Environmental Analysis, Monitoring and Plan of Action
VI. Cropping Patterns and Yields
VII. List of Working Papers Available in Project Files
CHARTS
I    Ministry of Agriculture - Organizational Chart
2    Green Plan - Organizational Chart
MAPS
Map No. IBRD 27927: Administrative Map of Lebanon and Location of First Two-Year Program of
Agricultural Roads
Map No. IBRD 27928: Mean Annual Rainfall Map
Vice President         Kemal Dervis
Director               Inder Sud
Division Chief         Salah Darghouth
Task Team              Mohamed N. Ben Ali (Task Manager),
Nejdet Al-Salihi, Jean-Francois Barres



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower                         :  Lebanese Republic
ImDlementine Agencies               The Green Plan (GP) of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR)
Beneficiaries                       Ministry of Agriculture
The Green Plan
Farmers
Loan Amount                      :  US$31 million equivalent
Terms                               Standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans, with 17
years maturity, including 5 years of grace
Commitment Fee                      0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balance, beginning sixty days
after signing, less any waivers
Project Obiectives                  The main objectives of the project are to: (a) develop land and
water resources to increase farmers' incomes and conserve the
environment through land terracing and development of about
5,600 ha and storage of runoff water in about 250 small hill-
ponds; (b) increase access to rural areas through the
construction of about 300 km agricultural roads; and (c)
upgrade the institutional capabilities of the Green Plan (GP)
and Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), carry out a National
Agricultural Census and establish an Information Management
System at MOA.
Project Description              :  The Project would finance three major components: (a) a land
and water development component which would include, inter
alia, mechanical works for the terracing of 3,100 ha of steep-
sloped land (IFAD financing), construction of terrace-retaining
walls, construction of 250 hill-ponds of about 10,000 m3
capacity (20 of which to combat forest fires) and the provision
of about I million fruit tree seedlings to plant about 2500 new
and existing terraces; (b) an agricultural roads component
which would finance the construction of about 85 km of
asphalted roads and 215 km of earthen roads and provide
specialized design and works supervision equipment, studies,
vehicles, as well as incremental staff and recurrent costs; and
(c) an institutional support component which would include
improving the implementation capacity of the GP, providing it
with a new Environmental Information and Monitoring
Committee (EIMC) and conducting a National Agricultural
Census, as well as establishing within MOA an Information
Management System.



ii                                                Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
Environment                          The Project has been classified as a Category B project for the
purpose of O.D. 4.01.   Guidelines and environmental
assessment  checklists  have  already   been  prepared.
Environmental assessments, to be conducted by the EIMC,
would become part of all feasibility studies and would be
implemented under the Project to mitigate potential negative
effects on the environment of land and water development as
well as of agricultural roads.
Povert:  The project is classified under poverty Category "Program of
Targeted Interventions" (PTI), because of a specific
mechanism, and the use by the GP of existing local committees
to help it to focus on needy rural populations, particularly those
with small land holdings of less than 0.5 ha..
Benefits                             The primary benefits of the project would be incremental
agricultural production (58,000 tons of vegetables and 1 10,00
tons of fruit), the improved management and conservation of
land and water resources, savings on the cost of rural
transportation and an updated agricultural sector database. In
total, about 9,600 farm families or about 75,500 people would
benefit directly from the project.
Risks                                The uncertainty of achieving the anticipated agricultural
benefits on schedule is the first risk that the project may face.
This risk would be caused by potential delays in the
implementation of agricultural investments by farmers.  It
would be mitigated during the selection of project beneficiaries
by assisting farmers who plan to complete the entire investment
within two years or who commit themselves to refund the GP
assistance if they do not complete the investments. The past 30
years' experience of the GP shows that this risk is in reality
minimal, as most farmers do indeed complete their investment
on time. The second risk is related to the maintenance of rural
roads. This risk would be overcome by providing funds under
the project for the GP to maintain the roads it builds. In the
long term, the increasing allocations of road maintenance funds
made to the Governorate offices and Deputies of the various
regions in Lebanon would ensure the adequate maintenance of
agricultural roads.



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                                               iii
Proiect Cost Summary
%        */eTui
Foreign    Base
Local    Foreikn   Total    Local   Foreien    Total   Exchange  Costs
-------- (LL Million) -               US$ '000)
A. Land and Water Development            68,441     23,442   91,883   43,045      14,743    57,788      26         73
B. Agricultural Roads                     6,720     15,888   22,609    4,227       9,993    14,219      70         18
C. Capacity Building
1. Green Plan Headquarters            1,259     1,027    2,286       792        646     1,438      45          2
2. Environmental Monitoring            569        638     1,207      358        401       759      53          1
2. Ministry of Agriculture
Support to Agricultural Census   3,484      2,358     5,843    2,191      1,483     3,675      40          5
Support to MOA's Management
Infornation System               811        639     1.450      510        402       912      44           1
Subtotal Ministry of Agr.             4,295     2.998     7,293     2,701     1,885    4,587       41          6
Subtotal Capacity Building                6,123      4,663   10.786    3.851       2,932    6.783       43          9
Total Baseline Costs                     81,285    43,993  125,278   51,123    27,668   78,791          35        100
Physical Contingencies                7,124     3,767    10,891     4,480     2,369    6,849       35          9
Price Contingencies                  24,9       5.524   30,421   11,M         3.474    19.132      18         24
Total Project Costs                     113,306    53,284  166,590   71,261       33,511   104,772      32        133
Financine Plan
Financier                      Local             Foreign            Total
---------------- (US$ Million) ---------------
World Bank                      5.8                25.2              31.0
IFAD                            7.2                 4.8              12.0
Beneficiary farmers           46.4                  2.3              48.7
Government                     11.9                 1.2              13.1
Total                        71.3                33.5               104.8
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02   FY03
-----------  ----------------------  (US$Million}-------------------------------------
Annual                       2.0         3.0          4.9          5.6          6.1          6.6         2.8
Cumulative                   2.0          5.0         9.9         15.5         21.6        28.2        31.0
Economic Rate of Return: 24 percent
Estimated Completion Date: December 31, 2002
Project Identification No.: LE-PA-34037






LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy
1.01    Lebanon is a small mountainous country with an area of 10,450 km2. Its population was
estimated in 1994 at about 3.4 million. Administratively, Lebanon comprises six administrative
Governorates (Muhafazats): Mount Lebanon, North Lebanon, South Lebanon, Nabatiye, the Bekaa Valley
and Beirut (see Map IBRD 27927). The six Muhafazats are sub-divided into 24 Districts (Cazas). Until
the mid-seventies, Lebanon was a prosperous middle-income country driven mainly by the service sectors,
namely trade, tourism and finance, which contributed more than 70 percent of the Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). In 1975, the country plunged into a violent civil war which lasted for nearly 17 years and had
a profoundly destructive effect on the Lebanese economy and the foundations of Lebanese society.
B. The Arricultural Sector
1.02    Agriculture in the Economy. Agriculture GDP has remained significantly below its pre-war
level (20 percent) and is currently accounting for only 10 per cent of total GDP. Nevertheless, the
agriculture sector continues to be an important source of income for 20 to 30 percent of the population,
particularly in hilly and mountainous areas. Moreover, although its share of GDP has fallen since the mid-
1970s as the trade and service sectors have grown, agriculture accounts for a substantial proportion of
exports. Approximately 360,000 ha, or slightly more than one-third of Lebanon's total land area of about
one million ha, is arable. The most fertile areas are located in the Bekaa valley and along the narrow
coastal strip. Of the 215,000 ha of arable land that are presently cropped, 87,000 ha are under irrigation
and the rest is rainfed. The remaining 145,000 ha of arable lands are hilly and mountainous and are
either in fallow or are too steep to be cultivated without rehabilitation and development. Tree crops,
vegetables and livestock make up a significant proportion of agricultural production. In their quest for
higher and more stable incomes, farmers have shifted away from annual crops to fruit trees and protected
high value crops. The proportion of cropped land under fruit trees has risen from 41 percent of the total
cultivated area in 1974 to more than 51 percent in 1990. About 40 percent of tree crops are receiving
supplemental irrigation. Major tree crops include olives, grapes, apples, cherries, citrus and bananas. The
area devoted to cereals decreased from 30.4 percent in 1974 to 18 percent of the total cultivated area in
1990. Annual crops include cereals, pulses, potatoes, tomatoes, cucurbits and other vegetables.
1.03    Government Policy and Strategy. Given the limited arable land resources, the deterioration
of the natural resource base and the steadily growing population, the Govemment has since the early
sixties given a high priority to land and water conservation and development as well as to improving
access to isolated rural areas. This was manifested through the creation of the Green Plan (para. 1.07)
and the provision to land-owners, through cost-sharing arrangements, of incentives to sustainably develop
their steep-sloped lands. Public financing of land and water development for private farmers is justified
on several accounts: (i) land and water developments dramatically increase farm income and improve
living standards so as to reduce poverty in rural areas; (ii) improved rural incomes and standards of living
reduce the migration of the rural poor to urban areas and facilitate the return of populations displaced
during the war, thus lowering the cost to the Govemment of urban infrastructure and reducing urban
congestion; (iii) land and water development activities significantly reduce soil and water erosion and
protect the environment; and (iv) because initial investment costs are very high and the time it takes for



2                                                 Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
these investments to provide returns is long, poor and small land owners cannot afford to make these
investments on their own since needed credit is virtually unobtainable.
C. Agricultural Institutions
1.04    The Council for Development and Recor-struction (CDR). CDR is a financially autonomous
public institution created in 1977 for the coordination of reconstruction and development planning in
Lebanon. It is attached to the office of the President of the Council of Ministers to whom it is responsible
for recommending economic, financial and social policies. It is also entrusted with the channeling of loans
and grants from external sources to finance the country's reconstruction and development.
1.05    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The MOA has the statutory responsibility to formulate
agricultural policy and to support agricultural development through its central and regional services and
satellite agencies. After the end of the civil disturbances, the MOA was restructured and re-engineered
under the provisions of a new organizational decree (Chart 1). The decree entrusts MOA with the
responsibility for planning, administering and developing the agricultural sector and its related activities.
The war-induced absence of permanent systems to collect agricultural statistics and the lack of an updated
sectoral information data base are now the major factors constraining MOA's efforts to forrnulate effective
agricultural policies and strategies.
1.06    The Green Plan (GP). The GP is a public authority with considerable management autonomy.
Established in 1963 under Decree No. 13785, the GP became active in 1964 as an autonomous authority
under the tutelage of the Minister of Agriculture. Its mandate is "to study and execute land rehabilitation
and development projects" and its range of activities includes land rehabilitation and development,
development of hill ponds and small water reservoirs, water distribution systems and small-scale irrigation
schemes and the construction of agricultural roads. All civil works planned and financed through the GP
are often designed and always executed by private sector contractors. As shown in Chart 2, the GP is
headed by an Executive Committee (GPEC) composed of a President and two members. At its Beirut
headquarters, it is organized into three central services: Cabinet/Administrative, Accounting and Technical.
In addition to the above three services, the GPEC is supported by a small administrative and advisory unit.
From an original staff of about 300 in the late sixties, the GP now employs 40 engineers/agronomists and
some 170 technicians and support staff. The GP's effectiveness is presently constrained not only by staff
shortages but also by budget resource limitations and a lack of mobility. These have reduced its programs
and implementation capacity. However, despite its reduced capacity, the GP is still substantially active.
More details on the GP are in Chapter 11 , Section C.
II. THE PROJECT CONTEXT
2.01    Relevance to Country Assistance StrateLuv. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Lebanon was last discussed by the Executive Directors on June 30, 1994. The proposed project would
be central to achieving the goals of the CAS, which focus on: (i) addressing social needs and
environmental concerns; (ii) rehabilitating physical infrastructure; and (iii) helping to rebuild and
strengthen public administration. The demand-driven land and water development activities to be financed
under the project would respond to farmers' needs and significantly increase rural income, thereby
reducing poverty. These same activities would also help reduce soil and water erosion and protect the
environment. The rehabilitation and construction of agricultural roads would contribute to the upgrading
of physical infrastructure and to improving the access of rural populations to markets and social services.
The conduct of a National Agricultural Census and the establishment of a Permanent Statistical System
and an Information Management System would strengthen MOA's capacity to formulate sectoral policies



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                             3
and development strategies, including the promotion of private-sector-led agricultural growth. The project
is also consistent with the MENA Rapid Country Water Strategy and the draft "Lebanon Environmental
Strategy Framework Paper."
A. General Characteristics
2.02    Location and Climate. Due to the participatory and demand-driven nature of the activities to
be financed by the proposed project, their location would be distributed throughout Lebanon. They would
be focused mainly on hilly, remote and less developed areas. Lebanon is blessed with a mediterranean
climate and has relatively adequate water resources. Temperatures are moderate with no significant
incidence of frost below 100 m elevation. Annual precipitation ranges from about 1250 mm in central
Mount Lebanon to just over 800 mm in the South (Map IBRD 27928), which is roughly the average for
Lebanon as a whole.
2.03    Farm Size and Credit. According to the last, unpublished 1970 agricultural census, about 46
percent of farm holdings in Lebanon are small (between 0.5-2 ha); they account for about 9 percent of
the privately owned lands (POL). Another 28 per cent of holdings are considered to be of average size
and have an area of between 2 - 5 ha; they account for about 16 percent of the POL. The remaining 26
percent of holdings have a size of more than 5 ha and account for about 75 per cent of the POL (Annex
VI, Table 1). There is no source of institutionalized formal credit for agriculture in the country. Small
and medium-sized farmers can generally obtain loans from family members, local money lenders and
commercial firms (input suppliers and/or wholesalers) in the form of short-term credit but at very high
indirect interest rates. Parliament has recently approved a law authorizing the creation of an Agricultural
Bank with a large share of private-sector participation.
B. Major Constraints to Hilly Aariculture Land Development
2.04    Undeveloped hilly agricultural lands often have shallow and eroded soils. After centuries of
unsustainable cultivation, they have been practically depleted and are presently utilized to either cultivate
annual subsistence cereals or have been converted to marginal pastures. Under both utilizations their soils
continue to be eroded. The income these lands generate is no longer sufficient to sustain livelihood. As
a result, farmers have either taken other jobs to supplement their farm income or have migrated to urban
areas. Several decades ago, a few well-to-do farmers or those with access to remittances from abroad
succeeded in changing the production capability of their lands by terracing them and planting them to
high-value fruit trees. Land terracing, terrace consolidation, planting and water mobilization in hill-ponds
are the techniques most favored by Lebanese farmers for soil and water conservation and for sustainable
income-generation. They are, however, expensive and out of reach of most land owners. Through the GP,
the Government has devised a way to channel assistance to landowners to conserve, improve the aptitude
and develop lands in the mountainous areas of Lebanon (para. 3.02). The results of GP experience during
the past three decades is discussed in Section C below.
2.05    The isolation and lack of access to mountainous agricultural areas has had detrimental effects
on both the intensity with which lands are cropped and the yields the crops achieve. Because of their
relatively high elevation, most of these areas are covered with snow in the winter and are wet and muddy
during the spring. Without agricultural roads, farmers have to wait until tracks become passable and are
unable to get to their land until late during the cropping season. As a result, they are only able to hastily
plough and late-seed a few crops on only part of their land; hence, the low cropping intensity. Late-
seeding of most crops on hastily prepared seed-beds affects the performance of crops and significantly
reduces their yields. The lack of access roads also makes it difficult for farmers to transport to their farms
and use adequate arnounts of organic and chemical fertilizers and other crop husbandry products.
Inadequate fertilization and crop husbandry practices have been observed to reduce crop yields by more



4                                                 Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
than 50 percent. Transporting farm products, particularly perishable farm produce, on animal-drawn carts
or small trucks over several kilometers takes a long time and causes the produce to bruise and diminish
in quality and price. Because their vehicles suffer frequent breakdowns and high O&M costs, transporters
charge very high fees. Linking these isolated areas to the local "classified" road network and to villages
would enable fanners to improve cropping intensity and practices and achieve higher incomes (para. 3.03).
These agricultural roads would also make it easy for them and their families to access social services from
their farms.
2.06    In addition to the specific constraints described in paras. 2.03 and 2.05 above, the Lebanese
agricultural sector as a whole suffers from the lack of an updated and complete sector information
database. Because of the civil war and turmoil that followed the conduct of the field surveys and
completion of the data, the full results of the 1970 agricultural census were never released. Much of the
information that was collected and analyzed was either destroyed or lost during the war. Presently, the
MOA is finding it difficult to formulate policies and a coherent strategy for agricultural development
without essential infornation, an updated sectoral database and adequate staffing. To alleviate this
constraint, the conduct of a new National Agricultural Census (the last completed census dates to 1960)
and the establishment of a permanent system for agricultural statistics as well as a documentation center
would be necessary (para. 3.06). Until public salaries become attractive, MOA staffing needs would
continue to be met through the recruitment of consultants from the local budget.
C. Evaluation of the GP's Past Achievements
2.07    Lessons From Past GP Experience. Since its inception, the GP has adopted a demand-driven
approach to the execution of land rehabilitation and agricultural roads activities. During the past thirty
years, the GP has helped terrace about 26,000 ha of sloped privately-owned land (about 0.7 ha per
fanner), construct more than 7 million m2 of terrace retaining-walls, 500 hill ponds (average capacity =
8,000 m3) and more than 3,000 small concrete basins. The GP has also built more than 1,000 km of
agricultural roads. Its activities have benefitted more than 38,000 farmers and about 1,000 villages
scattered all over Lebanon. After reaching a peak in 1968, the GP's activities declined and became erratic
during the 17 years of war. Since 1991, the GP's ability to respond to fanner and community demands
for agricultural roads and land development increased appreciably but remained curtailed by the lack of
adequate financial resources. In 1994, 800 ha of land were developed and 40 km of agricultural roads
were constructed. The GP estimates that unsatisfied requests for assistance to land terracing and
development exceed 40,000 ha, and those for rural roads exceed 2,000 km.
2.08    The review of past activities indicates that, overall, the development implemented by the GP
during the last thirty years has been generally successful and in line with its mandate to develop hilly
lands and improve access to isolated agricultural areas. The administrative procedures used to implement
the GP's work plans are known to the farming population in Lebanon and have evolved with time and
are becoming more efficient and more competitive than in the past. It is, therefore, logical for the design
of the proposed project to build on the current system and institutions and take into account the lessons
learned from the GP's past experience. These lessons include the need to: (i) increase the efficiency of
land and water and agricultural roads investments; (ii) introduce greater transparency and competitiveness
in the award of land-terracing mechanical-works contracts; (iii) put greater focus on environmental aspects;
and (iv) to the extent feasible, focus project resources on poor areas.



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                             5
D. Cost-Sharinf Arrangements
2.09    Present cost-sharing arrangements set the lifetime assistance allocation at an aggregate ceiling
of LL 10 million per person and take into consideration only part of the investment required to rehabilitate
and develop lands. The costs eligible for GP assistance include land terracing, terrace retaining-walls, soil
ripping, rock removal, hill-pond construction and localized irrigation systems. They amount to about LL
13 million per ha (US$8,175). Costs eligible for GP assistance do not include those for soil preparation,
basic fertilization, seedlings, planting costs, replacement of failed trees and crop establishment expenses
during a period of four years. These are financed by beneficiary farmers. When all costs are added, the
total investment per hectare reaches about LL 26 million (US$16,350) in North Bekaa or double the
amount deemed eligible for assistance by the GP. Farmers' share in the costs of land rehabilitation and
development amounts to 13 percent of eligible costs when the area developed amounts to 0.5 ha; it is 35
percent for a I ha area; 67 percent for a 2 ha area and reaches 78 percent for a 3 ha area. However, when
the total costs are taken into account, farmers share of the cost increases to 57 percent for 0.5 ha, 68
percent for I ha, 84 percent for 2 ha and 89 percent for 3 ha. During negotiations, GOL gave assurances
that the GP would maintain cost-sharing arrangements at their present level. If a change becomes
necessary, new arrangements would have to be satisfactory to the Bank [para. 8.01 (a)].
2.10    Land terracing, water conservation and use and orchard establishment are, in the long term,
capable of generating substantial incomes even in the poorest areas. The analysis of the financial returns
of these activities in each of the five Lebanese regions indicates that their IRRs vary between a low of
18 percent for North Lebanon to a high of 50 percent in South Bekaa. With these lucrative returns, it
would seem that Government cost-sharing would not be necessary. However, when all the costs of
investing in land and water developments are added up and analyzed, it becomes clear that farmers would
not be able to make this type of investment on their own. The estimated initial investment to establish
and operate (first four years) a one-hectare mixed-crop farm varies between a low of about LP 26 million
(US$15,700) in North Bekaa to a high of LP 51 million (US$32,000) in South Lebanon. Present average
farm incomes in Lebanon are not known; however, estimates made during the preparation of the proposed
project indicate that a one-hectare wheat-farm has an average income of about LL 67,000 (US$42.0),
which is insignificant.
2.11    The minimum initial investment in a one hectare fruit-farm in North Lebanon is about LL 26
million (where some of the poorest areas of Lebanon exist). It is equivalent to 373 times the average
annual income of a one-hectare wheat-farm in this area. With the existing low incomes of farmers, the
high initial investment costs and the six years it takes for orchards to break even with operating expenses,
farmers are unable to muster the necessary financial resources to invest in land terracing and development.
Without Government assistance, only the rich would be able to undertake this type of activity. Without
Government assistance, rural farmers would not only be incapable of developing their lands, but would
also have their land resource base and their present meager incomes deteriorate as a result of erosion. To
insure their livelihood, they would most likely abandon their farm land and migrate to urban areas, causing
great expenses to the Government in social infrastructure. In an attempt to deal with this potential
out-migration, conserve the environment and improve life in the rural mountainous areas, the Government
has committed itself to share the costs of sustainable development of land and water resources. Past
experience has indicated that farmers benefitting from the GP's assistance have been able to mobilize their
share of development cost through personal savings and informal financing channels.
2.12    Environmental Aspects.  The GP's past activities (terraces, rural roads and fruit tree
distribution) have generally achieved positive environmental impact. However, in some cases, the lack
of sufficiently detailed environmental surveys, particularly for agricultural roads, may have resulted in
effects that are not fully consistent with the objectives of natural resources conservation. These possible
effects remain undocumented mainly because of the lack of adequate monitoring of the GP's activities and



6                                                 Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
their effect on the environment. In order to avoid potential harm to the environment as a result of future
activities to be financed by the proposed project, durine negotiation GOL gave assurances that an
Environmental Information and Monitoring Committee (EIMC) would be created Ipara. 8.01 (b)M within
the GP. Its role would be to assess, during the study and design stages of project activities, potential
detrimental effects on the natural resource base and various eco-systems and to propose mitigating
measures to be undertaken before or during the implementation of these activities (Annex 5).
E. Design Considerations
2.13    The objective of improving farmers' income from agriculture in the mountainous areas of
Lebanon can best be achieved through the development of their land and water resources. To achieve this
goal several alternatives are available. Agriculture intensification through better cultural practices and a
higher level of inputs (fertilizers, pesticides and better crop varieties) was the alternative most used in the
past. The results have often been significant in the short term; however, their long-term benefit was not
sustainable, mainly because the annual crops grown do not make the best use of resources and often were
the causes of erosion and pollution. A second alternative, which has been adopted almost exclusively by
wealthy landholders and was proven sustainable, has been to change the aptitude of the land and improve
its capacity to support higher value and/or permanent crops. By terracing steep hilly lands, conserving
their soils, planting them with fruit trees in lieu of erosion-conducive annual crops and storing potentially
erosive runoff water for summer supplemental irrigation, well-to-do farmers have been able to create
employment for their families and neighbors, developed and protected natural resources from erosion, and
substantially increased their income. One of the objectives of the GP was to make the adoption of this
second natural resources development alternative affordable to smallholders.
2.14    The Project has been designed under a program approach. Under this approach, regular
activities of the GP that respond to a set of agreed criteria [para.8.01 (c) and (d)] would be financed by
the Project. With regard to land and water development activities, a sample of farmers' requests for
assistance was appraised (Annex II) and was found to be responsive to the agreed criteria except for the
environmental assessment which remains to be completed. The GP has issued instructions and forms to
be included in all the feasibility study packages to ensure that the agreed criteria are taken into account
in the selection of activities that would benefit from GP assistance. Disbursements for land and water
development would be contingent on the full responsiveness of the planned activities to the agreed
selection criteria, as ascertained during the review of the GP's annual work program. With regard to
agricultural roads, the program (70 km) to be implemented during the first two years of the project was
evaluated and was found to be responsive to the agreed selection criteria (Annex III). The required
environmental assessment of agricultural roads has been completed. This involved consultations with
farmers, the GP, NGOs, local community leaders and Government authorities. Detailed designs for the
two-year road program have been completed and agreement on the expropriation of the land on which
these roads would pass has either been obtained or is underway. The project components relating to
institutional capacity building have been well defined and evaluated in detail (paras. 3.05 and 3.06).
2.15    Stakeholders Participation. Rapid Rural Appraisals and a workshop were conducted during
project preparation and pre-appraisal. Their results indicate that in order to have an impact on poverty,
project activities should, to the extent feasible and within the existing social equilibrium, give greater
priority to the poorest farmers and the most depressed rural areas. According to current GP policy, project
financial resources would, in principle, be divided equally among the four regions of Lebanon (North
Lebanon, Mount Lebanon, South Lebanon and the Bekaa). However, it was agreed that the GP may
allocate up to 20 percent more resources to regions where farmers' demand for assistance are high.
During negotiations it was further agreed that within regions, the GP's regional offices would target needv
villazes and communities and that within targeted villages and communities, the Green Plan would work
with local committees to Rrioritize the poor and target proiect assistance to those most in need. The



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                             7
participation and involvement of populations through elected representatives (municipalities, cooperatives,
village associations, etc.) would be used by the GP's regional offices to increase their capacity to identify
and target needful families. Representatives of populations would, for example, help to: (i) differentiate
between farmers who rely on farming to make a living from those who have additional sources of income;
and (ii) determine which potential beneficiaries of the project are the poorest [para. 8.01 (e)]. However,
project activities would benefit the Lebanese farming population at large and would not be focused
exclusively on the poor.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obeectives
3.01    The main objectives of the project are to: (i) develop land and water resources on about
5,600 ha for the purposes of increasing farmners' incomes and protecting the environment through land
terracing and harvesting of runoff water in small hill-ponds; (ii) increase access to and from isolated rural
areas through the construction of about 300 km of agricultural roads; and (iii) strengthen the institutional
and implementation capabilities of the GP and the Directorate of Studies and Coordination (DSC) within
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) by upgrading their human and material capabilities, financing the
conduct of a National Agricultural Census (NAC) and establishing an Information Management System
to provide the data necessary for strategy and policy formulation.
B. Project DescriDtion
Land and Water Development (base cost US$57.8 million: 73 percent of base cost)
3.02    The aim of this component is to help farmers achieve the sustainable development of their land
holdings that are presently under extensive agricultural production or that are not cultivated because past
practices have caused them to erode and degrade (para. 2.04). Under this component, the project would
finance: (i) mechanized works for land terracing on about 3,100 ha; (ii) the construction of terrace
retaining walls to stabilize existing terraces and/or consolidate newly terraced lands; (iii) the construction
of 250 hill-ponds (10,000 m3 average capacity) and 50 small concrete reservoirs (100 to 300 m3 average
capacity) to harvest runoff water for supplemental irrigation of crops in the summer. At least 20 ponds
would be constructed in collaboration with the MOA's Directorate of Rural Development and Natural
Resources (in charge of Forestry) to provide water for fighting forest fires. Once lands are terraced and
stabilized, they would be planted to high-return crops such as vegetables, protected vegetables and banana
trees or to other high-value fruit trees. Therefore, in addition to financing the land terracing and water
conservation infrastructure described above, the Project would also finance an orchard establishment
activity through the procurement of about one million fruit tree seedlings to plant 2,500 ha; these would
be purchased by farners under the same cost-sharing arrangements described in para. 2.09 above. The
Project would also finance costs associated with the execution of the land and water development
component, which would include: (i) topographic and office equipment, computers and software to allow
GP staff to supervise the land terracing and hill-pond construction works; (ii) 4WD vehicles; (iii) local
staff training; (iv) incremental staff salaries and allowances, as well as (v) office supplies; and (vi) vehicle
operation and maintenance costs (Working paper No. 4, Table 1).
Aericultural Roads (base cost US$14.2 million: 18 Dercent of base cost)
3.03     In order to improve access to agricultural areas and make it easy for rural populations to move
to and from isolated mountainous areas (see para. 2.05), the project would finance the construction of 85



8                                                 Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
km of asphalted roads and 215 km of earth roads. Agricultural roads are generally constructed on existing
tracks made by animal-drawn vehicles or by farm tractors and small trucks. The GP has so far been able
to carry out design studies on 180 km of roads of which 110 km are at the detailed design stage. The
execution of the agricultural roads component would follow a program approach, characterized by a well-
defined two-year work program (Annex II1) evaluated at appraisal and a flexible program (230 km) to be
studied and evaluated according to agreed criteria (Annex I, para. 3) during project implementation. To
allow for the conduct of activities associated with the construction of agricultural roads, the project would
finance: (i) laboratory analysis, feasibility studies and detailed designs for 300 km of roads; (ii) one set
each of topographical, geo-technical and office equipment in addition to computer software for road design
and construction supervision by GP staff; (iii) one replacement and 8 new 4WD vehicles; (iv) 4 person-
months of technical assistance in road design; (v) local and intemational staff training and; (vi) recurrent
costs for incremental staff salaries and incentives, road maintenance, vehicle operating costs and office
supplies (Working Paper No. 4, Table 2).
Institutional Support (base cost US$6.8 million; 9 percent base cost)
3.04    The institutional support to be provided by the project would target the GP, which would be in
charge of implementing the land and water development and agricultural roads components, and the
Directorate of Studies and Coordination (DSC) of the Ministry of Agriculture, which would be in charge
of the field execution of the agricultural census and the establishment of an information management
system.
3.05    The Green Plan. Project support to the GP would encompass the following two sub-
components:
(a) Environmental Information and Monitoring (base cost US$0.8 million; 1 percent of
base cost) The major objective of this component would be to create within GP, through
EIMC, the institutional capability to undertake simple environmental reviews, assess the
potential implications of the GP's core activities on critical ecosystems and design measures
to mitigate their potential negative effect on the environment (Working Paper No. 6). The
EIMC would also monitor project progress and maintain records on project monitoring
indicators [paras. 2.12 and 8.01(b)]. To establish the proposed EIMC, the Project would
finance specialized equipment, including computers, vehicles, etc. (Working Paper No. 4,
Table 3) as well as vehicle operation and maintenance costs.
(b) Implementation Capacity Building (base cost USS1.4; 2 percent of base cost). Under
this subcomponent, project support targets the GP's central offices'. This would allow for
a faster turnover in the verification of farmers' requests for assistance in land and water
development, in the review of designs of agricultural roads and in the preparation of tender
documents. The Project would finance office equipment, 4WD vehicles, consultant services,
the organization of farrners information campaigns, etc. (Working Paper No. 4, Table 4).
3.06    Ministry of Agriculture. Project support to the Ministry of Agriculture would encompass the
following two sub-components:
(a) National Agricultural Census (base cost US$3.7 million; 5 percent of base cost). In
order to enable the Directorate of Studies and Coordination (DSC) of the Ministry of
1/  Support to the GP's regional offices has been included in the cost of the land and water and agricultural roads
development components.



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                                       9
Agriculture to update the agricultural sector information database (para. 2. 06) and create
a permanent system for agricultural statistics, the project would finance the implementation
of a national agricultural census (NAC) and the rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing
statistical services of MOA as well as policy/strategy formulation, marketing and
comparative advantage studies. More specifically, the project would finance, inter ai
specialized equipment, such as stereoscopes, aerial photographs, computers as well as survey
and GIS equipment, 4WD vehicles, 43 person-months of international technical assistance
and 45 person-months of local consultants and recurrent costs to cover incremental staff
salaries and staff travel allowances (Working paper No. 4, Table 5).
(b) Information Management System (base cost US$0.9 million; 1 percent of base cost).
The objective of the Information Management System (IMS) sub-component is to physically
gather all the available information in one accessible location, classify this information to
make it easily retrievable and preserve some documentation onto more compact forms of
documents. For this purpose the project would finance, inter alia, the procurement of 5
units of audio-visual equipment, computers and printers, one vehicle, the construction of a
documentation center at Ghazir or the rehabilitation/completion of an existing center in
Beirut, technical assistance, and training and staff incentives (Working Paper No. 4,
Table 6).
C. Proiect Cost and Financing
Proiect Cost
3.07     Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are estimated at US$104.8
million, of which 32 per cent or about US$33.5 million are in foreign currency.
3.08     Details of cost estimates are presented in Working Paper No. 4 and are summarized in Table
3.1 below.
Table 3.1 - Project Cost Summary
%      %Total
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreien   Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Exchanpe Costs
-------- (LL Million) --------- USS '000) -------
A. Land and Water Development         68,441    23,442   91,883   43,045    14,743   57,788    26       73
B. Agricultural Roads                  6,720    15,888   22,609    4,227    9,993   14,219    70       18
C. Capacity Building
1. Green Plan Headquarters         1,259    1,027    2,286     792       646    1,438    45         2
2. Environmental Monitoring         569       638    1,207      358       401      759    53         1
2. Ministry of Agriculture
Support to Agricultural Census  3,484    2,358    5,843    2,191     1,483    3,675    40        5
Support to MOA's Management
Information System              811       639    1.450     510       402      912    44         1
Subtotal Ministry of Agr.           4.295    2.998    7.293    2.701     1.885    4.587    41        6
Subtotal Capacity Building             6.123     4.663   10.786    3.851    2 932    6.783    43        9
Total Baseline Costs                  81,285    43,993  125,278   51,123    27,668   78,791    35      100
Physical Contingencies              7,124    3,767   10,891    4,480     2,369    6,849    35        9
Price Contingencies                24.897    5,524   32    15.65         3.474   12.13     18       24
Total Project Costs                  113,306    53,284  166,590   71,261    33,511  104,772    32      133



10                                             Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
Financing Plan
3.09    The proposed Bank loan of US$31 million would meet about 93 percent of the foreign costs.
The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has been approached by the Government
and has agreed to provide US$12 million, or 11 percent of project costs for the parallel financing of
terrace-retaining wall construction. Total financing by project beneficiaries would amount to about
US$48.7 million or 46.5 percent of total project cost. The remaining US$13.1 million or 12.5 percent
of project cost would be financed by the Government.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Financier                Local        Foreign     Total
World Bank                5.8           25.2       31.0
IFAD                      7.2            4.8       12.0
Beneficiary farmers     46.4             2.3       48.7
Government               11.9            1.2       13.1
Total                 71.3            33.5      104.8
D. Procurement
3.10    Procurement responsibilities would be vested in the GP and the CDR. The GP would be
responsible for all procurement, including ICB, relevant to the land and water development and
agricultural roads components, as well as its own institutional strengthening sub-component. The CDR
would be in charge of all procurements relevant to the sub-component of MOA's DSC. The GP has had
extensive experience with implementing small works packages for agricultural roads as well as land and
water development activities that would be financed by the proposed project. The DSC, however, has not
had such extensive experience with procurement and would need the support of the CDR and the
institutional strengthening planned under the project. All goods and works to be financed from the
proceeds of the Bank's loan would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under Bank Loans and IDA Credits. The procedures to be adopted are detailed in Annex 1, Appendix 3.
E. Disbursements
3.11    The proposed Bank loan of US$31 million would be disbursed against the categories and at the
rates indicated in Table 3.3 below. Disbursement would be made against full documentation, except for
payment against contracts of less than US$150,000 equivalent for goods, US$100,000 for works,
US$50,000 for mechanized works for land and water development, US$100,000 equivalent for services
with consulting firms and US$50,000 equivalent for services with individual consultants (including training
and studies), which would be reimbursed against statement of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
related to SOEs would be retained by the GP and the CDR, each for the activities for which it has
implementation responsibility. Given the long interruption in lending to Lebanon, there is no disbursement
profile for the country. The implementation period for the project is estimated at six years. The proposed
disbursement profile closely follows the disbursement for the on-going Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Modemization Project. Because project funds will be disbursed through two Special Accounts (one for
the GP and one for the CDR), a disbursement plan for GP and another for the CDR have been formulated;
they are shown in Annex I, Appendix 4. An estimated disbursements plan for the Bank loan is
summarized in Table 3.4 below.



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                         11
Table 3.3: Disbursement Plan
US$ million    Percentage of Expenditures
Catep,ory                                 eguivalent     to be Financed
1. Civil Works                               19.8        80%
2. Goods                                       5.7        80%
3. Consultants, Training, Studies             4.8         100%
4. Unallocated                                0.7
Total                             31.0
3.12      Special Account. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Borrower
would establish two Special Accounts in the Central Bank. The first is to be operated by the GP and the
second by the CDR; both accounts would be operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The Bank would, upon request, make authorized allocations of US$2.5 million into the Special Account
of the GP and US$0.3 million into the Special Account of the CDR. Initially, the allocations would be
limited to US$1.5 million and US$0.2 million for the GP and the CDR respectively. The full authorized
allocation could be claimed when disbursements reach US$4 million and US$.05 million for the GP and
the CDR respectively. The GP and the CDR would submit replenishment applications for the Special
Account on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever
comes first. The replenishment applications would be supported by the necessary documentation, bank
statement of the Special Account and a reconciliation bank statement of the Special Account against Bank
records.
Table 3.4: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02    FY03
Annual                2.0      3.0      4.9       5.6      6.1       6.6      2.8
Cumulative            2.0      5.0      9.9      15.5     21.6     28.2      31.0
3.13    The GP and the CDR would keep separate accounts for project expenditures in accordance with
accounting principles and practices acceptable to the Bank. The GP would have ultimate responsibility
for budgeting and accounting for the land and water development component (para. 3.02), the agricultural
roads component (para. 3.03) and institutional strengthening sub-components [para. 3.05 (a) and (b)]. The
CDR would have responsibility for budgeting and accounting and would coordinate project activities
executed by the MOA's DSC [para. 3.06 (a) and (b)]. Both the GP and CDR would prepare
reimbursement requests for their respective components and forward them to the Bank, as well as ensure
that up-to-date information on expenditure and disbursements would be available to the Bank supervision
missions. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations from the GP and the CDR that they would
(i) have their proiect records. proiect accounts and proiect financial statements for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank: (ii)
fumish to the Bank no later than nine month after the end of each year certified copies of its financial
statements for such year and the reports of such audits [para. 8.01(fl and (e)il.
F. Environmental Impact
3.14     In consonance with O.D. 4.01, the project has been classified under Environmental
Category "B". The safeguards designed into the project, particularly the creation of the Environmental



12                                              Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
Information and Monitoring Committee and the inclusion of environmental considerations as a criteria for
selecting activities to be supported by the project, would insure that the integrity of natural ecosystems
and the environment are preserved. Environmental impact assessments would become an integral part of
all the feasibility studies the GP conducts for land and water developments as well as for agricultural
roads. The impact of the project on the environment is expected to be positive. Guidelines and
environmental assessment checklists have already been prepared. More specifically, it is anticipated that
the project would help ensure that environmental assessmentsto be conducted by the EIMC would become
part of all feasibility studies and would be implemented as part of the project to mitigate potential negative
effects on the environment of land and water development as well as agricultural roads (Working paper
No. 5).
G. Women's Role in the Proiect
3.15    Women would have an active role in project implementation and would benefit from its
assistance. The Government of Lebanon and the agencies involved in the project do not have regulations
that would preclude women from fully participating or benefiting from the proposed project. In all the
three institutions involved in the project, women occupy posts of responsibility and have participated in
the design of the project. As civil service employees, women would be able to actively participate in the
management and implementation of the project. As potential beneficiaries, women have under Lebanese
laws the same rights of land ownership as men. As in the past, the GP would continue to provide its cost-
sharing assistance to beneficiaries regardless of their gender. Under Lebanese law, women are able to
own and operate businesses and would, therefore, be eligible to bid and receive award of contracts
financed by the project.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01    The project would be implemented by two agencies, the Green Plan and the Council for
Development and Reconstruction (Annex 1). The GP would play the role of the project management unit
and be responsible for implementing the land and water development component (para. 3.02), the
agricultural roads component (para. 3.03) and the subcomponents related to the creation of the
Environmental Infornation and Monitoring Committee [para. 3.05 (a)] and its own institutional
strengthening subcomponent [para. 3.05 (b)]. The CDR would play the role of a second project
management unit and be responsible for the implementation of the institutional support subcomponents
of the Ministry of Agriculture. These subcomponents include the conduct of the national agricultural
census [para. 3.06 (a)] and the establishment of an information management system and documentation
center [para. 3.06 (b)]. To allow for proper staffing and the smooth implementation of the added
activities brought on by the project, the GP and the DSC of MOA would recruit additional contractual
staff and where feasible, give additional allowances to performiing staff (as indicated in the detailed cost
tables for each activity). Implementation arrangements, responsibilities and schedule are detailed in Annex
1.
Bank Supervision Missions
4.02    Review missions would normally be held twice a year, except for the first year when an
additional project-launch mission would be undertaken immediately after project effectiveness.
Supervision missions would normally take place when semi-annual reports have been produced by the
Borrower's agencies (after March and September of each year). Staffing of project-launch and supervision
missions during the first year of the project would include the Task Manager (Agriculturist), a Civil/



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                         13
Irrigation Engineer, a Soil and Water Conservation Specialist, a Statistician, an Economist and a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist and would require a total input of about 20 staff-weeks. Further
details are available in Annex 1.
B. Monitorin! and Evaluation (M&E)
4.03    The M&E of project achievements would be the responsibility of the GP and the CDR (see
Annex 1, Section C). The CDR M&E report would be based on information gathered and reports
submitted by the DSC. Project M&E activities would have the two-fold objective of generating
information on progress of implementation and on the achievement of project developmental objectives.
Key monitoring indicators are detailed in Annex IV.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01    The activities to be financed under the proposed project would influence agricultural production
in several ways. Land terracing and water harvesting in hill-ponds would be expected to bring about
increases in: (i) cropping intensity from an average of 30 percent to about 100 percent (Annex VI, Table
3), arising from land capability upgrading and improved suitability to high value crops and/or multiple
cropping; (ii) crop yields from an average of 30 to 45 t/ha for tomato, 13 to 18 t/ha for cherries and 23
to 30 t/ha for apples (Annex VI, Table 4), resulting from better plant growth environments (deeper soils,
less rocks) and supplemental irrigation with water conserved in hill-ponds. Agricultural roads would also
bring about increases in: (i) cropping intensity, because early access to farm land and timely crop
establishment would allow farmers to plant most of their landholdings; (ii) crop yields, due to timely crop
husbandry practices and adequate use of production inputs, particularly fertilizers (Annex VI); and (iii)
savings in transportation costs as a result of diminished vehicle operation and maintenance costs. The
Agricultural census would allow the Ministry of Agriculture to formulate sector policies based on reliable
information and more attuned to prevailing sector conditions. Changes in cropping patterns and yields
between the without-project and with-project situations have been captured in crop and one-hectare farm
models and are summarized in Annex VI and detailed in Working Paper No. 3.
VI. MARKETING. PRICES AND INCOME
A. Marketing and Prices
6.01      No major marketing problems are foreseen for the expected incremental production of the
project. The expected agricultural production would reach its peak during year 13 of the project and
would amount annually to about 14,000 t of green-podded almonds, 47,000 t of apples, 29,000 t of
cherries, 11,000 t of olives, 10,000 t of apricots and about 65,000 t of vegetables. Wheat production
would decline by about 2,600 t annually. Import statistics indicate that many types of agricultural produce
including tomatoes are being imported for processing within Lebanon.  Much of the anticipated
incremental production would be easily absorbed within the domestic market, which is expected to require
more high-value agricultural produce as a result of the gradual increase in per capita income and the
growth of the population. A substantial share of the almond, apple and cherry incremental production is
expected to be exported to the Asian, East European and Gulf market. With few exceptions (wheat,
tobacco and sugar beets), prices are market responsive and it could be argued that production is, to a large
extent, determined by market forces and reflects Lebanon's competitive edge. This is particularly the case
for most fruit and vegetable crops grown in the project area. At present, prices of agricultural output do



14                                                Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
not differ considerably from their respective world market levels. On the input side, there are no subsidies
on fertilizers, pesticides or farm machinery. The local prices of fertilizers are slightly above world market
prices. The list of farmgate prices for agricultural outputs and inputs is given in the financial and
economic Working Paper No. 5.
B. Incomes
6.02      Levels of farn  income vary considerably with farm  size, agro-ecological region and
production technologies used by farmers. On the basis of crop models designed to approximate the real
costs of production and crop returns, one-hectare farm models were prepared for each of the five regions
of Lebanon in order to estimate the farm-level benefits that would accrue as a result of the project. An
analysis of these farm models indicates that incomes, in all farm sizes, can be expected to increase
significantly. In areas where land and water development would take place, present incomes for all types
of farms are quite depressed. This is due to the fact that most of the land is currently either in fallow and
out of production (70 percent) or is cropped to subsistence wheat (30 percent), whose income after labor
costs is insignificant. With the project, the production capability of lands would be significantly upgraded
and the income they would generate at full development would become similar to that of rich lands of the
Bekaa plain or the costal areas of Lebanon. During the first five years after investing in land and water
developments and even with the GP's assistance, farm income would be negative. Farm income would
start to cover annual production costs beginning in year six of the project. However, at full development
(year 13), income after labor cost would become relatively high. In North Lebanon, income of a one-
hectare wheat farm is expected to increase from LP 67,000 (US$42.0) to LP 6.3 million (US$3,980.0)
when it is planted with fruit trees. In Mount Lebanon the expected increase would reach LP 14.7 million
(US$9,245.0), and in South Lebanon the increase would reach LP 9.0 million (US$5,660.0). Financial
Internal Rates of Return (IRR) have been calculated for one-hectare fruit farns in the five regions of
Lebanon; they are 20.3 percent for North Lebanon, 30.4 percent for Mount Lebanon, 59.3 percent for
South Lebanon, 21.2 percent for Bekaa North and 36.2 percent for Bekaa South. Incomes of farms to
which access would be improved by the roads built under the project would increase significantly as a
result of increased yields and improved cropping intensification (details are in Working Paper No.3).
Vll. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      The primary benefits of the project would be the incremental agricultural production, the
improved management and conservation of land and water resources, savings on transportation costs and
an updated agricultural sector database. The incremental agricultural production would result from the
sustainable development of land and water resources in mountainous areas and increased agricultural
productivity of lands to which access was improved by the construction of agricultural roads. The
improved management and conservation of land and water resources would be brought about by the
terracing and consolidation of eroded steep-lands, the storage of runoff water in small hill-ponds and a
better interaction between development objectives and environmental concerns.  The savings in
transportation costs would materialize as a result of reduced vehicle and maintenance costs. The updated
agricultural sector database would result from the conduct of a national agricultural census and the
establishment of a permanent sector data updating system.
7.02      Overall project incremental production at full development would be substantial and would
include about 65,000 metric tons of vegetables and 111,000 metric tons of fruit. Because the area devoted
to rainfed wheat would be planted to higher-value fruit tree crops, the production of wheat grain would



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                          15
be reduced by about 2,600 metric tons per year. About 1,300 families would benefit from the agricultural
roads and 8,300 farm families would benefit from the land and water development activities. In total,
about 9,600 farm families or about 75,500 people would profit directly from the project (Annex VI,
Table 2). Poor farmers with small land holdings of less than 0.5 ha would be targeted by the GP through
local committees. The project would reduce the isolation of rural villages through rural road development,
and thereby reduce one of the motives for rural-urban migration. Other benefits, highlighted by the
communities consulted during the participatory process, are better access to work sites, improved health
conditions (by improving travelling conditions for emergency cases), improved comfort of transportation,
and easier access to schools. The need for link roads is most strongly expressed by villages where farmers
still rely on small paths, which only allow animal transit to market their produce or to purchase products
from the towns. Construction or rehabilitation of rural roads would also lead to a reduction of transport
costs, and to savings in transportation and travelling time.
7.03      Environmental benefits and impact.  The project would contribute to environmental
protection through reduced soil erosion and improved water conservation as a result of land terracing and
hill-ponds construction. The farming systems proposed are less destructive than the present systems and
should result in reduced erosion and general land and water degradation. Some increase in the use of
artificial fertilizers and pesticides is envisaged. However, overall usage rates would be low and would be
applied more efficiently following improved extension advice. To assure protection of the environment,
surveys to be conducted by the EIMC and check lists covering environmental aspects would become an
integral part of feasibility studies of all GP activities (para. 3.05).
B. Economic Analysis and Justification
7.04      The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Lebanon and is explicitly
mentioned among the objectives and instruments of the CAS. The project would support the Government
policy for development of rural infrastructure currently implemented by the GP. Through the project,
public sector investment would assist private farmers in developing land that is potentially suitable for
agriculture but is currently left idle, or cultivated with very low intensity, due to slope, rockiness and/or
lack of rural roads. Public sector involvement in cost sharing of land terracing and water storage on
private land is justified by the targeting of poor and remote rural areas with few economic development
alternatives and by the long-term impact of those infrastructures on the preservation of the natural
environment.
7.05      Design Alternatives. The financial profitability of the proposed crops and investments has
been assessed for five agro-ecological zones. Detailed crop and farm budgets (Working Paper No. 3) have
been calculated utilizing FARMOD on the basis of the full land reclamation and development costs,
including Green Plan share of the financing. Although land terracing costs are highly variable depending
on local conditions such as land rockiness and slope, financial rates of return are only moderately sensitive
to variations in the cost of land development. This is due to the fact that land reclamation costs are
relatively modest in comparison with on-farm negative cash flows that farmers must face in the early years
of establishment and maintenance of perennial crops. Stone wall terraces have been selected as the most
appropriate solution for mountainous and rocky areas (slope above 20 percent), while cheaper earth
embankments would be acceptable for areas with slopes under 20 percent. Regarding water storage, earth
hill-ponds costing on average US$1 per m3 of storage, have been selected as the most economical
alternative in mountainous areas.
7.06      Economic Analysis. An economic analysis has been carried for individual roads [results are
in Annex III (b)] to be constructed during the first two years of the project and for the whole project
(Annex III (b)], taking into account incremental agricultural production benefits to be derived from land
reclamation and rural roads construction and savings in vehicle operating cost resulting from the rural



16                                                 Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
roads. On-farm cost and benefit streams are based on aggregated crop budgets and activity models used
in the financial analysis and on the phasing of land reclamation and rural roads. The project's net benefits
are calculated by deducting the without project net benefits, which have been assumed to remain constant
over time.
7.07      The project cost streams are based on economic project costs, excluding taxes and price
contingencies. Civil works have been costed at likely contract prices, and imported equipment has been
costed at CIF prices. Considering that there are no restrictions on the trade of goods and services, that
the Lebanese Pound is freely convertible, and that domestic markets are generally free from price
distortions, no conversion factor has been applied to the project investment cost streams, and the economic
analysis has been carried out taking into account the prevailing exchange rate of US$ I = LLI,590 as
of February 1996. Further details on the methodology and assumptions of the economic analyses are
available in Working paper No. 3. The main fiscal impact of the project will result from incremental
maintenance costs of agricultural roads. These costs would amount to about US$460 thousand per year
at full development.  All other operation and maintenance costs of land terracing and irrigation
infrastructure will be supported entirely by the farmers.
7.08      The overall rate of return of the project, calculated over a 30-year period, is about 24 percent.
The project is expected to generate a net present value of about US$119 million discounted at the
opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. Considering that only agricultural production benefits and
savings on transport costs from the roads have been taken into account in the analysis, this suggests that
the project is economically viable. The project would also bring other social, environmental and
institutional benefits which cannot be readily quantified.
C. Proiect Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
7.09      Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis. The project could face two major risks. The first
is at the individual farmer level and is related to the uncertainty of achieving anticipated agricultural
benefits in a timely manner. This would be caused by potential delays in the completion of agricultural
investments by farmers, poor maintenance of orchards and possible fluctuations in product prices. As in
the past, this risk would be mitigated during the selection of project beneficiaries by giving first priority
to farmers who plan to complete the entire investment within two years of completion of works for which
GP assistance was obtained. Before receiving the GP's assistance, farmers would commit themselves in
writing to complete the investment within two years. Failing that, they would reimburse to the treasury
the financial assistance they received from the GP. In addition, the past 30 years' experience on which
the present project is built show that, in reality, this risk is minimal and that most farmers complete their
investments on time and maintain their orchards properly. The risk of fluctuation in product prices cannot
be mitigated entirely. The second potential risk is related to the maintenance of agricultural rural roads,
which used to be a problem during the period of civil strife. During negotiations. it was agreed that local
budgetarv resources would be made available by the Borrower to maintain the roads built by the GP [para.
8.01 (h)]. In the long-term, the significant allocation of funds made to the Muhafazats offices (Governors
offices) and Deputies of the various regions of Lebanon for the specific purpose of roads maintenance
would ensure the adequate maintenance of agricultural roads. The sensitivity analysis indicates that the
economic analysis is relatively sensitive to assumptions made on on-farm benefits. The ERR would be
reduced to 12 percent by a decrease of 26 percent in farm benefits. However, because the assumptions
made on crop yields are quite conservative, the probability that the accrued benefits would be lower than
those assumed is considered low. On the other hand, the economic results of the project are quite resistant
to variations in project cost; investment cost would have to increase by 36 percent to reduce the ERR to
12 percent.



Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project                                            17
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      The following agreements have been reached at negotiations:
(a) the GP would maintain cost-sharing arrangements at a level satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.09);
(b) the GP has created an Environmental Information and Monitoring Committee (EIMC) to
carry out environmental assessments and monitor project activities (para. 2.12);
(c) the GP would select land and water development activities according to agreed criteria
(Annex I, para. 3);
(d) the GP would select agricultural roads on the basis of agreed criteria (Annex 1, para. 3);
(e) within regions, the GP's regional offices would target needy villages and communities, and
within targeted villages and communities, the GP would work with local community leaders
to target their neediest residents (para. 2.15);
(f) for all expenses made on the basis of SOEs, GOL would (i) maintain records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) ensure that all records evidencing such expenditures are
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the last audit report; (iii) have each
fiscal-year's records and accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to Bank; and
(iv) furnish to the Bank the audit reports (para. 3.13);
(g) the GP and the CDR would: (i) have their project records, accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited and (ii) furnish to the Bank certified copies of its
financial statements for such year and the reports of such audits (para. 3.13);
(h) funds from the local budget would be utilized by the Borrower to maintain the roads built
by the GP (para. 7.09);
(i) the GP would submit semi-annual reports in March and September of each year as well
as an action program for land and water development and agricultural roads each year (Annex
I, para. 2);
(j) in September of each project year and starting in 1997, the DSC would prepare an annual
action program for the agriculture census and IMS activities planned for the following
calendar year (Annex 1, para. 6);
(k) the CDR would establish a committee to coordinate the implementation of the institutional
support to the DSC (Annex I, para. 7);
(I) the MOA would maintain the recently created Agricultural Census Steering Committee
(Annex 1, para. 7);
(m) the GP would consult and coordinate its project activities with MOA's Directorate of
Rural Development and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Environment (MOE) and NGOs
(Annex 1, para. 7); and



18                                             Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
(n) the GP and the CDR would each submit: (i) a detailed progress report for the mid-term
review by December 31, 1999; and (ii) an Implementation Completion Report not later than
six months after the project completion date (Annex 1, para. 10).
8.02      With the above assurances from the Government, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$31 million equivalent.



ANNEX I
Page I of S
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
A. Institutional Arrangements
1.       The project would be implemented by two agencies, the Green Plan and the Council for
Development and Reconstruction. The GP would be responsible for implementing the land and water
development component (SAR para. 3.02), the agricultural roads component (SAR para. 3.03) and the
subcomponents related to the creation of the Environmental Infornation and Monitoring Committee [SAR
para. 3.05 (a)] and its own institutional strengthening subcomponent [SAR para. 3.05 (b)]. The CDR
would be responsible for the implementation of the institutional support subcomponents of the Ministry
of Agriculture. These subcomponents include the conduct of the national agricultural census [SAR para.
3.06 (a)] and the establishment of an information management system and documentation center [SAR
para. 3.06 (b)]. The GP and CDR would be in charge, each with regard to the components under its
responsibility, of developing annual work plans. clearing annual work plans with the Bank, procurement.
disbursement of project funds. keeping proiect accounts and reporting on the progress of their components.
To allow for proper staffing and the smooth implementation of the added load of activities brought on by
the project, it was agreed that the GP and the DSC of MOA would recruit additional contractual staff and
give salary incentives to deserving staff (as indicated in the detailed cost tables for each activity).
The Green Plan
2.        The GP would have full responsibility for the implementation of the land and water
development and agricultural roads components. For both of these demand-driven activities, the GP would
continue to deal with potential beneficiaries' requests for assistance on the basis of existing procedures
(appendix 1). It would be responsible for overall planning, evaluation and monitoring of all the project
activities for which it is responsible. It would also be in charge of conducting technical, socio-economic
and environmental feasibility studies and designs either by its own staff or through the use of consultants.
When requests for assistance are received from farmers or from rural communities, the GP's regional
offices would conduct the necessary preliminary studies and include the request in the waiting list. Each
project year starting in 1997, the GP's regional offices would formulate action programs detailing the
required budget and the activities they plan to implement during the following year. These action
programs would be consolidated, verified and approved by the GP's Executive Committee. The GP would
submit semi-annual reports in March and September of each year to report on project progress and inform
on its annual Programs for land and water development and agricultural roads. The GP would submit in
the semi-annual report (due in September) of each proiect year. starting in 1997, the consolidated action
program for land and water development of the following calendar year to the Bank for review and
clearance [para. 8.01 (i)]. Disbursement for the 1997 land and water development activities would be
approved with the clearance, at project effectiveness, of the 1997 action program. Disbursement for
subsequent years would be approved when annual action programs for land and water development are
cleared by the Bank in september of each year, starting in September, 1997. For agricultural roads, and
since the first two-year program has already been appraised, disbursement for this program can proceed
as soon as the project becomes effective. Disbursement for subsequent years would be approved when
annual action programs for agricultural roads are cleared by the Bank in March of each year, starting in
1998. The GP would submit. in its semi-annual report of March of each proiect year. starting in 1998,



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
the consolidated action program agricultural roads for the following calendar year to the Bank for review
and clearance [para. 8.01 (i)].
3.        The selection of activities to be financed by the project and the identification of farmers and
communities that would receive the GP's cost-sharing assistance would be done according to current GP
procedures and a set of agreed criteria. A new pilot procedure would be tested at various locations to
improve the targeting of project benefits towards the poor; this pilot procedure is described in para. 4
below. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the GP would select land and water
development activities and agricultural roads on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank. For land and
water development, the criteria are: (i) land terracing and development not to take place in areas where
the slope is above 40 percent and rockiness exceeds 60 per cent of soil cover; (ii) beneficiaries of GP
assistance to commit themselves to finance and complete remaining development investments within two
years of works implemented through GP assistance; (iii) GP not to assist in land and water development
in areas intended for urbanization or industrial development; (iv) GP not to assist in land development on
national forests and protected bio-diversity areas or in areas within 500 meters of these forests and
protected areas; (v) a minimum Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 12 per cent [para. 8.01 (c)]. For
agricultural roads, these criteria would include: (i) the beneficiary population would participate in sharing
the cost of the roads by voluntarily giving, without compensation, the land on which the road would be
constructed; (ii) road design and alignment to take into account, inter alia, the mitigation indicated in the
environmental assessment summary checklist of the road feasibility study; (iii) a minimum Economic Rate
of Return (ERR) of 12 per cent; and (iv) responsibility for road maintenance would be assumed by the
Borrower and local budget allocations secured before roads are constructed [para. 8.01 (d)].  In
undertaking the required environmental reviews, and in addition to conducting its own flora and wildlife
studies for specific agricultural roads, the EIMC would make use of available information (from UNDP
and UNEP Projects) that describes the distribution, status and significance of natural and agricultural
biodiversity in Lebanon.
4.        According to current GP policy, project financial resources would, in principle, be divided
equally among the four regions of Lebanon (North Lebanon, Mount Lebanon, South Lebanon and the
Bekaa). However, it was agreed that the GP executive committee may allocate up to 20 percent more
resources to regions where farmers' demand for assistance are high. It was further agreed that within
regions, the GP's regional offices would target needful villages and communities, and that within targeted
villages and communities, the Green Plan would work with local committees to prioritize the poor and
target project assistance to those most in need. The participation and involvement of populations through
elected representatives (municipalities, cooperatives, village associations, etc.) would be used by the GP's
regional offices to increase their capacity to identify and target needful families. Representatives of
populations would, for example help to: (i) differentiate between farmers who rely on farming to make
a living from those who have additional sources of income; and (ii) determine which potential
beneficiaries of the project are the poorest. However, project activities would benefit the Lebanese
farming population at large and would not be focused exclusively on the poor.
The Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR)
5.        As indicated above, the CDR would have full responsibility for the implementation of the
components aimed at strengthening the Directorate of studies and Coordination of the MOA [SAR para.
3.06 (a) and (b)]. The CDR would have responsibility for contracting the technical assistance necessary
for the execution of the national agricultural census by the DSC. The CDR is in the process of negotiating
a contract with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations to provide assistance
to the DSC in the execution of the planning and preparatory phase of the agricultural census. MOA has



ANNEX I
Page 3 of S
expressed a preference for the FAO, which may be awarded a new contract under the AIDP financing,
to provide TA to DSC for the implementation of phases 2 and 3 of the census. In addition, the CDR
would provide advice and support to the GP (as requested by the GP) in the preparation, evaluation and
execution of procurement through ICB procedures. The CDR has the capacity to undertake these functions
through its existing Program Management Unit (PMU) established under the Bank-financed Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project. In case the PMU ceases to exist, the CDR would put in place
alternative implementation arrangements that are satisfactory to the Bank. Tender process and contracting
for the construction and equipment of the Ghazir center would be undertaken by the CDR. For ease of
operation, procurement of items with a value of less than US$10,000 equivalent would be implemented
directly by the DSC under delegation from the CDR.
The Directorate of Studies and Coordination (DSC)
6.        The DSC of the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for the field execution of the
National Agricultural Census and the establishment of a permanent system for agricultural statistics
including the creation of the Information Management System (IMS) and documentation center at Ghazir.
The DSC would require a significant amount of Technical Assistance (TA) for the implementation of the
Census. This TA would be procured by the CDR for the DSC under one package. The permanent system
for agricultural statistics would evolve from upgrading the capacity of the existing statistical service within
the DSC. Information gathering for the census would be undertaken by enumerators hired by the DSC;
they would be supervised by existing MOA staff and by incremental contractual staff to be recruited under
the project. The processing of the census data and cross-tabulations would be executed on computer
systems purchased under the project. The analysis of the data and publication of the census results would
be the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. The DSC would also be responsible for the
execution of the IMS and the operation of the documentation center at Ghazir. Detailed designs for the
Ghazir center are already under preparation by architects working for MOA. In September of each proiect
year starting in 1997. the DSC would prepare an annual action program for the agriculture census and IMS
activities planned for the following calendar year. This annual action program would then be submitted
for review and clearance by the Bank. through the CDR [para. 8.01 (1)].
Coordination Arrangements
7.        A Proiect Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established. The CDR would establish
a committee to coordinate the implementation of the subcomponents related to the provision of
institutional support to the DSC [para. 8.01 (m)]. It would meet twice a year in March and September
to review project progress and to sanction the annual action plans and progress reports prepared by the
DSC and the consultant providing the technical assistance to the execution of the agricultural census. The
PCC would be headed by a representative of the CDR and would include a member of the DSC of MOA.
In addition, there is an imperative need to ensure that a consensus exists among the concerned agencies
and users of agricultural statistics, including the private sector and academia, on the methodology and
goals to be achieved by the proposed national agricultural census. For this purpose, the MOA would
maintain the recently created Agricultural Census Steering Committee, which would be responsible for
reviewing and approving the statement of obiectives and methodologv of the proposed census as well as
for the supervision of the data analysis and publication of the census results [para. 8.01 (n)]. The
committee is headed by the Director General of Statistics (in the Office of the president of the Council
Of Ministers) and its executive secretariat is assured by the Director General of MOA. In order to
coordinate land and water development activities and agricultural roads and optimize environmental
benefits, the GP would coordinate its proiect activities with MOA's Directorate of Rural Development and
Natural Resources, the Ministry Of Environment (MOE) and NGOs [para. 8.01 (m)]. This committee



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
would be headed by the Chief of the GP's Environmental Information and Monitoring Committee (EIMC)
and include representatives from MOA, the MOE and NGOs such as the Muawadh Foundation.
B. Implementation and Supervision Plan
8.        The project would be implemented over a six-year period. An implementation schedule is
given in Appendix 2. The 70 km-program of agricultural roads already defined would be implemented
during the first two years of the project (SAR - Annex III). For land and water development and
rehabilitation activities, farmer and community requests for which studies have been completed by the end
of March of each year would be implemented during the spring and summer of that year. For agricultural
roads and during the first year of the project, studies, designs and tender documents would be completed
for the agricultural roads to be implemented in year 3 of the project and their bidding procedure would
be completed in year 2 of the project. In years 2 and 3 of the project, designs and bidding process would
be completed for the year-4-program of roads. The IMS of the DSC and the agricultural census would
be completed in years 3 and 5 respectively. Phase one of the census ( development of methodology,
planning and staff training), under financing from the on-going Bank-financed Irrigation Rehabilitation
and Modernization Project, would start during the second half of 1996. Phase two (methodology,
recruitment of staff, conduct of census) and phase three (data inputting, analysis and publication of results)
of the census would be financed under the AIDP and would take a total of 4 years to complete.
Borrower Contribution
9.        The GP and the CDR would be responsible for coordinating the arrangements for review
missions by the Bank and other co-financiers and for providing the information required by missions. At
least one member of the GP's executive committee and the Director of the DSC would accompany review
mission to the field and participate in project reviews. Semi-annual Rrogress reports would be submitted
at the end of March and September of each proiect-year by the GP for its activities and by the MOA's
DSC (through the CDR). These reports would focus on: (i) the status of physical progress in agricultural
roads, land and water development and institutional support activities, including the conduct of the
agricultural census etc.; (ii) the status of award of contracts for civil works and procurement of goods; (iii)
progress in the conduct of studies, designs and tendering of works and activities to be implemented during
the coming semester; (iv) the status of technical assistance, studies and training; (v) brief summary of
information on various key project monitoring indicators; (vi) the annual work program and budgetary
requirement for local funds; (vii) the status of the Bank disbursement, including pending withdrawal
applications and project expected disbursement for the following semester; (viii) a summary of actions
taken in response to issues raised during the previous supervision mission; and (ix) the status of other
issues, such as legal covenants, accounts and audit and project staffing.
Bank Supervision Missions
10.       Review missions would normally be held twice a year, except for the first year when an
additioiial project-launch mission would be undertaken immediately after project effectiveness.
Supervision missions would normally take place when semi-annual reports have been produced by the
Borrower's agencies (after March and September of each year). Staffing of project-launch and supervision
missions during the first year of the project would include the Task Manager (Agriculturist), a Civil
Engineer, a Soil and Water Conservation Specialist, a Statistician, an Economist and a Monitoring and
Evaluation Specialist and would require a total input of about 20 staff-weeks (sws) for the first year. For
subsequent supervisions, the inputs of a Civil/Roads Engineer, an Agriculturist and a Statistician would
be required. Supervision missions would also make use of local and international expertise made available



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
to the project by the technical assistance component. A mid-term review of all project activities would
be conducted jointly by the GP, the CDR, the DSC, the Bank and IFAD. In preparation for the mid-term
review, the GP and the CDR, assisted by the DSC, would prepare a detailed report for submission to the
World Bank by December 31, 1999; the mid-term review would take place in March, 2000. In addition
to the above, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the GP and the CDR and
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the project completion date. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that the GP and the CDR would each submit: (i) a detailed progress report for
the mid-term review by December 31, 1999; and (ii) an Implementation Completion Report not later than
six months after the proiect completion date [para. 8.1 (n)].
C. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
11.      The M&E of project achievements would be the responsibility of the GP and the CDR (the
CDR M&E report would be based on information gathered and reports submitted by the DSC). Project
M&E activities would have the two-fold objective of generating information on progress of
implementation and on the achievement of project developmental objectives. For the GP-executed
activities, implementation progress would be assessed on the basis of achievement per region of the annual
work program targets in terms of number of km of roads constructed, number of hectares terraced, number
of m2 of retaining stone wall constructed, etc. Periodic surveys would be carried out to monitor the use
of terraced and developed lands, production performance and farm incomes. For the DSC-executed
activities, implementation progress would be assessed on the basis of the completion of various phases of
the NAC and the establishment of the IMS and documentation center at Ghazir. A set of monitoring
indicators are listed in Annex 3. The GP and the CDR would include in their respective semi-annual and
annual progress reports information on key target indicators and analyze project constraints giving
proposals for their resolution.



I



ANNEX I
ADpendix I
Page I of 2
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJET
Green Plan Current Procedures
1.      Since its inception, the Green Plan has adopted a demand-driven approach to the conduct of its
activities. The GP focussed specifically on the development of privately-owned lands and on improving
access to isolated rural areas. To implement its mandate, it enters into a partnership with farmers, to share
with them the cost of land development and natural resources conservation activities.
2.      The procedure used by the GP to serve the rural communities is relatively simple. For land
terracing and water resources conservation, requests for assistance are made by individual farmers by
completing a standard form provided by the GP. When the budgetary resources are likely to become
available, the development proposal is reviewed by the GP's regional staff (between January and March
of each year) and if approved goes to GP headquarters, where it is verified and signed by the GP's
executive committee members. The approved and signed request is then reviewed, as are all requests for
assistance submitted to the GP, by a resident auditor (controleur financier) from the Ministry of Finance
(MOF). Before the works start (usually in May of each year), farmers are informed of their share of the
financing and are requested to deposit the calculated amount at the treasury. After receiving the treasury
deposit slip, the GP proceeds with hiring contractors (for mechanical works such as earth moving and
ripping) or allowing farmers themselves to initiate the manual works (such as terrace retaining wall
construction, concrete reservoir construction and tree planting). Mechanical works for land terracing are
awarded to private contractors through advertised tenders indicating the price the GP would pay for the
earth moving works under various conditions. Interested contractors come to GP headquarters and are
given through mutual agreement a contract for works in a given region. After completion of the works
contractors are paid directly by the GP.
3.      With respect to agricultural roads, farner groups (20 to 30 farmers per km of road, i.e. about
30 ha of agricultural land) or communitie organize themselves and make a written request to the GP for
an agricultural road. In their request, farmers inform the GP that they donate the land on which the road
would be constructed. With the request in hand, the GP's regional office conducts a preliminary study and
alignment of the road and verifies with local authorities, communities and with the farmer group itself the
needs, commitment and feasibility of the road. Once this is confirmed, the proposed road is included in
the waiting list. When funds become available, proposed roads are entered in the work program on a first-
come, first-served basis. Their feasibility and design study is given to private consulting firms and the
GP starts the process of voluntary expropriation of the lands on which the road would pass. When all
farmers agree to give up their share of the land for the road, a presidential decree is issued for the
expropriation. The road designs are verified by the GP staff, who prepare bid documents and advertize
and tender the works on a competitive system. Past experience indicates that after the road is constructed,
beneficiary communities who have supposedly committed themselves to its maintenance, are usually
unable to honor their commitments. Until recently, the GP was not mandated or funded to maintain the
agricultural roads it builds. As a result, many of the roads built in the past are in urgent need of repair.
The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) has the responsibility and would maintain all the agricultural roads
that would either connect two existing secondary roads or lead to a village. For the remaining "non-
classified" agricultural roads, the GP needs to receive before negotiations, a clear mandate from the



ANNEX I
ApDendix I
Page 2 of 2
concerned Ministries for their maintenance. The financial costs of road maintenance have been included
in the project.
4.       Present Cost-Sharing Arrangements. Under present cost-sharing arrangements, farners
participate by sharing with the GP the costs of land development and conservation (land terracing,
retaining walls construction) and water resources mobilization and conservation (hill ponds, concrete
reservoirs, localized irrigation systems). For agricultural roads, farmners participate by donating free of
charge the land required for the road. Under these arrangements, all farmers who can produce the required
proof of ownership (or a seven-year lease of titled land) of the land they wish to develop, are eligible to
receive a grant from the Government through the GP. The main features of present cost-sharing
arrangements between Government (Green Plan) and beneficiary farners are as follows:
(a) A one-time aggregate ceiling amount per farmer of LL10 million (US$6,289). This
total amount can be drawn upon in one or several installments and applies throughout the
farmer's entire lifetime; and
(b) Farmer's contribution is related to the total cost estimate of the development work he
wants to undertake.
Cost-Sharing Levels at Various Development Costs
Size of Area Developed              Farner Contribution (% of Cost)
"Eligible Coste'      Real Costs'
0.5 ha                               13.0%              57%
1.5 ha                               35.0%              68%
2.0 ha                               67.5%              84%
3.0 ha                               78.0%              89%
a/  Cover only the cost of land terracing, retaining walls, soil ripping, rock removal,
hill-pond construction and localized irrigation system; total cost about
LL 13 million per ha (US$8,175.0).
_/  Covers in addition to a/ the cost of soil preparation, basic fertilization, planting,
seedlings, replacement of trees, crop establishment cost, etc.; approximate total
of LL 26 million per ha (US$16,350.0).



ANNEX I
Appendix 2
Page I of 6
REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Responsibilities and
Tentative Schedule
Implementation Agencies              Target Dates
Project  Actions               __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
CDR    GP    MOA    WB    IFAD            Start/Completion
1. Project Processing
World Bank loan approval                                                X              Sept. 1996
IFAD loan approval                                                              X      April 1997
Follow Up on Loans/Project documents           X       X       X                       Oct. 1996 (WB)
signature by Government                                                                May 1996 (IFAD)
Submission of Loans documents for Council of   X                5                     Nov. 1996 (WB)
Ministers and Parliamentary approvals                                                  June 1997 (IFAD)
Securing project investment counterpart funds  X       X                               Jan. 1997
for DSC (by CDR) and GP (by GP) activities                  _
Securing project recurrent counterpart funds for       X                               January of each
land and water development and Ag. roads and                                           project year
other GP activities (GP annual budget)
Securing project recurrent counterpart funds for               X                       January of each
agricultural census and other DSC activities                                           project year
(MOA annual budget)
Parliamentary approval                         x       S        S                      Feb. 97 (WB Loan)
Oct. 97 (IFAD)
Declaration of project effectiveness                                    X       X      Immediately after
ratification by
Parliament.
Project launch                                 x       x       x        x       x      March 1997
II. Project Implementation
A. Land and Water Development and Agricultural Roads Comrnnents:
Screening farmers and community requests for           X                               January to June each
assistance                                                                            year
Fornation of land and water and agriculture            X                               September of each
roads annual work programs                                                             year
Formulation of annual work program for agrl.                   X                       September of each
census and Inf. Mgmt. System activities                                                year



ANNEX I
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 6
Implementation Agencies             Target Dates
Project Actions
CDR    GP    MOA    WB    IFAD            Start/Completion
Review and clearance of annual work programs                           C       C      Sept. of each year
Preparation of component-specific semi-annual         x        x                      March and September
project reports                                                                      each year
Procurement: Responsibility for contracts for         x                C       C     For all prior review
land and water development activities (includine                                     contracts
procurement of seedlings) and agricultural roads
Preparation of terms of reference, technical          X                C       C      February to June each
specifications and tender documents for                                              project year
technical and feasibility studies to be executed
by consultants for agricultural roads
Conduct of investment feasibility study,              X                C       C     February to June each
environmental impact assessment and approval                                          project year
land and water development assistance and
agricultural roads construction
Preparation of pre-qualification documents (if        X                C             As necessary
applicable
Review and clearance of GP's annual                                    C              February of each year
invitations to small contractors to submit bids
for ranking them towards award of contracts for
mechanical services to construct land terraces
and hill-ponds
Review and clearance of ranking of contractors                         C             As required
for terracing and hill-ponds
Review recommendation for contract award for                           C             As required
any single contract for terracing and hill-ponds
mechanical works with a value of more than
LL 80 million (US$50,000 equivalent)
Conduct semi-annual post-review of award of                            C              April and October of
small contracts with a value of more than                                            each project year
US$12,500 equivalent for terracing and hill-
ponds works and US$75,000 for agrl. roads
Review and clearance of bidding documents for                          C              one month before
all road tenders with a value of more                                                scheduled bid
thanUS$100,000 equivalent                                                             advertizing
Advertise and issue bidding documents                  x                              60 days before bid
opening
Open and evaluate submitted bids and                  X                               Within 30 days of
recommend award of contracts                                                          bid opening



ANNEXI
AMpendix 2
Page 3 of 6
Implementation Agencies             Target Dates
Project Actions
CDR    GP    MOA    WB    IFAD            Start/Completion
Review and clearance of bidding evaluation and                         C              Two weeks before
no-objection to award of all road contracts with                                     contract award
a value of more than US$100,000 equivalent                                  ___
Award contracts                                       X                               After receipt of WB
no-objection
Follow up with contractor, supervise and              X                               As required
monitor execution of contracts and act on legal
issues with contractors
Accept delivery of works and authorize                X                               At completion of
payment                                                                               works
Execution of payment to contractors                   x                              As required
Send SOEs and withdrawal applications to              x                              As required
World Bank to replenish Special Account
Monitor and evaluate project's land and water         X                               Continuous process,
activities and their development impact,                                             annual evaluation
including farmers' compliance with timely                                            every following year
completion of development investments                                                in March
Monitor and evaluate agricultural roads               X                              Continuous process
activities and their impact on agricultural
production and farners' income
Ensure maintenance of roads built                     X                              April to August each
year
Prepare, advertize, evaluate tenders and award  S     X                C
contracts for all ICB procurement for the land
and water and agrl. roads components
B. Institutional Support to:
MOA's Directorate of Studies and coordination                  xi                    January 1997
for formulating the methodology and terms of
reference for the conduct of the National
Agricultural Census
Review of terms of reference for TA to                        Xi                     March 1977
undertake National Agricultural Census
I/ Drafted by technical assistance and reviewed and cleared by the National Agricultural Census Technical Committee
(NACTC) which is headed by the Director of Statistics Department of the Council of Ministers Office and includes
members from the MOA, CDR, MOF-Land Cadastral Office, private sector and a representative from one Lebanese
university.



ANNEX I
Appendix 2
Page 4 of 6
Implementation Agencies             Target Dates
CDR    GP    MOA    WB    IFAD            Start/Completion
Prepare technical specification for goods and                  X                     March 1977
TORs for services
Advertise and evaluate tenders                 X               S                     August 1977
Review and give no-objection to all final tender                       C             June 1977 and later
documents, bid evaluations and recommenda-                                           on as required
tions for awarding contracts for all ICB
contracts and for contracts with a value of
US$150,000 for works and goods and
US$50,000 for individual consultants and
US$100,000 for consulting firms
Award all contracts for this component after   X                       C             September 1977
WB clearance and follow up with contractors
Accept delivery of works, goods and services                   X                     As required
and authorize payment
Execute payment                                X                                     As required
Send SOEs and withdrawal applications to       X               S                     As required
World Bank to replenish Special Account     _        _              _       __l
Recruitment of technical assistants (FAO) to   X               S                     January 1977
continue with the conduct of the National
Agricultural Census (NAC)
Award new contract to FAO or extend existing   x               s       C             March 1977
contract with FAO2 to continue provision of
technical assistance for the conduct of the
agricultural census
Monitor and evaluate progress of NAC                          X                      Through 1997, 1998,
1999
Allocating incentives to national staff at the                 x                      1977, 1988, 1999
DSC and to technical committee members from
the local budget
Procurement of eligible small items (less than                 x                     As required
US$10,000 equivalent) through local shopping     _        _
Analyze and edit results of National                          X4                      1988 and 1999
Agricultural Census
2/ Existing contract with FAO is financed under the World Bank/lFAD-financed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
3/ By the National Agricultural Census Technical Committee.
4/ By the Directorate of Studies and Coordination through FAO as a contractor for technical assistance to undertake the
agricultural census.



ANNEXI
Avpendix 2
Page 5 of 6
Implementation Agencies             Target Dates
IProject Actions-                       -  .I_ _ _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _
CDR    GP    MOA    WB    IFAD            Start/Completion
Ensure publication of results of agricultural                  X                      1999
census and maintain and upgrade agricultural
sector database
C. Institutional SupPort to the Green Plan to bIDlement Project Activities
Formulation of terms of reference for all             X                               June 1977
technical assistance required by the GP
Review and no-objection to TORs                                        C             July 1977
Pre-qualification, recruitment and award of           X                               As necessary
contracts for technical assistance with contracts
of less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract
Pre-qualification, recruitment and award of            X               C              As necessary
contracts for technical assistance with contracts
of more than USS30,000 equivalent per contract   _
Formulation of technical specification for all        X                C              January 1977
specialized equipment                                                       _______
Procurement of equipment and vehicles under    S      X                C              September 1977
ICB
Award of ICB contracts, follow up with         s      x                C              Sept. 1977 and as
contractors and take legal action as required  _                                      necessary thereafter
Accept delivery of equipment and authorize     S      X                               As necessary
payment
Allocating incentives to national GP staff from       X                               Throughout project
the local budget                                                                      life
D. Proiect Coordination. Disbursement, Accounts and Reporting
Chairing and secretariat of PCC for MOA        X               s                      March and Sept. of
component                                                                             each year
Reviewing annual work programs and progress    X               S       C              March and Sept. of
for agricultural census and IMS component                                             each year
Management of project special accounts         x      x                              Throughout project
life
Withdrawal of project proceeds                 X      X                              As required
Maintaining project accounts                   X      X                              Throughout project
life



ANNEXI
Appendix 2
Page 6 of 6
Implementation Agencies             Target Dates
Project Actions
CDR    GP    MOA    WB    IFAD          Start/Completion
Audit reports                                 X      X                             September of each
project year starting
in Sept. 1998
Preparation of Project ICR                    x      x       x                     December 2002
X     Preparation/Responsibility
S     Support
C     Clearance
CDR  Council for Development and Reconstruction
GP   Green Plan
MOA  Ministry of Agriculture, Directorate of Studies and Coordination (DSC)
WB   World Bank
ICR   Project Implementation Completion Report



ANNEXI
Apjendix 3
Page 1 of 3
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INERASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJET
Procurement
1.       Procurement responsibilities would be vested in the GP and the CDR. The GP would be
responsible for all procurement, including ICB, relevent to the land and water development, agricultural
roads and its own institutional strengthening sub-component. The CDR would be in charge of all
procurements relevant to the sub-component of MOA's DSC. The GP has had extensive experience with
implementing small works packages for agricultural roads as well as land and water development activities
that would be financed by the proposed project. The DSC, however, has not had such extensive
experience with procuremea1t and would need the support of the CDR and the institutional strengthening
planned under the project. All goods and works to be financed from the proceeds of the Bank's loan
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits. The procedures to be adopted are given below and procurement arrangements are summarized
in the attached table.
2.        Civil Works. Several procurement arrangements are envisaged: (i) Civil works contracts for
agricultural roads would generally be of a small size, and even when packaging was possible,would have
a maximum contract size of about US$0.5 million. These contracts would be scattered throughout the five
regions of Lebanon and would not attract the interest of international contractors. The rural roads
component and the documentation center building, estimated to cost US$0.35 million, would be
implemented according to National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank, using
standard bidding documents modelled after the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for smaller works.
(ii) Implementation of the land and water conservation and development component, which consists of
small and scattered parcels of land terracing and hill reservoir construction, would not be susceptible to
normal contracting procedures. The current contracting procedures for these works (referred to as
mechanical works) is to parcel out annual work loads to small individual contractors in each area. The
cost of each parcel is based on unit rates set up by the GP and finally negotiated with a short list of
contractors. The GP would introduce the necessary modifications to its current direct contracting practices
for mechanical works in land terracing and hill-ponds by small local contractors, to make the process
acceptable to the Bank. To make the process more competitive and transparent, GP would, for works
implemented under the project, advertize annually and invite contractors to submit bids. The annual
advertisements would include scope of work in each region and area, volume of works and base unit rates
proposed by GP. Contractors would return their bids specifying percentage increase or decrease to the
base rates they would be prepared to accept, equipment available to them, volume of works they would
be prepared to undertake and areas they would be prepared to work in. Based on the submitted bids, the
GP would select the lowest evaluated bidders for each region and area and draw up a priority list of
contractors to award works to. (iii) Construction of stone terrace-retaining walls and concrete basins
would be implemented by local communities with GP supervision. (iv) Where no suitable arrangements
for NCB procedures for civil works(land terracing and hill ponds) are possible, construction may be
undertaken by beneficiaries under Green Plan's supervision and cost sharing arrangements in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1.2 million
equivalent.
3.        Equipment and Vehicles. All equipment and materials estimated to cost more than US$0.15
million equivalent per contract, mainly equipment for surveying, office equipment, computers, audio visual



ANNEXI
Apvendix 3
Page 2 of 3
equipment, GIS equipment, and vehicles (with the exception of the first four vehicles needed to expedite
project start-up) would all be procured under ICB procedures. For purposes of economy and efficiency
in procurement, the requirements of the project would, where feasible, be packaged into contracts greater
than US$0.15 million in value. Lebanese manufacturers competing under ICB would receive a preference
in bid evaluation in accordance with Appendix 2 of the IBRD Procurement Guidelines. International
shopping (IS) with at least three quotations from at least two eligible source countries would be used for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$0.15 million equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.6 million equivalent. National shopping (NS) would be used for the procurement of off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$50,000 per contract and for the four vehicles required for project start-up, up
to an aggregate amount of US$0.30 million equivalent. Direct contracting (DC) would be allowed for
items of a proprietary nature or items required to ensure compatibility with existing equipment up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.10 million equivalent. Seedlings and irrigation equipment would be purchased
directly by farmers under GP technical supervision and cost sharing arrangements.
4.        Technical Assistance and Training. Engaging consultants to support project implementation
agencies and to conduct studies, engineering and supervision work would be in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an
executing agency (August 1981), using the Bank's Standardized Letter of Invitation (LOI) and sample
forms of Contract for Consultants' Services. The project would provide for a total of about 120 person-
months of consulting services of which about 65 person-months would be of local consultants. Training
services would be obtained mainly through local universities and training institutions or through
specialized UN agencies.
5.        Procurement Review. All contracts for goods awarded through ICB and all consultant
appointments above US$ 50,000 for individual consultants and US$100,000 for firms would be subject
to prior Bank review. Civil works for rural roads components would be subject to prior review for single
contracts with a value above US$100,000. Single contracts for mechanized works for land and water
development with a value of more than US$50,000 are subject to prior review. All other contracts would
be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank. It is estimated that these limits would result in prior
review of about 50 percent of total contract value. This relatively low coverage by prior review is
justified by the high number of repetitive contracts for land and water conservation and for rural roads,
as well as a high intensity of post review covering about 40 percent of contract value.
6.        Procurement Arrangements for CDR Implemented Components on Behalf of Ministry
of Agriculture. Procurement by the CDR would be undertaken according to Bank guidelines and be
consistent with the procedure to be followed by the GP where applicable.



ANNEX I
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 3
Summary of Proposed Procurement arrangements
Procurement Method
Procurement Category                  ICB           NCB        OTHER           N.B.FY    TOTAL
Civil Works                                         25.0            3.3 5'     12.01'       40.3
(20.0)         (0.4)                   (20.4)
Orchard Establishment                                               4.96'                    4.9
(3.9)                    (3.9)
Additional Investment by                                                        44.8        44.8
Farmers
Equipment and Vehicles                 1.6                          1.0"i                    2.6
(1.3)1'                     (0.8)                    (2.1)
Technical Assistance                                                1.12'                    1.1
(Consultant Services)                                              (I. 1)                   (1.1)
Training                                                            0.72'                    0.7
(0.7)                    (0.7)
Studies, Engineering                                                2.83'                    2.8
and Supervision                                                   (2.8)                    (2.8)
Incremental Operating                                                            7.68'       7.6
TOTAL                              1.6          25.0           13.8         64.4       104.8
(1.3)        (20.0)         (9.7)                   (31.0)
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
' Figures in parentheses represent amounts financed by the Bank.
2' Non-Bank financed (Government, Farmers and IFAD).
2' Consultants and TA Services recruited in accordance to Bank's Consultant Guidelines.
4/ Financed by IFAD for the construction of terrace-retaining walls.
5/  For construction of small concrete basins by the local communities under G.P. supervision
and according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
6/ Seedlings and irrigation equipment purchased by farmers under GP technical supervision and
cost sharing arrangements.
'  International shopping, national shopping and direct contracting (I.S. = US$0.60 million.
N.S. = US$0.30 million, D.C. = US$0.10 million).
' Project Recurrent Costs






ANNEXI
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 3
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements
1.       The proposed Bank loan of US$31.0 million would be disbursed against the categories and
at the rates indicated in table below. Disbursement would be made against full documentation, except for
payment against contracts of less than US$150,000 equivalent for goods, US$100,000 equivalent for
works, US$50,000 for mechanized works for land and water development, US$100,000 equivalent for
services with consulting firms and US$50,000 for services with individual consultants (including training
and studies), which would be reimbursed against statement of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation related
to SOEs would be retained by the GP and the CDR, each for the activities for whichit has implementation
responsibility. Assurances would be obtained that, for all expenses made on the basis of SOEs, the
Government of Lebanon (GOL) would: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) ensure that all records evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after IBRD has received the last audit report; (iii) have the records and accounts of the
SOEs, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IBRD; and (iv) furnish to IBRD the audit reports, including a separate opinion on the SOEs,
no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
2.        Given the long interruption in lending to Lebanon, there is no disbursement profile for the
country. The implementation period for the project is estimated at six years. The estimate is based on
the implementation capacity of the CDR and the execution capabilities of the project-supported Green Plan
and Directorate of Studies and Coordination of MOA. Project implementation would use institutions and
procedures (with minor modifications) already in place. It is anticipated that disbursements would be
completed by June 30, 2003, about six months after scheduled project completion. The disbursement
profile closely follows the disbursement for the on-going Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization
Project. Because project funds will be disbursed through two Special Accounts (one for the GP and one
for the CDR), a disbursement plan for GP and another for the CDR have been formulated and are shown
below along with a global disbursement plan.
Proposed Disbursement Plan for the GP
US$ million    Percentage of Expenditures
Category                                  equivalent    to be Financed
1. Civil Works/Buildings
(a) Land and Water Development            9.5        80%
(except terrace retaining wall
construction)
(b) Agricultural Roads                    10.0       80%
(c) Buildings
2. Goods (including seedlings)                  5.0       80%
3. Consultants' Services, Training, Studies    3.0       100%
4. Unallocated                                  0.7
Total                                    28.2



ANNEX I
AvDendix 4
Page 2 of 3
Proposed Disbursement for the CDR
US$ million    Percentage of Expenditures
Categorv                                  equivalent    to be Financed
1. Civil Works
(a) Building                              0.35       80%
2. Goods                                       0.70       80%
3. Consultants' Services, Training, Studies     1.75     100%
4. Unallocated
Total                                     2.80
Proposed Disbursement Plan for the Whole Project
US$ million    Percentage of Expenditures
Category                                  equivalent    to be Financed
1. Civil Works/Buildings
(a) Land and Water Development            9.50       80%
(except terrace retaining wall
construction)
(b) Agricultural Roads                    10.00      80%
(c) Buildings                             0.35       80%
2. Goods (including seedlings)                 5.70       80%
3. Consultants' Services, Training, Studies    4.75      100%
4. Unallocated                                  0.70
Total                                    31.00
3.        Special Account. To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government
would establish two Special Accounts in the Central Bank. The first to be operated by the Green Plan
and the second by the CDR; both accounts would be operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. The Bank would make authorized allocations of US$2.5 million in the special account of the
GP and US$0.3 million in the Special Account of the CDR. Initially, the allocations would be limited
to US$1.5 million for the GP and US$0.2 million for the CDR. The full authorized allocation could be
claimed when disbursements reach US$4 million and US$0.5 million for the GP and the CDR
respectively. The GP and the CDR would submit replenishment applications for the special account on
a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever comes first.
The replenishment applications would be supported by the necessary documentation, bank statement of
the special account and a reconciliation bank statement of the special account against Bank records.



ANNEXI
Avpendix 4
Page 3 of 3
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Bank Loan
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
IBRD Fiscal Year
FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FYOI    FY02    FY03
Annual                      2.0      3.0      4.9       5.6      6.1      6.6      2.8
Cumulative                  2.0      5.0      9.9      15.5    21.6      28.2     31.0






LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGItICULTUItAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Appraised Sample Land Developiient WVorks
l1[lf l Amourn  |csacicisr)
.Toult    Dc% clp.               ricosllo    Typc of       lad                      Coscc,         uf GP'         Cosair-
Rtgws       Rtcqutl                                   Arcs       Arcs       lrJ        a abuse      Crops       Dewcip.       Siusc       Siursac       Supporl          buiiu,      Eapecled
1 kre.1       No.         Dalc          Nowc           Nil        hi,       H.sinfd     st I"e t    sslabt         hi,'         W.Il        Task          (.1. )          (II.)        lIHH        Coaasils
buaih Lbasus
kilcib 1o     (5) 492                 Mnn. ELidutn    10,199         5.000   Iiwgatcd                Vcgcab.           S,000                                                               200      LkwrocLuss.
Ali E4zudsn                                                                       S00                                                                        lcnaulg,
2,300,000                                 2.500.000       350,000 |               cv5lu1g. ripping
t2) 44t                 I;ludiJ 5Lunil)   20,619        ,000 D Rmnfc.       400        Almonds          S,000        200111|    2012    Sod uipun
NajJi                                                                            S00         SA000                                             |u| 
2,500.000    1,000.000                    4.000.000       650.000                ichabii(0mion
I                    w~~~~~~~salls (200 m )
ll -          t3I 545     9/1-4s94   SJudw Fa.dbil       30,061      6,000   lSsgAccd      IS0       VcgcLabl.        1,000          200                                                   200      LAnd
Uka-1h                               "5j.a                                                                              500         5.000                                                           ichabitiwion
SOW                                                                                               .                1,000.000    1.000,000                    4,000,000       6S0.000 |            | 3dll.
k5.stsca SM,at  (4)       4/19/94     Abbas              10,199      5,000   liigAicd               Vcgculb.          1,000                                                               200   | Lvckup,
Mutumad                                                                          S00                                                                      t|na.slg,
ELidin                                                                      2,S00,000                                 2,500,000        350,000 |c|cjlujg'
|________  |____ _  __cipping. ucaled
151                                        9,2S6      6,000                             OlSVCI.         6,000                                                                141      T enracng t
(6)                                        9,256      2,400                                             2,400          400       Sx7x2                                               sWill Lcaacing.
(II                                        9 256      2,314                                             2.314          160                                             |               ails
(I)                                        92S6        2,312                                            2,312
XIW JA...     Joel        101S lIOW    ln Ali           I5,000       0,oo000   Kauc.(c    5,200       Ailmonds        I0.000                                                               202
AllFnm                                                                            300
3,000,000                                 3,000,000       450.000
XlNjJ4).Jn    3041        I0/1S/9S    ManLull MahdJ    l0.000       I0,000   KainfcJ      I.200       Almonds         I0,000                                                               20 2
Alow                                                                             300
3,00,000                                 3,000,000       450,000
hlap).son     3t,44        50/51/S    TarL hMiald        50,000     I,O0O    Kainfcd     1,200       Olivcs          I0.000                                                                14 1
Alow                                                                              300
3,000,000                                 3,000,000       450,000
Al )Ala&      3t4S        50/26/95    Ahlum Ali           9,256      2,314    tjufdcd      100       Alsisonds        2,314            60                                                  20u2     Woniti
Nouj                                  ShibiO                                                                            750         5.000                                                           beneficjary
1,700,000     300,000                     2,000,000       250,000
Al QldO       5043       15042619     A,li hAila          9,256      2,324   Kaufc.l       500       OSso0            2.314          460                                                   14 1
Is                                    Shiblh                                                                            7S0         5000
__l_ ___     1,700,000    2.300,000                    4,000,000       6S0,000
.l Qwds       3440        10/26M9     Raots Al Abw        9,256      2,304   RasJnld        7S       Ollves.          2.314            60                                                  20 0     Woalicn
S.,,,,                                Asissd Fudlhl                                                                     7S0         5.000                                                           bcncliciary
Allah                                                                       1,700,000      300000                     2,000,000       2S0000



I= ~    -                          ~.                            =                                   Total AmouAnt   U lorfi(iry
Tolal    De%elp.                  ELeytlio    1 pe of       La-d                      Concc.         of CGP          Coaoti-
11tsoa       Rtquest                                     ArFa      Aeca        Irri       a above      Crop,       Deveip.        Slons       Sturarc       Support          butioa       Espteltd
JAIto)         NO.         Date          Name            hi,        h1       Raiold    sea Ie,el    suilsabk         hi           Wall         Tank           (IL)            (Li.)         IRR         ComIments
Al QJ.A        3144        I0/2 6.195    IusI Ali Shibli   9,256      2.314    isincId        75        Vcgtcbl.         2.314           60                                                    200      Wa,1stcic
(~uttt.4J  _II                       III                                                   I__    1.700,000                         300.000                     2,000,000        250,000
lount Lebaso0
Ain Al        (I) 120     4J12 I5      Ali hid. Duon       3.000      2.S00  lKsfcd          950       Chsents           2.500          140      5.2s5|    151 a
CA1W"b                                                                                                                    400         5.000        52 ml
Jubua                                                                                                                                            .30.000
1I000.000    7.000,000     1.550.00        4,000.000       650.000
0
Al G6.J       (3) 399     8/1"s95   1 am AudAl            10,000     10.000   Kazfcd       1.400       Appis            10.000                                                                 21 0
Jubad                                 iRi                                                                                 400
1.000.000                                  4.000.000       650,000
AA&) -        (J) 407     6/27/94      Tanos Rfuccl            6      4,200     aosfcd      900        Cheeacs      6 huldinp           464     6>S 4X2                                       I      | 6 houljngs
jobal                                  Al llaj           hosldig                                                      650.100                                                                         |30 mlt990 mI
s low.a                                                       4.200
5.341                                                      400,000         3.000      30,000
1.680.000    2,320.000     1.920,00        4,000,000       6S0.000
i ibfanQ      (4) S74      10/10/9    laflin Pcuos             3      i,500   lnlguscJ    1450        Appk              1,500          302    6U5 4x2                                         2i0      3 hlsuldgs
bqiahst                                Al liaj           holding                                                          300         5,000       64 as'                                                720 * 722
s                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30,000                               s213 in'
1I60                                                      5,25,000    1.510.000     1,920.00        4,000,000         65,000                Remed
0
lkYuaww D      51 4103     12/i 1/9S    Fayie "nul           I55               ltiguied                Chcnics                                      334                                        16.7     Rainfcd
30.000       10'                'I000.000  1
10.000,0
00



_ (  I,                                                             -&.ial Asavoal    bemtficiary
Ilo9l     Develp.                  Iievstio     Type of        Load                       Coacc.          ol Cl'          Cueri-                                              <
Hctseio      Kequesi                                      Arcs        AFcs        IrrJ        * absoe      Crops        Develp.        Sloec        Siurage        Suaport           bulisa       Ezpeceed
1 tis)         No          Dilt           Nagnc            hi,         hi,      Ns Hisd      was kvtl    sultbie          hi,          WVal          'I sGik( 1.)                   (I. 1          l)Ih         Communotls          W
hN1h i ebasus 
llabbClcl      (1I 4102     11/11 5 I/hllrad                            4000    KasLfcJ          500       Olives                            480                                                      14 1
AIIM                                    )Jauhil               5000                                                                          5,000
_ lohubad                        _                                                             2,400,000                      2.400,000        460,DOO   _             _
Al Naesa       12) 4105     1131 19i    l,a"  T   s          7,b.4    2.000 t   Ka&nLcJ          200       A moedS           2.400                                                                    202      2 holdings
ALIm                                     Awad                 1.389      4,000                                               75,000
.992                                                        1,60.000                                    1,800.000        220,000
holdmng
Al NAi,a    (31 791         4/ i94       Jorjes WhJi          1,400      1,000   KItIfcd          200       Almood&           1.000                                                                    202
AUlI                                    Al-Aisma                                                                               500
SO,000                                      300,0O          S0,000 |
Al N.JA-       II) 921      611.94        iarimn Saltn        4,326      1,500    K,audc,l        200       Alhomds           1.500                                                                    202       40 Jls..lyugs
.%LL.u                                   Al Airru                                                                               500
7,500.000                                    7,SOO,000          75,000
Al Naes.-      ts5 920      6/L94        SW  Saliao  Al       4,326      1,500    kainfad         200       Vegcubl.          1,500                                                                    200      40 IlduiJLng
Akia                                    Amum                                                                                    SOO5
7SO.000                                      750.000           75,000
AusaAa.        3640         IVI1/95    Fuiss  l              4.141       4.141    lr,g.acl       1.400      Appks            11.600                                                                    310
ALLot                                   YszbiL                                                                                  3SO
1                                                                  1 s                                       4,0000000                                    4,000,000        650.000
I U.,h Al      J97        | 1026895    fulis lialan          4,141       4.141  l|igacd  9|00             | Veygub.           4,141                                                                    200
K,a fik                                  YssbiL                                                                                 ISO
______  _____  _____       _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 _ _ _ _                  _____        _____           600,000                                      600,000         60,000
AI.l,A         1443         7124-9S   |lauan AluaJ|  20,000             13,500 |RniCelJ          600                          MMAlerw     135Y0                                                        20|.2
IUalel..                                 laffu                     4IIII300
lNlMibj                                                   _           _                       _            _______    4,000,000                                        4,000000         650,000
ALqA&-         1442         7f24/9S      Ksi id  aih.i       15,000     13,500    Kain1w         60         Chcn,es          13,50|    ISO 
lIi4jbCh                            )| gmI                                                                                     300
________     _____________     _______     _______                 _ _   _   _                 4,000.000                                    4,000.000        650,000
Al Nab| lulesunbe  Ali                                      27.690      6,900    IeeilAcwd     1.100        Cbenaics          9,600                                                                    ISO
!shccl       l           l            |SlviF             |               2700                                                   250
ILiab L                                                                  9,600                                            2,400.000                                    2.400.000      2.400,000






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(a) First Two-Year Program of Rural Roads
District   |                       |  Length   |           | Total Cost 1            I                    I
(Gaza)   |         Name           |   (km)   j  Type  J    (US$)    j Costkm  j  Decree  I ERR  J  Feasibility
NORTH LEBANON
Akkar        Kafar Halda Kfour Al             3.5   Earth           84,000      24,000   2 months   38        Yes
Arab
Batroum      Tanourine Wadi El Jred        2.245   Earth             8,756       3,900   2 months   25        Yes
El Koura     Amioum Dar Bechtar              1.43   Earth           68,262      47,736   2 months   43        Yes
Bacharre     Bacharre Bekfraya             4.093   Earth            15,963       3,900   2 months   37        Yes
Total Earth                                11.268                  176,981      15,707
El Koura     Afesdik Batrame               3.194   Asphalt         161,285      50,496               34       Yes
Zghorta      Karamsadeh Namatoura              3   Asphalt         176,265      58,875   Yes         37       Yes
Bacharre     Bacharre Marlicha              1.236   Asphalt         82,122      66,442   1 month    37        No (environ.)
Total Asphalt                                7.43                 419,672       56,483                      1
Total North Lebanon                       18.698                  596,653       31,909
MOUNT LEBANON
Kesrwan      Mazraat Kafarzebianne         2.897   Earth           268,074      92,535   3 months   27        Yes
El Chouf    Majdel El Maouch               2.815   Earth           133,479      47,417   3 months   29        Yes
El Chouf    El Werhanie Ei                 3.932   Earth           162,373      41,295   3 months   19        Yes
Zehalta
Jbail        Bechtelas                      1.289   Earth          35,000       27,153   Yes         51       Yes
Jbail        Gharzous Deir Arbaain          1.967   Earfh          127,611      64,876   2 months   31        Yes
Jbail        El Moncef Deir Mar            1.229   Earth           59,976       48,801   2 months   30        Yes
Mama
Total Earth                               14.129                  786,513       55,667
Jbail        Ehmeyel Wardyat                2.67   Asphalt        214,552       80,357   2 months   19        Yes
Baabda       Qsaiba Ras El Mata            3.715   Asphalt        315,511       84,929   Yes         29       Yes
Total Asphalt                              6.385                  530,063       83,017
Total Mount Lebanon                       20.514                 1,316,576      64,179



ANNFXIII
Page 2 of 3
District                             Length                Total Cost                                 1
(Gaza)   |        Name           |  L        J(km)  Type     (t1S$)   | Cost/km_    Decree  | ERR  I  Feasibility
SOUTH LEBANON
Saida       El Zraiah El Wata            3.953   Earth           82,583     20,891   3 months   40       Yes
Saida       Kfarmilki-Kfarhatta           1.167   Earth          14,221     12,186   1 month    47       Yes
Sour        Aybit Reklieh Ain Beall      2.391   Earth           33,833     14,150   1 month    40       Yes
Nabatieh     Sir El Gharbeih              2.743   Earth          84,312     30,737   Ready       54      Yes
Nabatieh     Ansar El Mereysseh           7.378   Earth         241,414     32,721   1 month    20       Yes
Jezzine     Roum Karem El                 2.326   Earth          32,000      13,758   2 months   34      Yes
Zeitoun
Zezzine      El Midan El Houranieh        1.868   Earth          87,644     46,919   Ready       26       Yes
Marjayoun   El Maissat El Wazzani          2.42   Earth          68,765     28,415   1 month    24       Yes
Marjayoun   El Sawanee Touline            7.672   Earth         233,780     30,472   2 months   25        Yes
Kalawi
Hasnbaya    Hasbaya El Katch              6.123   Earth         130,400     21,297   3 months   36       Yes
Total Earth                             38.041                1,008,952     23,067
Total South Lebanon                     38.041                1,008,952     23,067  _
BEKAA
Hermel       Wadi El Nayra Jebabe         6.664   Earth          72,689      10,908   2 months   34      No (environ.)
El Houmour
Hermel       Marijheen Aamiri             13.00   Earth         200,000      15,385   3 months   34      Yes
Baalbek     Boudey El Tell                1.496   Earth          40,000     26,738               25      Yes
Baalbek      Shmestar El Mazraa           1.965   Earth          60,000     30,534   Ready       37      Yes
Zahle        Wadi Arrayach Behina         5.736   Earth          98,435      17,161   2 months   20      Yes
Bir Hachim
West        Lebbaya                        6.00   Earth         126,500     21,083   1 month    35       Yes
Bekaa                                                                              I
West        Job Janin Lala                  4.5   Earth         109,166     24,259   6 months   27       Yes
Bekaa
Rachaya      El Mouheydasse              2.912   Earth           14,403      4,946   3 months   29       Yes
Total Earth                             42.273                  721,193     15,875
Rachaya     Yanta Kfarouk                   4.6   Asphalt       149,960     32,600   1 month    25
Total Asphalt                               4.6                 149,960     32,600                 =                   |
Total Bekaa                             50.564                  879,642     17,397
Total Lebanon Earth Roads              105.711                2,693,639     25,481              _
Total Lebanon Asphalt Roads              18.415               1,099,695     59,717
TOTAL LEBANON                          124.126                3,793,334     30,560                 =



ANNEX m
Page 3 of 3
(b) Economic Analysis - Economic Rate of Return
(LL '000)
1-30                      1           2          3           4           5            6           7          1O          30
Totsi Bwwolsj Chn.. ..stChaofd 2l371,500                2.371.500   Z371,500  24C0.736   2,4t.054      52.6       2.706t.5    3874450    A24.244   1315
TotJ  wana  Chem" nmwdrarad                    a               0          0           0     156.25      460.274      969,594    1,736,65    5.419,186    92,2200
TeJ eaSdi Chnema. i km                  3,3033M         3,333.720   3X33720   3,3'.721    3x474,190  l619.581    3.820.874    4,055,72    4.64.577    4,815,20
Tol B.naft chnes ,,,rT.                        0               0          0           0     108.390     364.912      C14.730   1.33.0    7543,931  2336.6D0
Tot Bw t Aprncchat fr%W*d               1.70498O        1.73,6    1.748,718   1,799,121   1869.746   1.96330    2075.433    2.16205   2        7      2,369.250
T1at Bww8  Apned rwAraad                       0               0          0           0      18496      179.410      706.t02    1,580,946    51113.121   8.066.250
Total BEnM Almond inWrnfald             4.67S,200       4.678200   4,745,244   4,9091      5.159.801   5.521,46B    5.946.0B2   6.403.946    7,07.30    7.017.300
Teti BOrntAJrod nlnraWded                      0               0          0           0     114.756     539.355    2.27.514    5.301,748   16.364.8    24,0
Tdr OI C       astmUkrwed        ,        at6,7s0       2681.750 a661e,750   2.763473   2.952494   3.1685,23    3.531.481   3U3t6,677    4,791.150    4.,791150
Tobl Baert O0-_ nrranrdd                       0               0          0           0           0     2e3,761      647,461    13Q2739    4.506.613   20.420.400
ToW       l Ba,a  Appeessz,soovagd      9.6.e.90        S.M9.9       e 9, o    9.770,403  10.001.179  110390,271   1oa07911    11.446.540   12639.OW    I2m,e c
Tl Badi Ao8p" n.0afad                          0               0          0           0     640.644   2,796s82    4.974,518   1i443.053   433.3    4   40ff,245,00D
ToJ Bnaftf Toratoes kngatad             4.425,1         3.406L0    11,01.357  14.144,52t  21.074.773  20.57XCt    35.6750   3s.,e,750   36,e7X750   367750
'Tow Bat Tomatos greenhousesx                  0        2.006S9   5,'146e2   9.7110325   15.496.60  21.709.2D4   21025,08  30.246.019   31A00.000   31=.500
Tomt BnEt P _oas  dngated               2951.200        511,24   1,2Q.OC6   2321.068    3.65,400   s 1.m1111   6.766253    7,324.753    D32.5S00    &,=0
ToW S1ne3 W_het rwri.d                  1.029,7            OD,325    142.76     250,348     373,009     505.724       31.400     631.400     631.400     631.400
T7 tw "   Bnlt                          334473,        304A.8t   38.1714   11 ,61`14,30   67.538624   373,63  112.466.866  V26I7362   1833116  E6.34.97
Feeder Road*
Co  n LL'0                                              3.W47.460   3..250   4ss7201D   50511.200   4.199,500    3246,100        651.000     .tM1100    1..W100
Green PLan Ingtuttoaal Supp@Et
Cad in LL'COO                                             64         566,800     325950      2s56560      MM         24ZO        618I560      256,650     242.000
Envtomnntal Manitodng
Coo en LL00                                               2n700      321,700     27esoo      121,350     111.600     124.40       12.SO60      67.800      S&O.
Ar,icntural Production
h CodeCtr Ch6rnssJrasv4ud                       0              0           0          0           0           0            0           0           0           0
hvua Cost Chtrns nrawed                         0         424,720   6.769       968t435    1227,481   1.38.,275    1.411.063     561.748          a           a
khCst Coo Cmwnest.Amad                          0              0           0          0           0           0            0           0           0           0
kvqat Coas CInem  neAtngatd                     0         631.90    1.278401   t.v2,37e   2260.375   253.019    2.554,146        ess.795           0           0
k"aCost ApncatnsLk"uIml                         0              0           0          0           0           0            0           0           0           a
kNSaL Ccat Apnco neod ained                     0         22.129    425.513      a09.=       766974      W67.410     6782M        325603B          0           0
Irrvl. C  Aknond  dJsaMed                       0              0           0          0           0           0            0           0           0           0
kyL  Coo ATnond notrairded                      0       1. 2    1,UK9,43A   2.361.843   2363.0e2   3 732 3.353.863    1.145.47t                    0           0
k.- CostOIrssintw$ed a                                         0           0          0           0           0            0           0           0           0
rvs. Cost Ow        r na.4ranvd                 0       1.16727   1,643.478   2.75.015   3411.916   3.866.G    3.,964    1.800.671                 0           0
brre  Cog Appla .aLmnnend                       0              0           0          0           0           0            0           0           0           0
kyroa Cot Apples, ne rnGatad                    0       1.n112   1.90n76S    2tes.9s7    3.346.2t7   3.754.901    3.773.=    1.257.411             0           0
Tote Coo Torma  irnged                  3.443.418       2.500.71   5.sa5,e2t  10,391,064   15.4112.21   20.s0s.7e5   26.207.163  26.07,163   26.37.183   26207.183
ToJ Cost Tomae G(eerhoufA          .           0        0.1.379  11.15294t  162,.878  21.746.364  20.717,631   30-2596   19.83781   20.M1000   30.14ZO
Totm CogA Paoo  kr%Wd                   2. 124          4A2.057   1.000.=    11.s10.01    3.073,765   4 ,27,325 s467.,44    5.73Z.917    6.333          6.113.507
ToA Cod Wheat Ra.nIed                   11.676131          Qn774     148,564    26D.510     361,150     526.252      es7,030     667.=30     47,0         t2946
Total lnvesunent Cost Total PerenrAia    7646.M73      14,3737  26,I36.I36  40,J01.C06    64e6,6   6f.332.176   7.4,271  fI.171*6   g2M4.7    6334*
0    7.,41.673     14.947.967  26.09.0036  40,401,06O  54.666,663  66.33Z176   76,445.271   58,171.248   53040,750  53.346*
Oparadg Cost
Oper CosA Chemaes. inamwitaed            1,053.511      1.070438   1.076a.73   1.10.933    1,164,803   1.224.4861    124.077    1.364,467   11.462337    1.503.216
Open. CosA Chai.s nairufed                      0         16a.S      323.064     5,4.327     6SM.102   1,.74.361    1,700.20    1,916.906   3X0S,143   4,13.481
Ope. Cod ChIne a.stlrigated              1,.s556        1.657126   11,664.38    11667,963   1.669,056   1,717,239    1.756.560    1,80736    1.S4,247    1,S45,514
Oper. CoSt COnmfr  img5ted                      0         341 eD    764.198   1.35s74s   Z086.381   Z943.02D    3,5061    4,100.794    6.005.504    9,16427
Op.' Cost Apncot axwtira&Wd               706.C37         716.110    72D.570     739,807     755.356     765.268      15175       IM.86       6o901       use36
Oper. Cood Apnct nend4fud                       0         121.079    2m3,673     475.010    ts4.043   1,064,156    1,410,477    1,703.047   Xne69       3.4K553
Opar. Cost Amond mtjnned                 1,457,2        1,472.339   1,471,111   1,5o963    1,517,664    1.5,4409    1,510994    1.6S0912    1.7atts   1,725.273
Oper Cod Almond rnadinrndd                      0         360.304    776,426   1,4311133   21146.993   30661.721    4.00448    4.471.514    6.574,324    7.47719
Oper Coat Olr.esa tnginunhed             1.145,313      1,161.1    1.171.559   1,214.112   1.250,967   1.320.662    1,3781141    1.431.079   Ies53     1,55622
Op.r. Coat O,.& nedrwrdnd                       0         376.26     625,735   1.217.412    1.067.811   Z3114.563    2.811115   2.8117.422    519,170    5.9Xf464
Oper Cost Apples awainstated             Z733.66        Z767.66   2^669,210   3,030.985   3.213,802   3.517.450    3e61aso    4.090.197    4,706.U4    4.879.655
Opew. CostApples nrwnAnigtad                    0           6.356   1,377,236   Z.83.63   3a774.763   5.778,746    7.1st65.420    .366.1u1 14,639.76    16,373,006
Totra Operating Coat Parrenia Crops      8.74a.127     109.706  13R8.     C   16,73263   23,92   26,111.073   32.437.36   3,6.62   4            444   6.64*6
Total rost                              1632.a30       29.50,12  43,a33.952  62.54.42   30,11,474  111.31,213  11U,276.370,73   96,9436   103 J86,94  113J72.33
17,055,006
Hot Bandit                              17.066.10 A    1 -6163.3 -21,517.1U  -27,396,160  -30.1295O  .23.479.737  -10,316,3 12 ,362*6   647fAi43  1v421.426
(rmnus ,let ba-nt od axng technology)
IRR                     34%
DlaAyn baneits              0 Yew    NPV(LL'I         189,96.174
locreaz u^ lna.^ nt Cost ()       0 NPV 5            119.437.845






THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                  2 
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
The following indicators will be used to monitor project implementation progress
and the achievement of its development objectives.
Project Ycar
Activity                      1997               1998              1999               2000              2001              2002             Total
Plan. _A.    Plan.          Act   Plan.       Acl      Plan.    AcL       Plan.    Act    Plan.       A    lcL
1. INMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS INDICATORS
A. Land & Water Development
1. Land Terracing (ha)               300                410              535                610                660               625             3140
2. Terrace-Wall Construction (ha)    210                265               345               380                445               440              2085
3. Hill Pond Construction (units)     29                 43      .         48                 55                43                32               250
4. Concrete Bassins (units)            0                  8                 8                 10                 13                If               50
5. Localized Wrig. Equip. (ha)        50                 50               100                100                150               150              600
6. Seedlings ('000 units)            100                130               160                180               200               200               970
B. Agricultural Roads
_ .EarthRoads(km)                     20                 26            140    I              40                 44                44               214
2. Asphalted Roads (Ian)              10    |14                            20    |           20              |  16                 6                86
C. Institutlonal Support - GP
I .CcMed Enviroamental Info. and                          I I
Monitoring Committee becomes   |
Operiona                                                                       j            -         -        -                                   I
2. Procurement of vehicics            10                  2                 2                  0                 0                 0                14



____________ ___________Projeci    Yeau
Activity                       1997              1998               1999               2000              2001              2002 
Plan.     Act.    Plan.      AcL    Plan.      AcL      Plan.     Act      Plan.     Act.   Plan.      Act.   Plan.      ACL
3. Procuremcnt of cquipment (units)     x                  x                 x                  x
4. Consultant services (rinmonth)       5                  3                 3                  0                  0                 0                II
5. Training (mnmonth)                   3                  I        _        I                  I                  0                 0                 6
6. Studies (m/month)                    2                  2                 2                  2                  2                 2                12
D. lsitiutiosal SuppL MOA
I. Construction of Documentation
Ccntcr at Ghazir (m)              900                   0                 0                  0                  0                 0               900
2. Procurement of census and
Documcntation Equipment              x                  x                 0                  0                  0                 0
3. Vchicles                             7                  0                 0                  0                  0                 0                 7
4. Tcchnical Assistance (m/month)      31                 29                15                  0                  0                 0                75
5. Training (ri/month)                 10                  4                 1                  1                  0                 0                16
6. Studics (lump sum US$ million)       01.|   01 0.                  1       0I0                                  0.1                                 0.5
I1 ACIIIEVEINIENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES (To be monitored through periodic surveys conducted by the EIMC)
1 Bascline survy to asesmscrop          I                  I                 I                  I                  I                 I                 6
yields and cropping intensity in
areas to be served by roads
2. Pcrccntage of taeced land that
was actually developed (within 2
years of tcrracing)                 -                  -               300                410                535               610
3. Survey of crop yield:
- Annual and seasonal crop                                                 I                  I                  I                       |           4
- Fruit trees [a various ages of                                           I                                                                    |   2
trces (5 years-10 years) not
planted by projcctl             _                  ________



Project Year
Activity                       1997               1998               1999               2000               2001              2002              Total
Plan.     ACL      Plan.     ACL    I'lan.     AcL      Plan.      Act.     Plan.     Act.   Plan.      AcL    Plan.      AcL
4. Results of survcy to determine                           I                 I                   I                  I                  I                5
numbcr of projcct beneficiaries in
poor categories
5. Ex-Post assessment of roads                              I                 I                   I                  I                 1                 5
environmental imnpact (EIMC)
6. Survey to assss cffect of mad on                                                                                                     I                 4
agricultural development (yields
-t cropping intensity)            .                               _
7. Formulation of policy and strategy                       I                 I                                                         I                 2
by MOA                                                                                                                                       _
S. Publication of agricultumal census                                                                                                                     I
resuLtS
9. Documentation center being
uilized






ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Analysis, Monitoring and Plan of Action
1.        The two project components that would have an impact on the environment are the land/water
development and conservation component, and the agricultural roads component. It is clear that land and
water development and conservation activities such as land terracing, terrace consolidation, harvesting of
runoff water in small hill-ponds for irrigation and forest-fire fighting purposes and the use of efficient
localized irrigation systems would help conserve soil and water resources and have a positive effect on
the environment. It is also clear that when access to rural areas is improved, populations and, to a certain
extent the environment, are expected to benefit from these roads. However, the activities under both of
these project components may also have temporary or permanent detrimental effects on the environment.
While the positive effects are welcome and expected, the project should guard against causing direct or
indirect harm to the environment. The objective of this annex is to briefly analyze the environmental
aspects associated with the implementation of land and water development/conservation and agricultural
roads components proposed under the project and indicate the actions that would be taken to avoid and/or
to mitigate potential harmful effects to the environment.
2         The proposed project would not introduce radically new concepts to land, water and
agricultural roads development activities in Lebanon, but would support a time-slice of the on-going
government programs in these fields. Before doing so, however, it is necessary to evaluate the results and
learn the lessons of past experiences. Land and water development and conservation as well as
agricultural roads construction activities have been implemented by the Green Plan Authority (GP) since
its creation in 1964. Since its inception, the Green Plan has adopted a demand-driven approach to the
execution of its activities. During the past thirty years, the GP has helped terrace about 26,000 ha of steep
privately-owned land, construct more than 7 million m2 of terrace retaining-walls, 500 hill ponds (average
capacity 8,000 m3) and more than 3,000 small concrete basins. The GP has also built more than 1,000
km of agricultural roads. Its global activities benefitted more than 38,000 farmers and about 1,000
villages scattered all over Lebanon.
3.        In its project preparation report, the FAO/CP indicates that The GP's past activities have so
far achieved global positive environmental impact. However, because of the lack of sufficiently detailed
environmental surveys and monitoring, it is not known whether some GP executed activities may have
had detrimental effects on the environment. In the FAO/CP report, particular mention is made of some
potential risks to the environment. These include inter alia the lack of awareness and analysis of
environmental issues in the studies and designs of agricultural roads and land development activities
commissioned or executed by the GP; lack of terrace retaining walls in some areas, risk of encroachment
on protected forest areas, loss of biodiversity, disturbance of archeological sites, encroachment of
urbanization on land terraced by the GP, potential mis-use of chemicals and fertilizers.
4.        Under the proposed project a number of actions and safeguards would be put in place to avoid
or mitigate potentially detrimental environmental impacts. The first, is the creation within the Green Plan
of an Environmental Information and Monitoring Committee (EIMC) whose role ( working paper No.5)
would be to, inter alia, systematically include environmental assessments in all studies and designs for



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
land and water development and agricultural roads construction. The EIMC would also formulate
mitigating measures which would be implemented by the GP or its contractors during the course of project
implementation. The table below lists the major potential impacts and the mitigating measures that would
be undertaken by the Project.
Potential Impact and Environmental Mitigation
Potential Impact                               Mitigation Measures
Lack of environmental awareness                Creation of the Environmental Information and
Monitoring Committee (EIMC) to carry out
environmental assessments on all agricultural roads as
well as land and water developments. Financing of
environmental awareness campaigns through the
media.
Lack of terrace retaining walls                Future land and water development studies by GP staff
to clearly indicate when retaining walls are needed,
subsequent GP assistance would be conditional on the
agreement of beneficiaries to complete retaining walls.
Encroachment on protected forest areas         No GP assistance for land and water development
within 500 meters of protected or national forest areas
would be made available to investors.
Agricultural road alignments would be changed to
avoid passing through protected areas.
Loss of biodiversity                           EIMU to ascertain through specific studies that areas
rich in biodiversity would not be disturbed; assistance
would be withheld for land and water developments,
and road alignments would be modified.
Disturbance of archeological sites             Project assisted works not to be undertaken where
studies show presence of significant archeological
sites.
Contracts for land and water development and road
construction would require project contractors to stop
work, inform the GP and archeological authorities if
works reveal any archeological sites.
Encroachment of urbanization on lands developed   Project beneficiaries to sign written commitment to
by the project                                 keep developed land under agricultural production
until initial investments are recovered or after GP
assistance is re-reimburse.
Potential mis-use of chemicals.                Ministry of Agriculture is being supported by Bank-
financed Irrigation Modernization Project to formulate
guidelines for the use of pesticides.
Recommendations on the use of fertilizers can be
obtained by farmers from private sector suppliers or
from regional offices of the MOA or the GP.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
5.          Other potential detrimental impacts on the environment would be identified by the environmental
information and monitoring committee which would also develop appropriate mitigation. The EIMC would have
responsibility for clearing all studies for land and water development and agricultural roads and would be under the
direct authority of the GP's Executive committee. Conditionalities would be included in the project legal documents
in order to limit project interventions to those that are environmental friendly. Assurances would be obtained at
negotiations that the Government of Lebanon would select land and water develovment activities and agricultural
roads on the basis of criteria acceptable to IBRD.
6.          Overall, the impact of the project is expected to be positive. The safeguards designed into the project,
particularly the creation of the environmental monitoring committee and the inclusion of environmental consideration
as a criteria for selecting activities to be supported by the project, would insure that the integrity of natural
ecosystems and the environment are preserved. Terms of reference, guidelines and environmental assessment
checklists have been produced and are detailed in working paper No.5. More specifically, the project would: (i)
reduce soil erosion through the construction of new land terraces and the rehabilitation of existing ones; (ii) harvest
and store potentially-erosive runoff water in small hill-ponds and promoting the use of efficient irrigation methods;
(iii) help in controlling forest fires by constructing inside forested areas and in collaboration with MOA's Directorate
of Forestry 20 water-storage ponds; (iv) improve the socio-economic environment in rural areas by contributing to
job creation, improved incomes and better access to rural areas; and (v) contribute to the formulation of informed
sector policies, including those related to the management of natural resources, by conducting an agricultural census
and establishing a permanent statistical system for the agricultural sector in Lebanon.






ANNFX VI
Page I of 7
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Patterns and Yields
Table 1. Farm Size Distribution and Fragmentation
Table la. Farm Size Distribution
Farm Holding Size      Number of        % of No. of
in Hectares               Holding          Holdings       Area - ha        % of Area
0.5 - 2              44,053              46.2          57,400               8.8
2 - 5               26,809              28.1         106,124              16.3
5 - 10               13,213              13.8        104,949               16.2
10 - 20               5,691               6.0          79,509              12.2
20 - 50                                               101,893              15.7
50 - 100               5,605               5.9          81,754              12.6
100 +                                                117,864              18.2
Total Distribution         95,371             100.0         649,491             100.0
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, 1070 Agricultural Census, Unpublished Results
Table lb. Land Fragmentation Per Farm Size
Number of Parcels Per Holding
Farm Size          1 - 4           5 -9          10 - 24         25 +
Hectares                          Percent of Holdings
0.5-2             64              31              5
2 - 5            40              42              18
5-10              27             43              26              3
10-20             28              38              30             4
20-50             20              42              30             8
50- 100            22              33              32             13
100 - 200          42              15              39             4
200 +             32             23              32             13
Total            49              36              14              1
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, 1070 Agricultural Census, Unpublished Results



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRtASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2. Areas to be Developed and Estimated Beneficiaries per Region
Areas to be Served by Agricullural lloads
Km of    Areas servcd    Total Area   Average farm        No. of        Average Size of    Total No. of
Roads      per kimi of    served by     size (lia)   Beneficiary Farm    Ilousehold       Bcneficiaries
Roads (ha)    Roads (ha)                      llolders
North Lebanon              75.0            25.0       1,875.0           5.5             341.0              10.0         3,410.0
Mouth Lebanon               57.0           15.0        855.0            2.0             428.0               6.0         2,568.0
South Lebanon               90.0           20.0       1,800.0           8.5             212.0               6.0          1,272.0
Bekaa Nornh                39.0            30.0       1,170.0           4.5             260.0              10.0         2,600.0
Bekaa South                39.0             -          780.0            9.0               87.0              6.0           528.0
Total              300.0                      6,480.0            -             1,328.0              -           10,378.0
Areas to be Terraced and lPlanted with Fruit Trees
Terraced    Area Planted    Total Arca   Average Size   No. of Benefiting   Average Size of    Total Nol of
Area (ha)  to Fruit T rees   Developed   Developed         Farming         lIousehold      Beneficiaries
____________    (ha)           (ha)          (hla)        lIouseholds
North Lebanon             785.0           500.0       1,285.0           0.68           1,890.0             10.0         18,900.0
Mount Lebanon             455.0           500.0        955.0            0.68           1,404.0              6.0         8,424.0
South Lebanon             890.0           500.0       1,390.0           0.68           2,044                6.0         12,264.0
Bekaa North               500.0           500.0       1,000.0           0.68           1,471.0             10.0        14,710.0
Bekaa South                510.0          500.0       1,010.0           0.68           1,485.0             6.0          8,810.0         "a
Total            3,140.0        2,500.0       5,640.0            -             8,294.0              -           63,208.0        r 
GENERAL TOTAL                                                                       9,622.0                         75,586.0        %!k
m :\lebanon\aidp\report\annex6.2



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURtE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3. Current and Future witli Project Cropping Patterns, Yields and Projectionsin Areas to be Terraced and/or replanted
as Fruit Trees
Cu renit                    Wilh Project (Ycar 12 - Full Developinent)
Resgion/M\ajor Crops    .                                                                                       Iicrementlal
Area       %/u of      'icldl     Total       Area      % of    Yield        Total          ton
(Iha1)    Total      ton/ha    Production     (Ila)     Total   ton/ha   Production
Area                   ton                   Area                 (on
Northiern Lebanon
Wheat (RF)              385.5       30.0        1.2        163.0                           1 .7                     -163.0
FalHow                  899.5       70.0        -             -         -          -        -            -
Apple (new-irrig.)        -           -          -            -       257.0      20.0    30.0        7,710.0       7,710.0
Cherry (new-Irrig.)       -           -          -            -       128.5       10.0    20.0       2,570.0       2,570.0
Olive (new-RF)            -           -         -             -       642.5       50.0     5.5       3,434.0       3,534.0
Alinond (new-RF)                                -             -       257.0      20.0    12.0        3,084.0       3,084.0
Sub-Total/Cropping    1,285.0         0.3       -             -     1,285.0     100.0       -            -
Intensity                                                              .
M1ount Lebanon
|Wheat (RF)             287.0       30.0        1.2        344.0        -          -        -            -          -344.4
Vegetables (irrig.)'      -           -         -             -       191.0      20.0    45.0        8,595.0       8,595.0
Fallow                  668.0       70.0        --                                 -        -            - 
Apple (new-irrig.)        -                                           477.5       50 0    30.0      14,325.0      14,325.0
Cherry (new-irrig.)        -          -                               286.5       30.0    20.0       5,720.0       5,720.0
Sub-Total/Cropping      955.0       30.0        -             -       955.0      100.0      -            -
Intensity
South Lebanon
Wheat (RE)              695.0       50.0        1.2        834.0  |          |          |                           -834.0
I/  Average between field tomato and green house tomato.



Table 3 (continued)
Current                    With Project (Year 12 - Full Development)
Rcgion/lMajor Crops    Area       % of       Yield      Total       Arca      % of    Yield        Total     Incremental
(ha)      Total    ton/ha   Production    (ha)        Total   ton/ha  Production
Area                   ton                  Area                 ton
Vegetable (irrig.)        -          -                              556.0      40.0    45.0      25,020.0      25,020.0
Fallow                 695.0        50.0                                                      . -
Olive (new-RF)            -          -                              556.0      40.0      5.5      3,058.0       3,058.0
Almond (new-RF)           -          -                              278.0      20.0    12.0       3,336.0       3,336.0
Sub-Total/Cropping    1,390.0       50.0       -            -      1,390.0     100.0     -            -
Intensity
Bekaa North
Wheat (RF)             300.0        30.0       1.2        360.0       -          -   |        |                  -360.0
Fallow                 700.0        70.0       -            -         -              -          -            -
Apricot (new-RF)          -          -         -            -       300.0      30.0    25.0       7,500.0       7,500.0
Cherry (iiew-RF)                               -            -       500.0      50.0    13.0       6,500.0       6,500.0
Alnond (new-RF)           -          -         -            -       200.0      20.0    12.0       2,400.0       2,400.0
Sub-Total/Cropping    1,000.0       30.0       -            -      1,000.0     100.0     -            -
Intensity                              .
Bekaa South
Wheat (R.F)            505.0        50.0       1.2        606.0       -          -   |        |                  -606.0
Fallow                 505.0        50.0       -            -          -         -       -            -
Vegetable (irrig.)        -          -         -            -       303.0      30.0    45.0      13,635.0      13,635.0
Apple (new-irrig.)                             -            -       303.0      30.0    30.0       9,090.0       9,090.0
Olive (new-RF)                                 -            -       202.0      20.0      5.5      1,111.0       1,111.0
Cheny (new-Irrig.)                                          -       202.0      20.0    20.0       4,040.0       4,040.0   
Sub-Total/Cropping    1,010.0       50.0  |                      |    -       100.0      -            -             -
Intensity                       _    _     _    _                                      _   _    ______  _S



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
Currenit and Fuitre with Pioiect Croping Patterns. Yields and Productions
Areas to be Served by Agriculhtmal Roads
Cur- iit                                 WVith l'roject (Year 12 - i'ull D)evelopment)
Regiun/Niajor Crops       Area (lia)    % of         Yield        Total       Area (ha)    % of        Yield        Total      Interrnental
Total      Ton/ha      Production                 Total      ton/ha      Production    Production
Area                      Ton                     Area                     TFon
North Lcbanon
Wlicat (RF)                    562.5        30.0           1.2         675.0       375.0       20.0         1.7    .   638.0          -37.0
Alinond (exisc-RF)              75.0         4.0          10.0         750.0        75.0        4.0        12.0         900.0         150.0
Apple (exist-irrig.)            75.0         4.0          23.0       1,725.0        75.0        4.0        30.0       2,350.0         525.0
('ierry (exist-RF)              37.5          2.0          9 3         349.0        37.5        2.0        13.0         488.0         139.0
Olive (exist-RF)                187.5        10.0          2.5         469.0       187.0       10.0         4.5         842.0         373.0
Fallow                         937.5        50.0           -             -         375.0       20.0         -             -             -
Atinsond (new-RF)                 -                                      .         187.0       10.0        12.0       2,244.0       2,244.0
Apple inew-irrig.)                -                                                187.0       10.0        30.0       5,610.0       5,610.0
Cherry (new-irrig.)               -                                                187.5       10.0        20.0       3,750.0       3,750.0
Olive (new-RF)                    -           -                                    187.5       10.0         5.5       I,031.0        1,031.0
Sub-Total/Cropping            1,875         50.0                                 1,875.0       80.0         -             -              -
intensity                  _             _                        _____________



Table 4 (Continued)
Current                      jVitli Project (Year 12 - Full Development)
Regionahlajor Crops       Area (ha)     % ol         Yield        Total       Area (h a)    % of       Yield        Total      Intermental
Total      TonAia      Production                 Total      tonlha     Production    Pfoduction
Area                 |    Ton                     Area             _       Ton
Nlount Lebanon
Vegetables (irrig.)'            42.8         5.0         30.0        1,284.0        85.5       10.0        45.0       3,848.0       2,564.0
I'oiato (irrig.)                42.8         5.0         20.0         856.0         85.5       10.0        30.0       2,565.0       1,709.0
Apple (exist-irrig.)           213.7        25.0         23.0        4,915.0       213.7       25.0        30.0       6,411.0        1,496.0
Cherry (exist-irrig.)          128.2         15.0         13.0       1,667.0       128.2       15.0        18.0       2,308.0         641.0
Fallow                         427.5        50.0           -             -         170.0       20.0         -             -
Apple (ncw-irrig.)                -           -                                     78.0        9.0        30.0       2,340.0       2,340.0
Cherry (new-irrig.)                           -                                     94.1       11.0        20.0       1,882.0       1,882.0
Sub-Total Cropping             855.0        50.0                                   855.0       80.0         -             -              -
Intensity
Soutli Lebanon
Wheat (RF)                     720.0        40.0           1.2        864.0       360.0        20.0         1.7         612.0        -252
Vegetabks (irrig.)              90.0         5.0         30.0        2,700.0       180.0       10.0        45.0       8,100.0       5,400.0
Potato (irrig.)                 90.0         5.0         20.0        1,800.0       180.0       10.0        30.0       5,400.0       3,600.0
Almiond (exist-RF)             126.0         7.0          10.0       1,260.0       126.0        7.0        12.0       1,512.0         252.0
Olive (exist-RF)               234.0         13.0          2.5         585.0       234.0       13.0         4.5       1,053.0         468.0
Fallow                         540.0        30.0                         -        360.0        20.0         -             -             -
Almiond (new-RF)                  -           -                                    180.0       10.0        12.0       2,160.0       2,160.0
Olive (new-RF)                    -                                                180.0       10.0         5.5         990.0         990.0
Sub-Total/Cropping            1,800.0       70.0                                 1,800.0       80.0         -             -              -
Intensitty                                                                                           I _                       I
s)iqon,l3 pP'J pflr sJqlJfu., pitn SOWIIIOi ,,,aq I.'soi. SO,iio  fU!pnlaul  iT



Table 4 (Continued)
Current                                 Witb P roject (Year 12 - Full Development)               -- 2
]   RegionlNlajor Crops   Area (ha)     / of        Yield        Total       Area (ha)    % of        Yield        Total      Intermental      Na
Total      Ton/ha      Production                 Total      ton/ha      Production    Production      o
Area                      Ton             _       Area                     Ton                         N_
lBekka South
Wheat (RF)                     351.0        30.0           1.2        421.0        351.0       30.0         1.7         596.7         175.0
Ailmond (Exist-RF)              70.2         6.0          10.0         702.0        70.2        6.0        12.0         842.0         140.0
Apricot (exist-RF)             105.0          9.0         18.0       1,895.0       105.3        9.0        25.0       2,633.0         738.0
Cherry (exist-RF)              175.5         15.0          9.3       1,632.0       175.0       15.0        13.0       2,275.0         643.0
Fallow                         468.0        40.0           -             -         234.0       20.0         -             -              -
Almond (new-RF)                   -           -            -             -          58.5        5.0        12.0         702.0         702.0
Apricot (new-RF)                                           -             -          58.5        5.0        25.0       1,463.0        1,463.0
Cherry (new-RF)                   -           -            -             -         117.0       10.0        13.0       1 521.0        1,521.0
Sub-Total/Cropping            1,170          60.0          -             -       1,170.0       80.0--
Intensity
lBekaa South
Whealt (RF)                    163.0        21.0           1.2         197.0               -          -            -                 -197.0
Vegeiables (irrig.)             78.0         10.0        30.0        2,340.0       117.0       15.0        45.0       5,265.0       2,975.0
P'otato (irrig.)                78.0         10.0        20.0        1,560.0       117.0       15.0        30.0       3,510.0       1,950.0
Apple (exist-irrig.)            132.6        17.0         23.0       3,050.0       132.6       17.0   I    30.0       3,978.0         928.0
Cherry (exist-irrig.)           85.8         11.0         13.0       1,115.0        85.8       11.0        18.0       1,544.0         429.0
Olive (exist-RF)                85.8         11.0          2.5         215.0        85.8       11.0         4.5         386.0         171.0
Fallow                          156.0       20.0           -             -         156.0       20.0         -             -              -
Apple (new-irrig.)                -           -                                     39.0        5.0   |    30.0       1,170.0        1,170.0
Cherry (new-irrig.)               -           -                                     46.8        6.0        20.0         936.0         936.0
Sub-TotaUCropping              780.0         67.0                        -         780.0       80.0         -             -              -
Intensity                                                                     |
Total                                                                            6,480.0   |






ANNEX VII
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJET
List of Working Papers Available in Project File
Working Paper No. I               :        Land and Water Development
Working paper No. 2               .        Agricultural Roads
Working Paper No. 3               :        Economic Analysis, Agricultural Production - Crop and
Farm Models
Working Paper No. 4                        Project COSTABs
Working Paper No. S               :        Environmental Analysis, Guidelines and Environmental
Assessment Summary Checklists
Working Paper No. 6               :        Participatory Approach to Project Design and Selection
of Beneficiaries
Working Paper No. 7               :        Rapport de Mission - Renforcement des Capacite
Institutionnelles - Recensement Agricole et Systeme
Permanent de Statistiques Courantes






TIE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chart 1. Ministry of Agriculture Organization
MINISTER
OF AGRICULTURE
Insillule oa     The High     Commission for
The Green Plan      Agricullural     Agricullural    Coordinallon ot
Sclence Research     Council        Planning
General Direclor
Cabinet Service          Secretary
Sludies and                  Crop                      Animal                Rural Development
Coordinallon               Producilon                 Production            and Natural Resources
Deparlmenl                Deparlment                 Deparlment                 Department
Educallon and Exiension                                                                                 MOA
Service                                                                                     Rgoa  fle
Developmenl Projecis and Programs 1
Service                                Mount Lobo         North Lebo
Planning and Archives                       Caiza Sub-Regional
Service                                    Oftices
Slalistical and Economic Studies                  I         ,                 I         I
Service            |           Shoul   Alya    Babda  Mein    Kesrouan  Juball
Caza    Caza    Caza    Caza    Caza        Caza
MOA =Mlnlsiry oa Agriculture






TIE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Chart 2. Green Plan Organization
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
PRESIDENT
2 Members
CABINET                            ACCOUN1ING                             TECHNiCAL                                E. C.
SERVICE                               SERVICE                               SERVICE                           ADMINISTRATION
RELATION WITH                          RECETTES &                          ROADS & WATER                                REIARY
MOA SECTION                         DEPENSES SECTION                          SECTION
VEHICLES                            ACONTING                                     :     ]
SECTION                                   ON                                                                  DOCUMENTATION
| BEAA L qMT. LEBANON|
PUBLIC RELATIONS I                     DONORS IFFW)                                                               E. C
SECTION     J                         SECTION     J                     L. R. CONTROL &
.                                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSPECIION SECTION
ADMINISTRAIIVE &                                                          FARMERS AS9STANCE
PERSONNEL                                                                    SECTION
SECnTlON
STUCRIES &
L. R.RGOA       |
L. R. = Land ReclarTKition






IBRD 27927
3530'                                                   36WOO                                                   3630'
LEBANON
AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                      t
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                  o                'o
_34130           ,               ADMINISTRATION                                                                                                                               34'30 -
TripWoIi''                                '                             rg      '- '
,.   Zhport                                      Herm.ol
chekko 0                                                             s3
   SD~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
OAfqr.  ;  +  (z)  4  +  > >'
O3.A                                 >,t 00001bs                                                               3 r00 -
Joun-i eh                       .      t       ' I   ..  ..A                                        .
BEIRUT              ODohr- El-  6h                           ,
-~~~~one -l                                                   *, *  ,\0
BEIRUT4)
b  Nobot O       R Mos0EIun Me   (                                         @   NATIONACZhlAPI 0RoykL
4~~~                    0Ae U'    'o                              o L      ;  '(/~~ITRAINL3UDRE
-S J_-                                                       J
0  35t3'                                                     36 0'                                                 3630'  MA  199
0Boit ed Dine.2
Soido0./
~ tN Jeooine0  S5/     'Deir El Akm-       0                           r~ NUMBE R OF AGRICULTURAL ROADS PER CAZA
akron, ~~~~~~~~~ A ~~Racltoiyo   I)To BE CONSTRUCTED BY THE PROJECT DURING
)I -nAr   -Sorbo0                                                                                THE FIRST TWO YEARS                            33'30-
(sss,          .                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES
%AO.t:i   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~      -                              6 ~~~~GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) CAPITALS
    ~~~~r-t  (Thi    I ~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
N~ '       Nobotiyek0       )     m.''y' -n                                                           CAZABOUNDARIES
N  Lb        TUH      I >t       '(             . 4                                                 GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
t  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Sour a                      I0h'r             ~       .                                                               WATERCOURSES
'"Tilbni,,0V
*/              5     5     10   15   20   23 KILOMETERS          Th, boud- o -s o-r, de -t,ooscd o-y other-noino,o
0    5        10~~l     I'S MILES           orceteo uhboudor,es
3530'                                                          36'00'                                                36'30'
MAY 1996






IBRD 27928
35':30'                                                    360                                                      3AO,'
LEBANON
AGRICULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                           kk/
_34j30,                      MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL                                                                   ><,                                                             34'30'-
O'h9q,tw                    ;    lS                       
M e d i t e r r a  n e                       M n                EL                                                      AO          I
-34-00'                                                                            L   BANO  #, WATER                                                                                34C00RS
aEIRUe  o                                                                                            oo  an- any ote nfraoto
BEIRIL                                                                             so on h m  d o    y oa
| Bcob RrsEi-Motn                        /9 < 'RYk i      
-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ /                    -                                5         10         15+HRB  MILES350+5
350                                                              36 05/- -   > <'                                        36 30'0-10
.0 ".1~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4019
QAIDA -  7~~, Je7titjru-t g   - iteir El Alfmor   c ~                   =    1300-1500
-33,303'                       zgrn                   }               f      .       /    OR.chaiy.                                      200-300                                     33'30 -
F/   \  So  tXOzfntr  <    a7>i                 /'                            _    <~~~~~~~~~~~200
/   ~ ~~~  r   , - v0   X  ~~~~~~~~~~S~~~ . /                                    O~~~~  SELECTED CITIES
,J   .  NABATIYE\I        tJ - /7~H.s +                                                          0  GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZATI CAPITALS
/  ~~~N6tiy.hc  V                O or            ASt     N ji    NATIONAL CAPITAL
\    S   5 0   H  L z  WA  N  p   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ , / ~~CAZA BOUNDARIES
~~~' '        )   '   J                                                            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
/SouJ                lMRAOUN                                                                      .                             *WATERCOURSES
_/   \               -                       O~~~~~~~~~~ 5  1.0   1S    20O  25r.1LOMETERS       Th.b ... d--e, -bl- deom rln=d-y th-rf-nmt-o
2     \         ~~~~BINT JBEIL   :                      '                                                  hown on lhs mop do ..t-Iply, on 1e p-r of The W-rld 8-k Goup,
/   \                      !                 0         5         10 ~ ~~~~~~ ~            ~ ~~~~~~ 1'5MILES  cn .ub    -nnhe b-ld-ifoyrrtr oayedrsmn
L   0          0   \@  _  '  ~~~~~ 35 30'                                                       36'00'                                                   36 30'












