                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31457

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (CPL-40920 COFN-03890)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 31.00 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                                FOR AN

                  AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              May 11, 2005




Water, Environment, Rural and Social Development
Middle-East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective December 2004)

           Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound (LL)
            LL 1 million = US$ 666.7
          US$ US$ 1.00 = LL 1,500

                FISCAL YEAR
           January 1    December 31

      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDP        Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDR         Council for Development and Reconstruction
CPPR        Country Portfolio Performance Review
DSC         Directorate of Studies and Coordination (of the MOA)
EA          Environmental Assessment
EIMC        Environmental Information and Monitoring Committee
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
FAO/CP      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
GIS         Geographic Information System
GOL         Government of Lebanon
GP          Green Plan
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRMP        Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MTR         Mid-term Review
NAC         National Agricultural Census
NAS         National Agricultural Strategy
NBF         Non-Bank Financed
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NERP        National Emergency Reconstruction Program
NPV         Net Present Value
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PIT         Project Implementation Team
PSR         Project Status Report
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report

                 Vice President:  Christiaan J. Poortman
              Country Director    Joseph P. Saba
               Sector Manager     Luis F. Constantino
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Adel Bichara

                                          LEBANON
           AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P034037                                                  Project Name: LB: AGRI. INFRA. DEVEL.
Team Leader: Adel F. Bichara                                         TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 11, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: LB: AGRI. INFRA. DEVEL.                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-40920; COFN-03890
   Country/Department: LEBANESE REPUBLIC                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (47%); Roads and
                            highways (32%); General public administration sector (21%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Water resource
                            management (P); Land administration and management (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/01/1996                                     Effective: 04/04/1997                05/27/1997
     Appraisal: 03/26/1996                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  01/28/2000
      Approval: 09/12/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF LEBANON (CDR)/Ministry of Agriculture (Green
                                           Plan)/GOV
                      Other Partners:      IFAD

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:                Inger Andersen                                 Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:             Adel F. Bichara                                Mohamed N. Benali
ICR Primary Author:             Adel Bichara; Sylvie Tillier
                                (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

        The main objectives of the project were to: (i) increase farmers' incomes and conserve the
environment through land terracing and development of about 5,600 ha and storage of run-off water in
about 250 small hill-ponds; (ii) improve access to rural areas through the construction of about 300 km of
agricultural roads; and (iii) strengthen the institutional capabilities of the Green Plan (GP) and Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) by upgrading their human and material resources, carrying out a national agricultural
census and establishing an agricultural sector database and information management system to provide the
data necessary for strategy and policy formulation.

        The project objectives were clear and focused on essential priorities for agriculture and rural
development in Lebanon. Given the limited arable land resources, the deterioration of the natural resource
base and the steadily growing population, the Government had since the early sixties given a high priority
to land and water conservation and development as well as to improving access to isolated rural areas. This
was manifested through the creation in 1963 of the Green Plan (GP), a public institution in charge of
channeling financial assistance to farmers for sustainable land development in hilly areas and the
construction of agricultural roads. At the time of project preparation, Lebanon was still recovering from the
devastation caused by 15 years of violent civil strife and military occupation. The GP's effectiveness was
constrained by staff shortages as well as budget resource limitations and a lack of mobility. The
war-induced absence of permanent systems to collect agricultural statistics and the lack of an updated
sectorial information database were major factors constraining MOA's efforts to formulate effective
agricultural policies and strategies.

        The project was central to achieving the goals of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed on June 30, 1994, which focused on: (i) addressing social needs and environmental concerns; (ii)
rehabilitating physical infrastructure; and (iii) helping to rebuild and strengthen public administration.

3.2 Revised Objective:

        The original project objectives were maintained throughout the life of the project, albeit with a
reduction in the size of components (section 3.4) as a result of a reduction in the loan amount (from US$
31.00 to 24.00 million) due to slow progress during the first three years of the project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

        The project, as designed in the SAR, comprised three major components:

        A. Land and Water Development (US$ 79.2 million total cost). This component was designed to
help farmers in hilly areas achieve the sustainable development of their land holdings. Land terracing,
construction of retaining walls, water conservation and orchard establishment are well-known techniques to
generate sustainable incomes on such hilly lands. However, these techniques are expensive and out of reach
of most farmers. Through the GP, the Government had devised a way to channel financial assistance and
incentives to landowners. Cost-sharing arrangements included standardized contributions from the GP to
support different types of works, with an aggregate lifetime ceiling for financial assistance per landowner.
This component was expected to finance mechanized works for land terracing (about 3,100 ha),
construction of terrace retaining walls (about 2,100 ha), about 250 hill-ponds and 50 small concrete
reservoirs, localized irrigation equipment (about 600 ha) and about 1 million fruit tree seedlings to plant



                                                       - 2 -

some 2,500 ha.

         B. Agricultural Roads (US$ 17.6 million total cost). This component aimed at improving access
to isolated mountainous agricultural areas, through the construction of agricultural roads including about
85 km of asphalted roads and 215 km of earth roads. Funds were to be provided for roads construction and
related activities by the GP's regional offices (studies, designs and construction supervision).

         C. Institutional Support (US$ 8.0 million total cost). Institutional support to be provided under
the project targeted the GP, in charge of implementing the land and water development and agricultural
roads components, and the MOA in charge of executing the agricultural census; establishing an information
management system (MIS); and preparing a national agricultural strategy. This component was to finance
mainly equipment and vehicles, training, studies and technical assistance, incremental staff salaries and
allowances, and construction of a documentation center for the MOA. It had two main sub-components:

         1. Capacity Building of the GP encompassed: (i) establishment of an Environmental Information
and Monitoring Committee (EIMC) within the GP, so as to create an institutional capability to undertake
simple environmental reviews, assess the potential implications of the GP's core activities on critical
ecosystems and design measures to mitigate their potential negative effect on the environment; and (ii)
strengthening of the implementation capacity of the GP's central offices.

         2. Support to the MOA encompassed: (i) execution of a National Agricultural Census (NAC) and
creation of a permanent system for agricultural statistics through the rehabilitation and upgrading of the
existing statistical services of the MOA, as well as policy/ strategy formulation, marketing and comparative
advantage studies; (ii) construction of a documentation center and establishment of an information
management system for the agricultural sector; and (iii) the preparation of a national agricultural strategy.

         All above components were directly related to achieving the project objectives and well designed
for this purpose. The project design built on the existing system and institutions and took into account the
lessons learned from GP experience, as well as the demand from farmers and their willingness to contribute
to various types of works. Due to the demand-driven nature of the activities, their location was to be
distributed throughout Lebanon, with a main focus on hilly, remote and less developed areas. The GP was
to be responsible for implementing the land and water development and agricultural roads construction
activities as well as its own institutional strengthening component, including all related procurement and
disbursement. The Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) was to be in charge of all
procurement and disbursement related to the institutional support to the MOA.

3.4 Revised Components:

         There was no revision of the nature and contents of the project components. However, due to slow
implementation in the early years, the physical targets were reduced following the project's Mid-term
Review (MTR) in February 2000 and the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in June 2001 and
accordingly an amount of US$ 7.0 million was cancelled from the original Bank loan of US$ 31.0 million
in July 2001. Downsizing of the Bank loan affected mainly the roads component and, to a much lesser
extent, the technical assistance and the training for the GP. Physical targets for land and water development
were also reduced in line with increases in unit costs since appraisal estimates (Annex 1). The agreement to
reduce the scale of the project and cancel part of the Bank loan has been a logical measure, reflecting the
slow start-up in project implementation. Reallocation of funds among various types of works enabled to
better align the project activities with the evolving farmers' demand.

         Parallel financing from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) had been


                                                       - 3 -

agreed during negotiations for a total amount (SDR 8.7 million) equivalent to about US$ 12.0 million,
earmarked for financing of terrace retaining walls. Mainly due to evolving farmers' demand associated with
changes in relative costs and financial contributions, a reallocation of IFAD loan proceeds was agreed in
January 2002 to cover a more diversified range of land and water development activities (including water
mobilization in addition to retaining walls).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

        Quality at entry is rated satisfactory in the ICR, based on the strength of the: (i) consistency of
objectives with the Government's and the CAS priorities for the development of rural infrastructure and
addressing social needs and environmental concerns; (ii) simple project design with a clear focus on
improvement of physical infrastructure of direct benefit to farmers; (iii) pragmatic approach based on
supporting existing Government programs and implementing agencies; and (iv) proven and successful
experience of the implementing agency in providing financial support and cost-sharing with farmers.

        A QAG assessment carried out in August 1998 rated both Quality at Entry and Quality of
Supervision as fully satisfactory, with promising prospects of overall impact. The QAG panel highlighted
that simplicity of the project was a pragmatic response by the Bank to the particular reconstruction needs
of a war-torn country, unfamiliar with Bank procedures. However, with the benefit of hindsight, one
shortcoming was the insufficient attention paid to the GP's decision-making structure, which turned out to
be the main factors causing implementation delays throughout the project life. Streamlining the GP's
decision-making process for project investments, although perhaps difficult to accept under Lebanon's
circumstances, might have improved the rate of project implementation (section 5.3).




                                                     - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Taken as a whole, the project's outcome is rated as satisfactory although it was implemented
slower than planned (with closing extended by 18 months) and its original physical targets had to be
reduced at MTR/CPPR due to extremely slow implementation during the early years. Nonetheless, the
project's main development objectives have been largely met. By the closing of both the Bank and IFAD
loans, it is estimated that a total of about 4,710 farm families (102% of appraisal estimate) will have
benefited from the project's land terracing activities and 830 farm families (23% of appraisal estimate)
from the distribution of seedlings by the GP for fruit trees plantation, with a further 590 families (45% of
appraisal estimate) benefiting from the agricultural roads constructed under the project. Altogether, this
corresponds to a total of 6,130 beneficiary families, equivalent to 64% of the target at appraisal (total of
about 9,600 farm families or 75,500 people) and 100% of the revised target after MTR/CPPR.

         As anticipated at appraisal, project investments in land and water resulted in substantial increases
in cropping intensities and yields and hence in farm incomes. Most of the land developed under the project
was previously abandoned or under very extensive production. Surveys carried out by the GP's M&E unit
(created under the project) indicate that about 82% of the land terraced under the project was already
cultivated by 2004, with the balance corresponding to land that has been developed only recently and is
expected to be put under cultivation soon. As expected at appraisal, high value crops such as fruit and
vegetables dominate the cropping patterns (about 75%, against 100% anticipated at appraisal). While
cereals still occupy about 25% of the land terraced under the project, this is expected to decrease as
farmers gradually muster the financial resources necessary for more intensive production. The construction
of agricultural roads contributes to improving the access of rural populations to markets and services, with
related savings on transportation costs and increased productivity of agricultural lands with improved
access. Altogether, incremental agricultural production and/or reduction in transport and production costs
translate into substantial increases in farmers incomes (section 4.4).

         Land terracing and development of perennial fruit plantations also helped reduce soil and water
erosion and protect the environment. Undeveloped hilly agricultural lands often have shallow and eroded
soils, which continue to be eroded as they are utilized either to cultivate annual subsistence cereals or have
been converted to marginal pastures. Land terracing, terrace consolidation through retaining walls, planting
of orchards and the storage of run-off water in hill ponds and small reservoirs, all supported under the
project, contribute both to increase farm incomes and to protect and improve soils quality.

         The project has improved significantly the GP's institutional capabilities, in particular through the
development of a Management Information System (MIS), improved Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of
its activities, and the introduction of economic and environmental guidelines for investment analysis. As a
direct outcome of the project, the MOA now has at its disposal an updated agricultural sector database,
including the comprehensive results of a national agricultural census carried out in 1998, together with a
permanent system for annual agricultural production statistics. Sector strategy studies have also been
conducted under the project with participation of MOA staff and local experts.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                      - 5 -

         A. Land and Water Development (SAR: US$ 79.2 million/ 75% of project costs ­ Actual: US$
70.8 million or 84% of project costs). ICR Rating: Satisfactory.

         At appraisal, it was expected that a total of about 5,600 ha of land would be developed under this
component, consisting of about 3,100 ha of land to be terraced and 2,500 ha to be planted with fruit trees
distributed under the project. Terrace retaining walls were expected to be built on a total of about 2,100 ha,
equivalent roughly to two-thirds of the area to be terraced. Water development was expected to consist
mainly in construction of some 250 small hill ponds (about 10,000 m3 each) for the storage of run-off
water, with more limited investment in irrigation equipment and concrete reservoirs.

         Due to the demand-driven nature of the project, actual achievements have evolved in line with the
farmers' demand. Demand for land terracing works remained steady throughout project implementation. In
the early years, farmers' demand for the construction of terrace retaining walls was quite low, mainly due
to high costs and relatively low contribution from the GP. Demand picked up after a decision was made in
2002 to increase the amount of financial assistance to farmers from LL 5,000 to LL 9,000 per m2 of wall
construction. Demand for investment in hill ponds was also less than expected at appraisal, with farmers
showing instead a strong preference for the construction of small concrete reservoirs. As there is a lifetime
ceiling (LL 10 million per individual) for financial assistance from the GP, most farmers prefer to use this
amount for basic investment in land terracing, walls construction and concrete reservoirs.

         Actual project achievements for the various types of land and water development works are
detailed in the output indicators given in Annex 1. For land terracing works, which account as expected for
the largest share of investments, the project has exceeded the targets set both at appraisal (102%) and MTR
(129%). Initially, IFAD financing was earmarked for terrace retaining walls, but it was subsequently
extended to investments in water development. By the IFAD present loan closing date (December 31,
2005), actual achievements for terrace retaining walls are expected to represent only about 47% of the
appraisal target, corresponding roughly to 31% of the total land area terraced under the project. This is
significantly less than the ratio estimated at appraisal (about two-thirds). However, a sample survey of past
investments in land terracing, carried out in 2004 by the GP's environmental unit, found that only 10-15%
of land terracing works need additional investment in terrace retaining walls. This is expected to be largely
met by closing of the IFAD loan, which suggests that the need for terrace retaining walls was
over-estimated at appraisal.

         Similarly, the project distributed a total of only 220,000 fruit seedlings (23% of the appraisal
estimate), corresponding to the plantation of only around 550 ha. However, surveys on the project impact
carried out by the GP M&E unit indicate that 57% of the land area terraced under the project (total of
about 1,840 ha) has already been planted with fruit trees, gradually increasing to around 76% (2,455 ha) as
cereals are being replaced with more intensive crops. There is thus clear evidence that farmers do plant
orchards on their terraced land as expected at appraisal, although without resorting to project funds and GP
assistance to purchase the necessary seedlings. Water storage capacity developed under the project (hill
ponds and concrete basins) represents about 56% of appraisal expectations.

         B. Agricultural Roads (SAR: US$ 17.6 million/ 17% of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 6.4 million
or 8% of project costs). ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.




                                                       - 6 -

         A total of about 114 km of agricultural roads (40 agricultural roads in number) were built under
the project, representing about 38% of the appraisal target and 87% of the revised target following
MTR/CPPR. This component was substantially scaled down at MTR/CPPR mainly because its actual
implementation had hardly started. Several factors contributed to the substantial delays in the early phase
of implementation of this component, in particular the lengthy procedures for selection, design and
construction of agricultural roads. Although a program for the first two-years of roads construction had
been agreed at appraisal, very few of these roads were actually built under the project due to difficulties in
obtaining approval from farmers and decrees for land expropriation.

         A new draft contract for agricultural roads putting more emphasis on quality control has been
introduced under the project and since 2003, Environmental Assessments (EA) are now carried out
systematically by the GP before calling for bids for any new road. A survey of past investments in
agricultural roads was completed in 2003 by the GP's environmental unit established under the project.
This survey covered all 36 roads that were then included in the project, among which 14 were found to
require some mitigation measures to ensure the safeguard of the environment (additional drainage channels
and retaining walls). All corresponding works have been initiated and are expected to be completed by the
GP in 2005.

         C. Institutional support (SAR: US$ 8.0 million/ 8% of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 6.8 million or
8% of project costs). ICR Rating: Satisfactory.

         Capacity Building of the GP sub-component (SAR: US$ 2.6 million/ 3% of project costs ­
Actual: US$ 2.1 million or 2.5% of project costs). In the early years of project implementation, the GP
actually lost part of its staff who were transferred to the MOA. Consultancy services started to be
mobilized by the GP only in 2000 (procurement, MIS, environment specialist) and the GP established in
March 2001 a Project Implementation Team (PIT) consisting of four full time local consultants
(environment, M&E, training/ technical and procurement specialists). It also started to re-employ or recruit
additional staff and to hire additional short term consultants as needed to support its project activities.

         Although the GP had taken a decision to establish EIMC as a condition for negotiations of the
Bank loan, it did not become operational. At MTR, it was decided instead to establish a small Environment
Unit. This unit became operational in April 2001 and completed the following main tasks under the project:
(i) revised checklists for environmental screening of all roads and land/water projects; (ii) environmental
training of GP's central and field staff; (iii) field surveys of past investments in all agricultural roads and a
sample (150 ha) of land terracing works, with identification of corresponding environmental mitigation
measures if any; and (iv) revised Environmental Operational Manual. The GP has also contracted the
services of a local firm to compile and digitize existing data and produce maps for a Geographic
Information System (GIS).

         In September 1999, the GP signed a contract with a consulting firm to propose and install a
Management Information System (MIS) to integrate financial and project management information with an
activity-based accounting system. The MIS reached its final stages of design and was being installed at the
time of Bank loan closing (December 31, 2004). During the transition period before implementation of the
MIS, the GP put in place in 2001 an interim system to track commitments and disbursements, which
proved to be extremely useful and allowed the GP to issue timely and accurate progress reports reflecting
project activities. As of late 2004, the GP had recruited two full time Information Technology specialists
and was in the process of purchasing the remaining hardware for the new MIS.

         During project implementation, the GP staff both from central and field offices received training in


                                                        - 7 -

a variety of subjects (procurement, financial management and disbursement, computer project software,
implementation of environmental management plans, GIS, roads design and construction, design and
construction of hill lakes).

         Support to the MOA sub-component (SAR: US$ 5.4 million/ 5% of project costs ­ Actual: US$
4.7 million or 5.5% of project costs) was implemented in a timely and efficient manner. All activities,
except the construction of the agricultural documentation center, were executed through an overall contract
signed by the Government with the FAO. All output targets set at appraisal have been met or exceeded.

         The National Agricultural Census (NAC) started in 1998, followed with data processing in 1999.
The first comprehensive results were published in May 2000 ("Global Results of the Agricultural Census")
and a national workshop was organized to present and discuss the main findings. Other thematic and
regional publications followed in 2000, with most census results also posted on the Internet and available
on CD-ROM. As a complement to the NAC, the project undertook in 2001 an "agriculture structure
survey" to cover specific aspects such as employment, agricultural investment, land transactions,
agricultural credit, inputs use, marketing, etc. It also made an estimation of the fish catch for 2001,
prepared statistical data related to foreign trade (imports and exports) for 2000 and 2001 (posted on the
Internet), and a survey of the fishery and poultry sub-sectors. All these activities were completed in 2002.

         As originally expected, the project also carried out annual production surveys covering both crop
and livestock production for the years 1997 to 2003 (annual paper publication, CD-ROM and Internet).
Additional outputs produced by the project include the development of a Geographic Information System
(GIS) and the production of a set of thematic maps (agricultural cartographic atlas).

         Agricultural policy studies and formulation of a sector development strategy started in 2001.
Activities related to preparation of the National Agricultural Strategy (NAS) were divided into four phases.
Phase I (Study of the Current Situation) was completed in 2002 and Phase II (Analysis of Strengths and
Weaknesses of Lebanese Agriculture) in late 2003. Phase III (Regional Master Plans) started in 2003 with
active participation and close collaboration of the MOA regional staff and other local stakeholders. As of
late 2004, seven regional workshops had been held in each governorate to discuss the results and
recommendations of Phase III and a national workshop was held early 2005. An early draft of the main
strategy and action plans (Phase IV) was produced in June 2003 and discussed with stakeholders in
Lebanon and with the Bank. All final reports related to the four phases were ready by March 2005. To be
noted that in January 2005, the NAS have been presented to the Lebanese Agricultural Parliamentary
Committee which endorsed all its findings and conclusions and recommended their adoption by the GOL.

         Civil works for the construction of the Ghazir Agricultural Documentation Center were completed
by December 2000. The original intention was that the personnel working on NAC and agricultural
statistics would move to this center, which would become a unique agriculture information center for the
country. The MOA subsequently found that this center is somewhat inconveniently located (30 km from the
main MOA offices in Beirut) and it is now considering to use it as MOA official Training Center.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         At appraisal, the project's economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 24% with a net present
value (NPV) of US$ 119 million at 12% discount rate. An updated economic analysis has been carried out
at project completion, based on: (i) actual data on project investment costs, and (ii) updated projections of
benefits, taking into account available information from the GP on actual situation in the field before and
after completion of project works. Detailed assumptions underlying the economic analysis are given in



                                                       - 8 -

Annex 3 and 7C. The updated ERR is estimated to be 13% with a NPV of US$ 2 million at 12% discount
rate. Following appraisal methodology, the economic analysis is based on costs and benefits estimates for
land and water development and agricultural roads, plus all costs related to capacity building and
institutional strengthening of the GP. This corresponds to 94% of the total project costs. Costs related to
institutional support to the MOA are excluded from the economic analysis.

         NPV and ERR are significantly lower than appraisal estimates due to a combination of factors
which can be summarized by order of importance: (i) less intensive cropping patterns than expected at
appraisal, with about 75% of fruit and vegetables (vs. 100% at appraisal) and 25% of cereals which,
however, is expected to decrease over time as farmers gradually muster financial resources necessary for
intensive production; (ii) slower build-up of crop benefits than expected at appraisal in particular for roads
(only 50% of areas suitable for additional development under cultivation over a 5-year period); (iii) lower
profitability of agriculture production than projected at appraisal, mainly due to declining prices of
agriculture produce and increasing input costs; and (iv) increases in unit costs for land terracing works and
terrace retaining walls compared to appraisal estimates.

         Since at project completion, a large portion of the land and water development works and
agricultural roads construction have only been recently completed, it is somewhat too early to have actual
data on yields, production and incomes, and the economic analysis is based on projections of future benefits
that have not yet been fully achieved. A decrease in benefits by 20% or a two-year delay in benefits would
reduce the ERR to 11%. However, this is unlikely to happen since the base case estimates of the benefits
and their phasing are quite conservative. The project also brings other social, environmental and
institutional benefits that have not been quantified in the economic analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         No estimate of aggregate financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal. At full development,
it was expected that income of a one-hectare wheat farm would increase from about US$ 42 to around US$
4,000-9,000 when it is planted with fruit trees. Corresponding ICR estimates of farm incomes at full
development (about US$ 4,200 on average per hectare of fruit trees) are somewhat lower than appraisal
estimates but nonetheless substantial. At appraisal, financial rates of return (FRR) for one-hectare fruit
farms were estimated to range between 20-59% depending on the region, compared with an ICR average
estimate of 17%. Revised estimates of financial returns reflect mainly the declining trends in the
profitability of agriculture production, resulting from relatively low produce prices and increasing input
costs compared to appraisal estimates.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The project had a modest institutional development impact for the following reasons:

l The project successfully introduced economic and environmental criteria for systematic screening of all
    agricultural roads construction and for land and water development.
l The project has introduced a new standard contract for agricultural roads with increased emphasis on
    quality control.
l An environment unit has been established within the GP, which now has an institutional capability to
    conduct and supervise simple environmental analyses and design of environmental mitigation measures.

l The GP has improved M&E of its activities, including training of regional offices to continue data
    collection on project impact after completion of the Bank project.



                                                      - 9 -

l The project has financed the design and installation of a MIS to computerize and integrate all financial
    and project management information on the GP's activities. This is a considerable improvement over
    the previous system which was entirely manual.
l Improvement of the agricultural sector database has enabled the formulation of a sector strategy that
    can be used to improve the effectiveness of agricultural sector policies and programs. A large number
    of local experts and technicians participated in the execution of this component and received invaluable
    training under the project, contributing to the development of their expertise and skills.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         The socio-political context in Lebanon remains somewhat influenced by the confessional, regional
and cultural friction that had contributed to the war. At present, social and political stability is achieved
through the maintenance of a confessional balance. In many cases, this was a constraint to institutional
change and development. In terms of project implementation, issues such as staff appointments, approval of
documents and selection and location of investments, became very sensitive and led to implementation
delays.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         In the early years of project implementation, timely availability of adequate counterpart funds
was a major constraint impeding project start-up. In 1999, after the Government made an initial allocation
and released funds, the sudden death of the GP's financial director, who was not replaced for a period of
seven months, resulted in further delays in actual project progress. This counterpart fund constraint
persisted to some extent throughout the project implementation period.

         It was originally expected that the project implementing agencies would recruit additional staff to
execute the project. Failure to take action was partly due to a public service hiring freeze. This difficulty
has been circumvented through the recruitment of staff on a "task basis" for the agricultural census, the
creation within the GP of a PIT composed of local consultants, and the recruitment of contractual staff
funded under the project for the GP's regional offices.

         Procurement procedures and financial control regulations have also created some difficulties in
project implementation. Until mid-1999, procurement initiated by the GP was delayed by a requirement for
ex-ante reviews by the Court of Accounts under the prevailing national public procurement rules.
Following the 1999 CPPR, this requirement was dropped for the Bank and other foreign funded projects.
Delays in payments and in disbursements of the IBRD loan have also resulted from limited availability of
the MOF Financial Controller posted at the GP.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         Commitment to the project from the GP's highest level management has been highly variable
during the project implementation period. The major factor that delayed project implementation in the early
years was a lack of commitment and weak project management by the GP. The situation improved
considerably with the appointment of a new President of the GP in October 2000.

         The GP's decision-making structure, consisting of an Executive Committee of three members
representing the major confessions, has been an impediment to efficient project implementation. In
accordance with the GP's statutes, a consensus must be reached between members of the Executive


                                                      - 10 -

Committee. This unavoidably gives rise to lengthy discussions, effectively hampering objective decisions.

         The GP's procedures are time consuming and not very efficient. Many farmers complained about
the number of documents they have to produce and the long waiting period for the GP to respond to their
requests. Procedures for the selection, design and construction of agricultural roads are particularly
cumbersome and lengthy. Simplification of procedures was suggested at MTR, but no action was taken by
the GP despite several reminders by the Bank.

         Staffing constraints had a negative impact on project implementation and, in particular,
contributed to initial delays in procurement. Strengthening of the GP financial and accounting functions
which was undertaken only at a rather late stage, created some difficulties in the early years of project
implementation. Following the MTR/CPPR and appointment of a new GP President, several measures were
taken which enabled project implementation to pick-up substantially (establishment of a PIT within the GP;
hiring of consultants and contractual staff; training program; etc.).

         The MOA commitment to the project was good. However, effective participation of the MOA
staff in project activities remained limited, despite repeated efforts made in this direction by the FAO
technical assistance with Bank support. While this did not affect the quality of the project output, it raises
some sustainability issues.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         The Bank loan was declared effective in May 1997. Following effectiveness, implementation was
extremely slow up to the MTR and CPPR in 2000/2001, both prompted a downsizing of the project and a
reduction in the Bank loan mainly for the roads component (section 3.4). The project was extended once (in
March 2003) by 18 months and closed on December 31, 2004. Final disbursement from the Bank
loanreached a total of US$ 21.75 million (70% of the original Bank loan of US$ 31.0 million and 91% of
the revised loan amount of US$ 24.0 million following MRT/CPPR).

         The IFAD loan became effective only in December 1999. In early 2002, its closing date was
extended by 24 months to June 30, 2005 and in July 2004, the Government requested a second extension by
6 months to December 31, 2005. It is expected that the IFAD loan (SDR 8.7 million) would be fully
disbursed by its final closing date.

         Actual project cost, including eligible expenditures expected to take place until the final closing
dates of the IFAD loan, is estimated at US$ 84.0 million, or about 80% of the estimate made at appraisal.
This consists of US$ 70.8 million for the land and water development component (89% of appraisal
estimate), US$ 6.4 million for the agricultural roads component (36% of appraisal estimate) and US$ 6.8
million for the institutional support component (85% of appraisal estimate). The overall contribution from
farmers was not much affected by project downsizing, as it relates mainly to the land and water
development component for which achievements are fairly close to appraisal estimates.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The overall project sustainability is rated as likely due to the following reasons:

         Most of the project's funds (about 89% of total project costs) correspond to investments in land



                                                      - 11 -

and water development financed mainly by the farmers and entirely operated and maintained by them.
Surveys by the GP's M&E unit indicate that farmers have already invested in the establishment of
perennial tree crops over most of their areas (section 4.1). Therefore they have an obvious incentive to
maintain the infrastructure executed with the project's financial assistance. In this context, it is estimated
that farmers have contributed about 61% of total investment costs (including the costs of land and water
development works, plus farmers' additional investment in crop establishment). The risk that farmers
would not carry out proper O&M is therefore minimal.

         About 8% of project costs have been invested in the construction of agricultural roads. Initially, it
was expected that the GP would be involved in the maintenance of these roads at least on a temporary basis
until the municipalities are be able to take over. However, the GP never got an official mandate to
undertake roads maintenance activities. At present before construction starts, the GP requires a signed
agreement from municipalities confirming that they will undertake all the necessary O&M activities.
However, municipalities sometimes lack adequate funds to carry out regular routine maintenance, in which
case only delayed maintenance is undertaken on an ad-hoc basis when a major need arises. This issue was
identified by the Bank at an early stage but not solved despite repeated requests. As a consequence, the
sustainability of the agricultural roads component is rated as unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         Most project activities were already integrated into the regular operation of the GP and, to a lesser
extent, the MOA, which minimizes the need for special transition arrangements. However, due to limited
availability of staff in government agencies and hiring restrictions in the public service (section 5.2), project
activities have been executed mainly by additional staff recruited on a temporary basis out of project funds.
The GP has only a limited and declining number of permanent staff. Consultants of the PIT (4 people) and
about 28 contractual staff have been employed out of project funds. As of late 2004, the GP had already
requested a special authorization from the Council of Ministers to engage on a permanent basis the
financial officers, the information technology specialists and the contractual staff recruited under the
project for the MIS, and it was waiting for an official decision.

         In order to ensure sustainability of project activities in the field of agricultural statistics and sector
strategic studies, the long term recruitment of key local staff employed under the project and trained by the
FAO technical assistance is also of utmost importance. Due to savings in the counterpart funds related to
the ongoing FAO contract, it was extended by the Government to end of 2005 so as to ensure a smooth
transition from the FAO team to the MOA team, complete any additional work related to the NAS, and
evaluate the various options and make a final decision on future institutional arrangements.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the
project was satisfactory. The project was identified in July 1994 and appraised in March 1996. The Bank
helped the Government in getting support from the FAO/CP to conduct a full preparation mission in July
1995. As underlined in the QAG assessment, the project design has been realistic in focusing on the
reconstruction needs of an essentially "new" borrower with a proven record of achievements, emerging
from many years of conflict and unfamiliar with the Bank procedures and practices. However, the Bank
team did not or could not anticipate the difficulties to be encountered in streamlining the GP's
decision-making structure.


                                                      - 12 -

7.2 Supervision:

         Satisfactory. Throughout the long implementation of the project, supervision missions were
carried out on a regular basis and the Bank maintained a good relationship with the implementing agencies.
Early years of project implementation were plagued by a lack of commitment from the GP's highest
management and difficulties in counterpart funding. Supervision reports gave accurate assessments of slow
progress and constraints. Shortly before the MTR, the skills mix of supervision missions was increasingly
diversified and specific corrective measures were designed. The MTR conducted in February 2000 clearly
defined the steps to be taken by government agencies and corresponding deadlines, and recommended
downsizing of the project and subsequently the project implementation became satisfactory. Bank
supervision missions took up relevant issues at appropriate times, including sustainability issues for roads
maintenance and the MOA component that were repeatedly emphasized at an early stage.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         Based on all above considerations, the overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The GP staff actively participated in
and contributed to project preparation jointly with the FAO/CP team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The Borrower's performance in implementation was in satisfactory. Full cooperation by the
Ministry of Finance and CDR staff was felt throughout the project period. Problems which could not be
solved at the Ministerial level were raised at the Prime Minister level. Timely availability of counterpart
funds has been a problem, but counterpart funds have nonetheless been made available. Constraints in
hiring staff in the public service were solved through recruitment of contractual staff.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         The overall performance of Implementing Agencies was satisfactory. Insufficient initial
commitment from the GP's management was solved following the appointment of a new GP President.
Overall, the performance of the GP was good considering the constraints that it had to face. The MOA
actively supported signing of an agreement with the FAO for the execution of the agricultural statistics and
strategy component, and its decision makers and regional staff were involved in formulating and endorsing
the sector strategy.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Based on all the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


         The key lessons learned from design and implementation of this project are:




                                                     - 13 -

·        Project implementation by existing government agencies is feasible in Lebanon, and has the
advantage of minimizing the need for transition arrangements at the end of the project provided that
adequate resources and training are made available. Previous Bank projects in Lebanon relied on specific
Project Implementation/ Management Units, which did not necessarily prove to be a better option. Under
this project, the GP as implementation agency was responsible for its own procurement, rather than relying
on the CDR as is usual in Lebanon, which also proved to be a simple and viable option.
·        Approval and financial procedures for project investments should be streamlined before
project start-up. Although it was noted during project preparation that the GP procedures were time
consuming and not very efficient, no action was taken under the project. Simplification of the GP approval
and financial procedures should have been a condition of effectiveness, or at least a covenant in the Bank
loan.
·        Training in Bank procurement and financial procedures is essential and it should take place at
an early stage, especially for government agencies that have no prior exposure to the Bank.
·        A solid Environment Unit is essential for the success of infrastructure development and it
should be established at the beginning of the project. Early establishment of the GP's Environmental
Unit would have avoided some of the mistakes that were made in initial roads investments.
·        A strong M&E unit should be established from the beginning of the project, not only to look at
the physical and financial aspects of the project, but also to follow-up on its impact and sustainability. The
GP M&E unit, established after the MTR as part of the PIT, has collected substantial data to estimate the
impact of the project and has trained the GP regional offices. In future, the GP regional offices should
continue such systematic data collection and M&E of the project impact (in terms agricultural production,
number of families affected by the project, newly developed areas as a result of roads construction, etc.) for
all construction works and activities of the GP.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/ Impact Indicators
                                                                  Target at   Revised  Actual/Latest
                                   Indicator                     Appraisal1   Target2   Estimate1

A. Land and Water Development
     Number of families benefiting from:
            land terracing                                         4,620       3,680      4,710
            fruit tree plantation                                  3,680       1,900       830
            total                                                  8,300       5,580      5,540
     Number of beneficiaries                                       65,200     43,830      40,740
     Percentage of terraced land actually developed               (100%)      (100%)   82% (100%)
     Cropping patterns/ intensities (before terracing):
            Fallow                                                 65%         65%        100%
            Cereals                                                35%         35%
            Vegetables
            Olive
            Other fruit
     Cropping patterns/ intensities (after terracing):
            Fallow                                                  0%         0%          0%
            Cereals                                                                       25%
            Vegetables                                             19%         19%        18%
            Olive                                                  25%         25%        21%
            Other fruit                                            56%         56%        36%


B. Agricultural Roads
     Number of families benefiting from agricultural roads         1,300       570         590
     Number of beneficiaries                                       10,300      4,500      5,170
     Total farm areas served by the roads (ha)                     6,480
     o/w    existing crop areas (ha)                                                      1,080
            areas suitable for crop development (ha)                                       850
            newly developed areas after roads construction (ha)                           (430)


C. Institutional Support
     EIMC operating (GP)                                          Dec 1998   May 2000   Apr 2001
     Publication of agricultural census results (MOA)              2001      Dec 2000   May 2000

   1/End of project (Target at full development)
   2/Following MTR, CPPR and IFAD reallocation




                                                   - 15 -

Output Indicators
                                                          Target at   Revised  Actual/Latest
                                   Indicator              Appraisal1  Target2   Estimate1

A. Land and Water Development
     Land Terracing (ha)                                   3,140       2,500      3,230
     Terrace-Wall Construction (ha)                        2,085       690         990
     Hill Pond Construction (units of 10,000 m3)            250        136         110
     Concrete Basin (units of 100 m3)                        50        1,650      2,980
     Localized Irrigation Networks and Equipment (ha)       600        400         310
     Seedlings (`000 units)                                 970        500         220


B. Agricultural Roads
     Earth Roads Construction (km)                          214          4          3
     Asphalt Roads Construction (km)                         86        127         111


C. Institutional Support
   Green Plan:
     Procurement of Vehicles (units)                         37         27         32
     Procurement of Equipment ­ PCs (units)                  25         33         39
     Consultant Services (US$ `000)                        3,700       1,100       790
     Training (US$ `000)                                    300        200         179

   1/End of project (Target at full development)
   2/Following MTR, CPPR and IFAD reallocation




                                                - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                            Estimate       Estimate          Appraisal
         Project Cost By Component         US$ million    US$ million


A. Land and Water Development                  79.17           70.64                89


B. Agricultural Roads                          17.63            6.39                36


C. Institutional Support                        7.98            6.80                85
   Green Plan                                   2.63            2.07                79
   Ministry of Agriculture                      5.35            4.73                88


   Total Baseline Cost                        104.77           83.83                80
    Physical Contingencies
    Price Contingencies
                   Total Project Costs        104.77           83.83                80
            Total Financing Required          104.77



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                   Procurement Method1
     Expenditure Category
                                    ICB        NCB       Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00      25.00       3.30           12.00         40.30
                                   (0.00)     (20.00)     (0.40)         (0.00)       (20.40)
2. Goods                            1.60       0.00       5.90           0.00          7.50
                                   (1.30)     (0.00)      (4.70)         (0.00)        (6.00)
3. Services                         0.00       0.00       4.60           0.00          4.60
                                   (0.00)     (0.00)      (4.60)         (0.00)        (4.60)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00       0.00       0.00           52.40         52.40
                                   (0.00)     (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                            1.60      25.00       13.80          64.40        104.80
                                   (1.30)     (20.00)     (9.70)         (0.00)       (31.00)




                                           - 17 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Procurement Method1
        Expenditure Category
                                            ICB              NCB           Other2           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                    0.00            16.30            5.07           14.98          36.36
                                           (0.00)          (13.04)          (4.06)          (0.00)       (17.10)
2. Goods                                    0.00             0.72            0.84            0.00           1.56
                                           (0.00)           (0.58)          (0.76)          (0.00)        (1.33)
3. Services                                 0.00             0.00            3.32            0.00           3.32
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)          (3.32)          (0.00)        (3.32)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00             0.00            0.00           42.58          42.58
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
    Total                                   0.00            17.02            9.24           57.57          83.83
                                           (0.00)          (13.62)          (8.14)          (0.00)       (21.76)

N.B.F. stands for non-Bank financed (mostly financed under the IFAD loan or direct investment by farmers).

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
        Component                Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate          Percentage of Appraisal
                            Bank Govt.      CoF. Farmers Bank          Govt.   CoF.   Farmers Bank     Govt.  CoF. Farmers

Land and                    14.15   4.34    11.93     48.75    12.84   2.96    11.99    42.85   91%    68%    100%    88%
Water Development
Agricultural Roads          12.96   4.67                       4.95    1.43                     38%    31%
Institutional Support
   Green Plan                1.22   1.41                       0.94    1.13                     77%    80%
   Ministry of Agriculture   2.62   2.74                       3.02    1.71                    115%    62%
Total                       30.94  13.16    11.93     48.75    21.76   7.23    11.99    42.85   70%    55%    100%    88%




                                                         - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Present value of flows (in US$ million equivalent, base year at project start-up)
                                              Economic Analysis                       Financial Analysis
                                          Appraisal       Latest Estimates        Appraisal      Latest Estimates
Benefits                                                        25.8
Costs                                                           23.3
NPV at a 12% discount rate                   119                2.5              not available
IRR :                                        24%                13%              not available



A. Methodology

Estimates of NPV and ERR for the project have been revised following the methodology used in the SAR.
Revised estimates are based on actual costs reflecting project implementation and an updated projection of
benefits. The analysis is done in constant 2004 prices, over a period of 30 years and with the opportunity
cost of capital estimated at 12% as in the SAR.

Project Costs. The economic value of the project investment costs is derived from: (i) actual disbursements
and project costs as reported by implementing agencies from project start-up until closing of the Bank loan
and end October 2004; and (ii) estimates of additional disbursements and costs expected to be incurred by
December 31, 2005 (expected closing date of the IFAD loan). Additional investments costs supported by
farmers (orchard establishment) are taken into account in the on-farm costs and in the incremental net
economic benefits. Therefore, they are excluded from project costs in the economic analysis to avoid
double-counting. Considering that there are no restrictions on the trade of goods and services, the Lebanese
Pound is freely convertible, and domestic markets are generally free from price distortions, no conversion
factor has been applied to the project costs. Taxes on investment costs are considered to be negligible. The
exchange rate has remained basically constant at about US$ 1 = LL 1500.

Recurrent project costs include mainly the incremental O&M costs of agricultural roads constructed under
the project, estimated on an average annual basis at about US$ 1,000 per kilometer. All other O&M costs
of land terracing and irrigation infrastructure will be supported entirely by the farmers and are taken into
account in the calculation of net on-farm project benefits.

Costs not directly related to infrastructure development are excluded from the economic analysis of the
project, as was done in the SAR. The economic analysis includes the costs of land and water development
works and agricultural roads construction, as well as all costs related to capacity building and institutional
strengthening of the GP. It does not include the costs related to institutional support to the MOA for
improvement of the agricultural sector data base and formulation of a sector strategy. On the whole, the
overall economic analysis of the project is thus based on 94% of the total project costs in the revised ICR
estimate, as was also the case in the SAR.

Project Benefits. The primary benefits of the project consist in: (i) incremental agricultural production to
be derived from increases in cultivated areas and yields as a result of land reclamation (land and water
development works) and agricultural roads; and (ii) savings in vehicles operating costs as a result of
agricultural roads, translating into a decrease in farm unit production costs and an increase in farm output
sales.

At project completion over most of the project area, the land reclamation and agricultural roads



                                                      - 19 -

construction works have been completed only fairly recently. Cropping patterns are not yet fully developed
and they are dominated by fruit trees that have not yet reached full production. It is therefore too early to
have actual data on yields, production and incomes as a result of the project.

Detailed field surveys carried out by the GP's M&E unit provide a strong basis to re-estimate the economic
benefits and impact of the project, based on updated projections of crop areas, yields and production costs.
Data collected by the M&E unit established in the GP since 2001 include:
§        Actual cropping patterns, before and after land and water development works, on a sample of
about 40% of the executed terracing throughout the project area (with a sampling percentage ranging from
30% to 62% in the various districts).
§        For each agricultural road already constructed or currently under construction, data on present
cropping patterns and crop areas, and estimates of the total area suitable for future additional agricultural
development.
§        Yields, farm gate prices and total production costs per hectare for main annual and perennial crops
at full development. These data were collected from neighboring farmers to reflect future production costs
and returns in the areas developed under the project.
§        Detailed crop budgets for major annual crops (cereals, mixed vegetables) and perennial crops
(olives, mixed fruits), showing annual production costs and revenues. For perennial crops, this includes all
annual costs from initial establishment to full production.

The details of the assumptions on crop areas, yields and production costs (crop budgets) used in the ICR
revised economic analysis are given in the project files (Annex 7C), with cropping patterns and intensities
summarized in Annex 1. These assumptions are based on actual data collected in the field by the GP's
M&E unit. Based on field surveys, it is estimated that terraced areas are fully developed and put into
cultivation over a period of 2 years following terracing. For agricultural roads, in addition to incremental
benefits from existing crop areas, it is assumed that 50% of the areas suitable for additional development
will be gradually put into cultivation over a period of 5 years following roads construction. Farm-gate
financial prices of inputs and outputs are estimated in 2004 prices, and their economic values are estimated
as follows:
§        The economic value of wheat and other cereals is estimated on an import substitution basis, as
Lebanon is a net importer, based on long term (2015) World Bank Commodity Price Prospects. Most other
crops (fruit and vegetables) produced in the project area are sold on the domestic market and there is no
international reference price available. Domestic financial prices have been used as economic values for
these crops, which is in line with the absence of significant trade restrictions, subsidies or other distortions
on the domestic market.
§        Economic values of fertilizers are estimated at import parity, taking into account long term (2015)
World Bank Commodity Price Prospects. Other tradable inputs (mechanization, seeds, pesticides) are not
subsidized and their economic values do not differ significantly from their respective financial prices which
have been used in the economic analysis.
§        Economic value of labor is considered as equivalent to the market wage rate, as there is no
significant distortions in the rural labor market.

B. Main Results

The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project, based on the above assumptions, is estimated
at 13%. This is significantly lower than the SAR estimate of 24%, mainly due to:
§        Less intensive cropping patterns than expected at appraisal: based on field surveys, cropping
patterns on newly developed land include about 25% cereals, whereas they were expected at appraisal to
consist exclusively of fruit and vegetables; however, it is expected that this will evolve over time, as


                                                     - 20 -

farmers gradually muster the financial resources necessary for more intensive production;
§        A slower build-up of crop benefits than expected at appraisal, in particular for roads: based on
field surveys, it is now assumed that only 50% of the areas suitable for additional development alongside
new agricultural roads will effectively be put under cultivation, and that this will be done only
progressively (over a 5-year period);
§        Lower profitability of agriculture production than projected at appraisal, mainly due to declining
prices of agricultural produce and increasing costs of inputs; and
§        Increases in unit construction costs for land terracing works and terrace retaining walls, compared
to appraisal estimates.

The project is expected to generate a net present value (NPV) of US$ 2 million discounted at the
opportunity cost of capital of 12%. A -20% decrease in benefits would reduce the overall ERR to 11%, and
a two-year delay in benefits would also reduce it to 11% (9% if reduction and delay are combined).
However, this is unlikely to happen since the base case estimates of benefits and their phasing are quite
conservative. The project also brings other social, environmental and institutional benefits which have not
been quantified in the economic analysis.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year      Count              Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification:                  3     TL, IR, AG
              July 1994
              Preparation:                     1     TL
              May 1995
              July 1995 1/                     1     TL, SS

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Pre-appraisal:                   5     TL, IR, EC, SS, ST
              October 1995
              Appraisal: March                 3     TL, IR, EC
              1996

 Supervision

              Oct. 1997                        3     TL, IR, EC                             S               S
              Dec. 1997                        1     TL                                     S               S
              May 1998                         2     TL, SS                                 U               S
              Nov. 1998                        1     TL                                     S               S
              Mar. 1999                        3     EL, DR, SL                             U               U
              May 1999                         1     TL                                     U               U
              Nov. 1999                        2     TL, FM                                 U               U
              Feb. 2000 (MTR)                  8     TL, SL, FM, ES, SS, ME, IR, EC         U               U
              Sep. 2000                        2     TL, FM                                 U               U
              Feb. 2001                        5     TL, 2 FM, PR, ME                       U               U
              Oct. 2001                        6     TL, 2FM, PR, ME, EC                    S               S
              Apr. 2002                        3     TL, ES, FM                             S               S
              June 2002                        6     TL, FM, ES, SS, AE, RE                 S               S
              Oct. 2002                        5     TL, FM, ES                             S               S
              May 2003                               TL, FM, ES                             S               S
              Dec. 2003                        6     TL, FM, ES, SS, AE, RE                 S               S
              June 2004                        5     TL, FM, ES, AE, RE                     S               S

 ICR
              Dec. 2004                        3      TL, FM, AE                            S               S

AE=Agricultural Economist; AG=Agriculturalist; EC=Economist; ES=Environment Specialist; FM=Financial
Management Specialist; IR=Irrigation Engineer; ME=Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist; PR=Procurement
Specialist, RE=Road Engineer, SS=Social Scientist; ST=Statistician; SW=Soil & Water Conservation Specialist;
TL=Task Team Leader; DR=Director, SL=Sector Leader

1/  Government was assisted in the preparation of the project by a FAO/CP preparation mission (IR, AG, AE, ES,
    SW)




                                                     - 22 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               15                           60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    85                          338
  Supervision                            135                           540
  ICR                                       5                           20
  Total                                  240                           958




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Aide-mémoire of the Implementation Completion Mission ­ November 23 to December 1, 2004

                                        REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
                 AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                 (IBRD LN 4092-LE & IFAD LN 389-LE)
                  FOLLOW-UP MISSION NOVEMBER 23 TO DECEMBER 1, 2004
                                             AIDE-MEMOIRE


INTRODUCTION

1. A World Bank (WB) mission composed of Mr. Adel Bichara (Task Team Leader), Mr. Robert Bou
Jaoudé (Senior Financial Management Specialist), Ms. Diana Masri (Financial Management Specialist)
and Ms. Sylvie Tillier (Senior Economist- FAOCP) carried out between November 23 to December 1,
2004 the last follow-up mission related to the Agricultural Infrastructure Development Project ­ AIDP.

2. The Bank's mission had the privilege of meeting H.E. the Minister of Agriculture, Eng. Elias Skaf as
well as Mrs. Gloria Abou Zeid, President of the Green Plan (GP), Mr. Mohammad Chamas and Mrs.
Ibtihag Jamali, members of its Executive Committee as well as Mr. Abdelsalam Oueld Ahmed, FAO
Resident Representative. During its stay, the mission had several working sessions with the GP personnel
as well as the FAO personnel working on the Agricultural Census and the National Agriculture Strategy.

3. The conclusions of this last follow-up mission, as summarized in this Aide-Mémoire, were discussed
with all concerned parties on December 1 and December 2, 2004 in wrap-up meetings at the GP and the
MOA. The mission would like to express its gratitude to all government officials who facilitated its task
particularly Mrs. Gloria Abou Zeid (GP), Dr. Wafa'a Charafeldin (Funds Coordinator at CDR) and Mr.
Ezzedine Azzabi (Project Manager at FAO).

BACKGROUND

4. Total project costs, as estimated at appraisal in 1996, were US$ 105 million. The IBRD and the IFAD
loans were US$31 and 12 million respectively. The IBRD loan became effective on May 27, 1997. IBRD
loan is to close by December 31, 2004 and the IFAD six months after, however an extension of 6 months is
envisaged for the IFAD Loan. A cancellation of US$ 7 million from the IBRD loan was concluded in July
2001 making the total project costs, as calculated at the Mid-Term Review, of about US$ 76 million and
the IBRD loan at US$ 24 million. The IFAD Loan remained unchanged.

PRESENT STATUS

5. Total disbursements from the IBRD loan amount at present to approximately US$ 18.8 million (78%
of the total loan). Those related to GP activities under the project amount now to about US$ 16.2 million. It
is expected that by the IBRD Loan closing date about US$ 23 million would be disbursed. Finally, Annex
1 gives details of GP budgets, commitments, expenditures and disbursements.

6. For the IBRD loan, the implementation elapsed time is almost 8 years (i.e. 100% of total project
duration). During this time, about 3,103 ha of land terracing (progress rate = 124%), 51 hill ponds
(progress rate (1) = 38%), 1,116 concrete reservoirs (progress rate (1) = 68%) have been constructed plus


                                                     - 26 -

231 ha of irrigation development equipment (progress rate = 58%) and 205,000 seedlings (progress rate =
41%) have been provided. However, it is expected that these figures will rise to 3,350 ha, no 70, 350 ha
and no 300,000 respectively by the Loan Closing date of April 30, 2005. As far as the roads construction
program is concerned, about 75 km (progress rate (1) = 57% ) of roads have been completed and 46 km are
under execution (35% of the total program). Again by April 30, 2005, it is expected that about 135 km
would be completed. A number of consultancy services have been undertaken or on-going and these are
related to procurement of equipment, Management Information Services (MIS), road financial analysis,
environment, audits, Project Implementation Team and other technical assistance services.

(1) rates are calculated after the IFAD re-allocation exercise and taking into account the revised program.

7. The IFAD loan (equivalent to approximately US$ 12 million) became effective only on December 11,
1999. So far only about US$ 4.3 million (37% of the loan) have been disbursed and the outstanding
commitments stand at US$ 5.0 million. Under this loan, about 439 ha (equivalent) of retaining walls have
been completed (progress rate = 64%). Due to the wide range of activities under the project, the IFAD loan
was restructured in 2002 so as to cover not only the retaining walls but also hill ponds, concrete reservoirs
and roads. The roads component has been recently dropped due to the increasingly high demand for
retaining walls.

8. The MIS is almost complete. The recruitment of two Information Technology Specialists was made and
the system will be operational before the end of 2004. However, these integration on a permanent basis of
these two specialists into the GP is still pending.

9. The progress of the environmental component is satisfactory. All foreseen activities have almost been
completed. The revised Operational Manual is now complete and is being used. The environmental impact
assessment of executed roads and terracing has been completed and the mitigation measures would soon be
implemented.

10. The CDR/MOA component under the project is proceeding satisfactorily. All activities related to the
National Agricultural Census (NAC) have been completed. Activities related to the preparation of the
National Agricultural Strategy are being finalized. Phase I (current situation), Phase II report (analysis of
the Lebanese agriculture) and Phase IV (strategy) are now complete. Phase III studies (regional master
plans) are almost complete (95%). It is anticipated that the final reports related to the four phases would be
ready by February 2005. The sustainability of the NAC activities in terms of personnel recruitment still
remains an issue.

11. Over the last years, the GP M&E unit has collected substantial data to estimate the impact of the
project, including cropping patterns on a sample of about 40% of the executed terracing works, data on
yields and production costs for main crops at full development, and present crop areas and estimates of
suitable areas for future development along the roads constructed under the project. Out of some 3,103 ha
of land terraced so far, most of which was under fallow before the project, about 82% is presently cropped.
The total area cropped along the roads already constructed or under construction (total of about 120 km) is
estimated at about 1,115 ha, with an additional 806 ha suitable for additional agricultural development.

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GREEN PLAN COMPONENTS

12. General: The budget allocations and expenditures for the period 1997-2004 are summarized in Annex
1. The allocated budget for FY 04 is LBP 7 billion.




                                                    - 27 -

13. Land and Water Development: By November 1, 2004 works committed under the project (including
for completed and disbursed works) stand as follows:

Component                                  Units            Number           Target Percentage
- Terracing (WB) (1)                       ha               3,339 (2)        2,500     (134% of new target
(5))
- Retaining walls (IFAD)6                  ha               807              690       (117% of new target)
- Hill lakes (3) (WB+IFAD)                 no               72               136       (53% of new target)
- Concrete reservoirs (4) (WB+IFAD)        no               2,544                      1,650   (154% of new
target)
- Irrigation equipment (WB)                ha               498              400       (125% of new target)
- Tree seedlings (WB)                      no               393,000          500,000 (79% of new target)

(1) see para 15.   (2) including 800 ha under contracts now. (3) based on 10,000 m3 units. (4) based on
100 m3 units.     (5) see table in para 16. (6) 1ha equiv. To 2,400 m2 of walls.

14. Most of the commitments under the Loan are higher than the targets so as to ensure that: i) any delay
in construction by farmers would not result in the non-achievement of the project targets; and ii) continuity
in normal GP intervention. Current commitments under the hill lakes program is still well below target,
however once the 3 large lakes whose designs are finalized, are constructed in 2005, the situation would
greatly improve.

15. By November 1, 2004 the following are the corresponding total disbursed figures related to the
completed works from both the IBRD and IFAD loans:

Component                                  Number                                      US$ million
- Terracing (ha)                           3,103            (124% of new targets)              8.4
- Retaining Walls (ha)                     439              (64% of new targets)               3.5
- Hill lakes (no)                          51               (38% of new targets)               0.3
- Concrete reservoirs (no)                 1,116            (68% of new targets)               1.7
- Irrigation Equipment (ha)                231              (58% of new targets)               0.2
- Tree Seedlings (no)                      205,000          (41% of new targets)               0.2

                  Total                                                                        14.3

In this respect, the mission would like to stress here the importance of finalizing all the outstanding
farmers' payments and suggested to the GP Executive Committee to ensure that all accountants are
working at full speed and that the GP Financial Controller be given the maximum of help to be able to
complete her work on time.




                                                     - 28 -

16. It is expected that by the IBRD Loan closing date of April 30, 2005 that the above number will rise as
follows:

Component                                  Number                                             US$ million
- Terracing (ha)                           3350             (134% of new targets)             9.1
- Retaining Walls (ha)                     600              (87% of new targets)              4.6
- Hill lakes (no)                          70               (51% of new targets)              0.5
- Concrete reservoirs (no)                 1,600            (97% of new targets)              2.8
- Irrigation Equipment (ha)                350              (87% of new targets)              0.3
- Tree Seedlings (no)                      300,000          (70% of new targets)              0.4

                 Total                                                                        17.7

17. By the newly proposed IFAD loan closing date (December 31, 2005), it is expected that the targets for
the retaining walls, hill lakes and concrete reservoirs would be as follows:

Component                                  Number
- Retaining Walls (ha)                     1,000    (145% of new targets)
- Hill lakes (no)                          100      (74% of new targets)
- Concrete reservoirs (no)                 2,900    (176% of new targets)

In conclusion, by the closing of both IBRD and IFAD loans, the completed works related terracing,
retaining walls and concrete reservoirs would exceed the revised targets, while the works related to the
other 3 sub-components (hill lakes, irrigation equipment and seedlings) would not reach the revised targets.

18. The restructuring of the IFAD Loan resulted in the following project's components and costs:

Component                          Units Quantity           Committed                Costs (SDR million)
                                                           (as of December 04)       for original quantities
- Retaining walls                  ha      690              807                               4.70
- Concrete Reservoirs              no      1,250            1,464                             1.40
- Hill lakes                       no      36               28                                0.70
- Roads                            km      50               -                                 1.40
- Unallocated                      -       -                -                                 0.50

         Total                                                                                8.70

- 1 SDR is equivalent to about 1.3 US$
- Farmers' compensation for the walls has been increased from LBP 5,000/m2 to LBP 9,000/m2.

The total commitments under IFAD loan stand at about SDR 7.0 million.

19. Due to the slow progress of the road's component on one hand and to the present large demand for the
retaining walls and concrete reservoirs on the other hand (direct consequence of increasing the GP
contribution), the last mission accepted that the targets for the latter components be increased and the roads
program be cancelled. The GP has already contacted IFAD requesting such changes as well as securing the
required finance for the Technical Assistance category which is currently being financed through the IBRD
Loan scheduled to close by December 31, 2004. IFAD has accepted the first requests and is in the process
of preparing the official reply.


                                                     - 29 -

20. Last year, three lakes sites of approx. 300,000 m3 storage capacity were identified (Mrousti ­ Mount
Lebanon; Al Diman ­ North Lebanon; Azalieh ­ Beqaa). Detailed designs and tender documents for these
lakes were recently finalized and construction is to begin early 2004 and to be completed before end of
2005. To be noted that the design of these lakes have been financed through the IBRD Loan and the
construction would be financed through the IFAD Loan.

21. Agricultural Roads: Details of the roads component under the IBRD loan are presented in Annex 2.
These roads are divided into three categories as follows:

- Category 1 ­ Executed Roads : This category consists of 26 roads of a total length of 75 km (Total cost
US$3.3 million or US$44,000/km).
- Category 2 ­ Roads under Execution : This category is at present composed of 9 roads of a total length
of 46 km (total estimated cost US$1.7 million or US$36,960/km).
- Category 3 ­ Roads being Tendered: This category consists now of 5 roads of a total length of 14 km
(total estimated cost US$1.2 million or US$85,710/km).

22. Due to the re-structuring of the project following the CPPR mission and the re-allocation of IFAD
loan proceeds, the total roads lengths (km) to be rehabilitated/constructed under the project were estimated
as follows:

Road Type                         SAR     MTR      CPPR             Completed
                                                                    (Dec. 2004)
Asphalted                         86      92       127                      72
Earthen                           214     40       4                        3

         Total                    300     132      131                      75

23. Apart from the 75 km already executed under the project, there are now 46 km under execution which
should be completed before the end of April 2004. These 121 km of completed or under execution roads
constitute about 93% of the CPPR revised roads program. During the last mission, it was agreed to cancel
the remaining roads program under IFAD loan due the changing legal situation (new law restricting the
construction on lands adjacent to an agricultural road to a maximum of 5% of the area). As a consequence,
the new target for the road program would decrease to around 130 km. If the current roads program is
completed, the total length of roads executed under the project would reach about 135 km or the totality of
the revised program.

24. The mission once more urges the GP to: a) finalize the contractual arrangements for repairing the
damages (estimated at US$ 200,000) sustained at Al Majdel Al Rekbeh road due to: weather conditions,
under-estimated designs and destroying of one main culvert by farmer's; and b) the completion of any
additional works for other roads (Jwar el Hachih, Berich, Al Kaddam, etc.) whose estimated costs are less
than US$ 400,000.

TRAINING

25. During the last 6 months several training activities were undertaken. These are: a) GIS for one week
period and for 10 persons; b) roads design and construction for one week for 12 persons; c) design and
construction of hill lakes for one week for 10 persons; and d) study tour to Tunisia to look at the terracing
and hill lakes construction for 10 days and for 27 persons. This is addition to the environmental training


                                                     - 30 -

described in para. 41.

PROCUREMENT OF GOODS

26. The status of the different packages are as follows:

- Computers, Peripherals and Software Licenses : Two packages (about 28 computers and servers)
estimated at about US$ 80,000, one networking package and about US$ 30,000 for software licenses
packages were procured. The scope of the networking was restricted to the headquarters offices. The latest
and third package (US$ 68,340) related to the hardware has been recently procured and delivered.

- Office Furniture and Equipment : The status of the remaining packages are as follows:

    l Office supplies (original estimated value US$ 98,000): Only one package has been launched
          (US$15,500) and goods have been delivered. One further bid (about $ 15,000) is to take place
          before the end of 2004;
    l Accessories for the GP roads department (original estimated value US$ 35,000): Bidding
          documents are ready and the quotations would be requested before the end of November 2004; and
    l Telephone systems (original estimated value US$ 63,000): This package has been reduced in scope
          to provide for the time being equipment for headquarters offices only. The revised estimated value
          is approximately US$ 14,000 and the supply and installation of equipment is currently underway.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASPECTS

27. Management Information System (MIS) : Major achievements were noted regarding the MIS
component. This component will provide the GP with a sustainable Information Technology (IT) solution
through automating its operations including the farmers data base, the accounting and reporting operations
and will allow remote posting of data from the GP field offices. This system, as per the contract signed
with the consultant, was to be delivered in three phases as follows:

- Phase One (Training and Database Delivery): This phase has been completed and accepted by the GP.
The software provider, is providing daily support to the GP. IT specialists from the provider are present on
site to help with technical difficulties and to facilitate the automation process.

- Phase Two (Project Information System) : All modules have been configured and delivered. These are
summarized as follows:

i) Land Reclamation Module: This one deals with farmers applications and data related to agriculture land.
The IT configuration is finalized and presently data (61,000 files) is being posted manually. The posting
process is being performed by a consultant firm who has on site a team of 13 staff. The average daily
number of posted files is about 700 files. Currently 13,000 files have been posted, the remaining files are
expected to be posted within the next 2 months. In parallel, the validation of the data is being performed by
the GP staff.
ii) The Accounting Module: This one is fully integrated with the land reclamation module where the GP
will be able to follow on its accounts and financial status through the system. This module is made up of
the budget screens, the payroll functions, the stock registry and the registry operations.

Various tests have been made on the data, and the output has been compared to the manual process that is
still in operation, the results revealed that the MIS is fully integrated and all modules are working properly.




                                                       - 31 -

- Phase Three (Connectivity of two Regional Offices) : This phase is facing some delays as the remote
connectivity to the regional offices is not yet finalized due to a missing hardware that is not available in the
Lebanese market. However, this piece should be in place soon. The GP is currently providing training to its
regional employees at its offices in Beirut. This activity will allow the employees to start working on the
system directly after connectivity. Taking into consideration the project closing date, the data entry activity
and the phase three of the system should both be monitored closely in order to be successfully delivered
prior to the loan closing date.

28. In this context, the mission recommends that the GP purchases a back-up server in case of failure of
the current one. The mission also recommends that the IT and financial officers engaged under the project
be integrated into the GP permanent staff. The mission was advised by the GP management that the request
to engage these persons has been submitted to the Council of Ministers but no decision has been made to
date.
29. Interim Financial Arrangements: The GP had parallel financial arrangements to follow on the
project disbursements and commitments. These financial arrangements mainly comprised of using Excel
spreadsheets to generate project reports. The following reports for the period ending October 31, 2004 were
delivered to the mission: a) disbursements, commitments and future activities by loan category; b) WB
commitments and expenditures summary; c) WB yearly and cumulative disbursement by work type; and d)
WB loan expenditures.

30. Disbursements and Commitments: The actual disbursement as at November 30, 2004 amounted to
about 80% of the loan amount. Cumulative disbursements, from the Bank loan, as at October 31, 2004,
amounted to US $ 19.2 million (included the MOA), out of which about US $ 3.0 million were disbursed
during 2004 (2003: US $ 3.69 million). The mission observed that a new financial controller was recently
assigned to the GP. This resulted in some delays in processing of the project payments during the transition
period. Taking into consideration the Bank's share of unpaid commitments of about US $ 5.00 million, the
                                                                              1


project's disbursement level is estimated to increase to about 95% of the loan amount by the closing date.
Unpaid commitments mainly represent civil works relating to mechanized work and concrete basins of US
$ 2.6 million and asphalt roads of US $ 1.7 million (excluding any new roads).

31. Special Accounts (SA): The IBRD SA showed a balance of US$ 1,380,259 as of October 31, 2004
with one Withdrawal Application recuperated fully by the Bank. Taking into consideration the loan closing
date, the GP was informed that all activities should be delivered prior to December 31, 2004 being the
project closing date, however a four month grace period was granted to finalize pending payments.

32. Counterpart Funds: The government counterpart funds account was showing a balance of LBP
139,491,264 (US$ 0.092 million) for the IBRD loan as of October 31, 2004. As this amount is not
sufficient to cover the government unpaid commitments of around US$ 1.20 million, the mission advised
the GP to re-initiate its request for counterpart funds immediately. So far, the total government contribution
for the life of the project since effectiveness amounted to US $ 3.44 million (excluding the MOA). The
mission was advised that the delay in the latest transfer of counterpart funds to the GP local account is
mainly due to the change in government. The new Minister of Finance has requested the GP do advise
about its requirement in order to make it available.

33. Project Audits : The auditor contract has been extended for two years and four months to cover FY04
and the 4 month grace period. Since the audit activity is financed by the loan proceeds, the mission met
with the auditor and agreed that two reports will be issued as one report covering the 12 months period
ending December 31, 2004 and another covering the four month grace period. The GP was advised that an



                                                      - 32 -

escrow account need to be used to finance this activity.

34. SOE Review: The mission performed an SOE review for withdrawal applications numbered 16
through 25 (covering the period from May 1 to November 15, 2004) and the sample selected represented
12% of the payments made on SOE basis. The mission observed that GP filing system is acceptable, all
selected SOE documentation were available, payments were made for the eligible expenditures and the
internal verification procedures followed can be relied upon. The SOE review working files are in the FM
project's file.

ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES

35. Preparation of an Operational Manual : The Operation Manual prepared under the project in 2003
is being put to good use. The procedures for safeguarding and supervising environmental aspects as
described in the Manual are being used not only for Bank-financed roads and terraces but also for all GP
work.

36. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) : EIAs for 36 rural roads financed through the Bank
(executed, under construction, and proposed for construction) have been completed, reviewed by GP and
the Bank, revised according to comments given, and given final approval. According to these EIAs, about
half of these roads would be more sustainable on the long-run if some additional works (additional drainage
channels and retaining walls). Some of these works have been completed. As far as terracing is concerned,
an environmental review and assessment of a representative 150 ha sample of past terracing projects was
carried out. The EIAs have been submitted to the GP in May 04 . The last mission reviewed the documents
and found them satisfactory and noted the need for retaining walls at some terracing sites (10 to 15% of the
sites) so as to ensure the long-term terraces stability. To this end, the GP contribution to the retaining walls
construction which has been recently increased from US$ 3 to 6 per meter length of walls will certainly
increase the demand for retaining walls and as a consequence will reduce the above mentioned percentages
in the coming year.

37. Environmental Mitigation Plan (EMP): It was agreed during the last missions that any reasonable
mitigation measures for roads identified in the EIAs were to be financed by the Project. So far, the project
Environmental Specialist has prepared an EMP based on the recommendations of the EIAs. The last
mission recommended that GP requests its regional engineers to make a final decision on any important but
reasonable mitigation measures to be adopted (additional drainage canals and additional retaining walls at
critical points), cost them, indicate execution procedures and timing, and submit a final proposal. Most of
those actions have been taken. Some of the mitigation measures are already being implemented (Wadi El
Arayesh, Al Keita, etc.) and few others will need to be completed before the project closing date. It is to be
noted that the cost of the entire mitigation program would not exceed US$ 0.4 million.

38. Preparing Base Maps for GP activities : Khatib and Alami (KA), the sole agent for GIS in Lebanon,
was selected to produce the base maps, to map GP activities, and to provide training to GP staff. KA
proposal was approved by GP in April 2004. In a first phase and before the loan closing date, KA has
successfully completed the data entry for the Bank-financed roads. GIS mapping for land and water
development activities is foreseen in a second phase and it will be conducted by GP staff.

39. Environmental Training: The contract was signed with the training consultant in June 04 and the
actual training on terracing and hill lakes related subjects has taken place (7 days for 10 people).




                                                      - 33 -

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CDR/MOA COMPONENT

40. National Agricultural Census - NAC and Agricultural Data Collection (Contract with FAO US$
4.75 million including the NAS and IBRD finance of US$ 2.7 million ): All activities foreseen under the
original contract and those added later (before the first amendment signed in FY 02) have been
satisfactorily completed. Under the present contract addendum signed in October 2002, the following
activities were programmed:

a) preparation of a methodology for data collection related to agricultural commodities;
b) preparation of a methodological approach for the fish census;
c) continuation of the basic satellite interpretation survey;
d) continuation of the collection of basic agricultural data (GIS);
e) continuation of works related to the agricultural strategy;
f) updating of the computerized system for the new data bank; and
g) completion of the agricultural atlas.
Again all above activities have been completed satisfactorily. To be noted that the agricultural atlas is an
interactive document will be made available to the general public on the Internet.

41. Due to savings in the counterpart funds related to the current FAO contract, it was suggested that the
contract be extended so as to ensure a smooth transition between the FAO team to the MOA team and to
complete any additional work related to the NAC. The new addendum is in the process of finalization and
should be signed before the end of 2004. The challenge the is to ensure that MOA would before the end of
the contract, establish a permanent statistical team to ensure the sustainability of the NAC exercise.

National Agricultural Strategy (NAS):

42. The NAS is divided into four phases: a) Study of the current situation; b) Analysis of strengths and
weaknesses of Lebanese agriculture; c) Regional Master Plans; and d) the strategy and action plans. The
first phase includes several sub-themes: a) contribution of agriculture to the economy; b) natural resources
and their uses; c) fish; d) irrigation; e) administrative structures and institutions; f) rural space and land
improvement; and g) legal and regulatory framework. The second phase is composed of 10 specific themes
each dealing with the following production aspects: cereals, vegetables, fruits, citrus, grapes/vines, forage,
oil seeds, meat/milk, fish, poultry, honey, industrial crops, flowers and medicinal plants. The third Phase is
composed of a series of Master Plans each related to one of Lebanon's 40 agro-economic zones. MOA
regional personnel, as well as most of the stakeholders, are highly implicated in the phase. Seven extended
regional workshops were held in each governorate to discuss the results and recommendations of this phase
and a national workshop would be held in January 2005 before finalizing this phase reports. Finally, the
fourth Phase is the main strategy and the action plan.

43. The actual progress rate of the whole study stands at approximately 95%. Phases one, two and four
are complete. Phase three progress rate stands at 90%. The totality of the documents are/will be available
on CDs and in printed form before the end of February 2005. Meanwhile, a very useful summary of the
objectives, strategic orientation and a list of programs/projects have been prepared by the NAS team is now
serving the MOA in presenting its own agricultural strategy to all stakeholders.

MONITORING, REPORTING AND EVALUATION

44. Reporting and Performance Indicators: The quality of all submitted reports by both the GP and the
FAO is very good and the reports do reflect all the achievements, problems and impact of the project. The


                                                       - 34 -

performance indicators are shown in Annex 3

45. Project Impact: Over the last years, the GP M&E unit has collected substantial data to estimate the
project impact. Those include:
- Actual cropping patterns on a sample of about 40% of the executed terracing works (with a sampling
percentage ranging from 30% to 62% in the various districts).

- Yields, farm gate prices and total production costs per hectare for main annual and perennial crops at full
development.

- Detailed crop budgets for major annual crops (cereals, mixed vegetables) and perennial crops (olives,
mixed fruits), showing annual production costs and revenues. For perennial crops, this should include
annual costs from initial establishment to full production.

- For each road already constructed or currently under construction, data on present cropping patterns and
crop areas, and estimates of the total area suitable for future additional agricultural development.

46. The data indicate that out of 3,103 ha of land terraced so far under the project, most of which were
under fallow before the project, about 82% are presently grown with crops including mainly olives (17%)
and other perennial fruit (30%), together with cereals (20%), vegetables (10%) and other miscellaneous
crops (5%). The areas still under fallow (18%) correspond mainly to land that has been terraced recently
and could not yet be developed by farmers at the time of the survey. Within 1-2 years after terracing works
are completed, crops are usually grown on more than 95% of terraced land.


47. The area cropped along the roads constructed or under construction (total of about 120 km) is
estimated at 1,115 ha, with an additional 806 ha suitable for additional agricultural development. The
present cropping patterns include mainly olives (150 ha) and other perennial fruit (477 ha), together with
cereals (254 ha) and vegetables (234 ha).

48. The sampling percentage achieved so far can be considered as sufficient in order to re-assess the
overall financial and economic profitability of the project. In future, the regional offices of GP should
continue such systematic data collection, along the lines initiated by the M&E unit, for all construction
works that have either already been completed or will be completed during the remaining project period and
thereafter.

49. Based on the above data on project impact collected by the GP M&E Unit, the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) will include a re-assessment of the performance indicators of the project and its
development impact and sustainability. This will also include a re-estimate the project financial benefits
and economic rate of return.

50. To provide for the Technical Assistance required to complete the ICR and all associated works during
the 4 months grace period, the mission has no-objection to continue employing the 4 specialists on a task
basis. Also the mission recommends that the GP employs all other present contractuals (about 28 staff)
using GP own budget.




                                                     - 35 -

                ANNEX 1: GREEN PLAN BUDGETARY SITUATION (LBP billion)
                                              (December 2004)


ITEM                                      1997     1998    1999  2000     2001    2002    2003  2004

1. Requested budget                       16.5     48.0    20.0   14.0    14.4    10.0    10.1  10

2. Allocated budget                       14.6     10.0 1  8.0    11.3    14.4    4.4 7   7.0   7.0

3. Received from                          0        0       32.6 7 3.8     14.4    0       7.0   0
allocated budgets (2)

4. Received from                          6.7 4    9.8 5   5.0 6  6.7     0       0       NA    7.5
previous budgets (3)

5. Works committed: new                   9.5      7.6     6.2    8.3     3.8     0.9     3.4   7.1

6. Funds spent on                         2.5      2.5     4.1    5.4     3.7     1.0     2.6   2.5
salaries & admin.

7. Funds spent on works                   8.6      7.7     7.5    2.3     4.5     0.4     2.4   1.2


N.B.

1) Including LBP 3.5 billion project's counterpart funds.
2) In theory, but not used till now and are kept by the MOF
3) Kept at the Central Bank and is available upon request with proofs of required expenditures.
4) From 1995 allocated budget.
5) From 1995 and 1996 allocated budgets.
6) From 1997 and 1998 allocated budgets.
7) Provisional sum.
NA = Not available.

Financial Year January 1 to December 31




                                                     - 36 -

      ANNEX 2: DETAILS OF THE ROADS COMPONENT (December 2004)

A 2.1: Executed Roads
 No.   Name of Road                     Lot No.    Type1     Mohafaza (region)   Caza (District)    Length (m)    Cost (US$)
   1   Jwar el Hachieh el Hmayreh           1        A       Bekaa               Hermel                   3,307      107,433
   2   Yanta el Nabih Eyloun                1       EA       Bekaa               Rachaya                  2,828      122,844
   3   Britel el Nabih Saleh                2       EA       Bekaa               Baalbeck                 1,507       46,879
   4   Kherbet Kanafar                      2       EA       Bekaa               W. Bekaa                 3,550      114,457
   5   Meaysra                              1        A       Mount Lebanon       Kesrouan                 2,539       68,257
   6   Khernoub                             1        A       North Lebanon       Tripoli                  1,976       38,537
   7   Ebbesh Sahlet el May                 1       EA       North Lebanon       Akkar                    3,519      125,929
   8   Marjheem el Heni Ein el Jameh        1        E       North Lebanon       Akkar                    3,098       92,090
   9   Kfar Hazir Geali Amioun              1       EA       North Lebanon       El Koura                 1,022       19,429
  10   Sfaray                               2        A       South Lebanon       Jezzine                  4,980       92,396
  11   Aytit Reklay                         2       EA       South Lebanon       Tyre (Sour)              1,474       48,667
  12   Kharaibe el Nabih Chit               2       EA       Bekaa               Baalbeck                 4,377      239,359
  13   Bmhray                               2       EA       Mount Lebanon       Aley                     2,731      159,719
  14   Jbaa el Chouf                        2        A       Mount Lebanon       El Chouf                 2,318      152,480
  15   Zaoutar el Charqieh*                 3        A       Nabatiyeh           Nabatiyeh                2,327      105,859
  16   Al Naanaha                           3       EA       North Lebanon       Akkar                    4,615      299,381
  17   Wadi el Arayesh Bahina*              2       EA       Bekaa               Zahle                    3,361      121,324
  18   Al Yammouneh *                       3       EA       Bekaa               Baalbeck                 3,691      221,965
  19   Nahle el Nave                        3        A       Bekaa               Baalbeck                 2,000       35,214
  20   Almat Boqaata                        3       EA       Mount Lebanon       Jbeil                    2,500       35,660
  21   Kfarmishki ­ El Merj                 3       EA       Bekaa               W. Bekaa                 3,000       91,717
  22   Al Qeddam                            2       EA       Bekaa               Baalbeck                 6,000      517,850
  23   Jwar el Hachich                      2        EZ      Bekaa               Hermel                   2,000      178,850
  24   Al Akoura el Rachma                  3       EA       Mount Lebanon       Jbeil                    1,595      186,695
  25   Amioun Dar Beachter                  3       EA       North Lebanon       El Koura                 1,400       47,000
  26   Borj Rahal-Bidias                    3       EA       South Lebanon       Tyre                     3,000       57,084
               Total                                                                                     75,090     3,327,096


_________________________
E = Earth works only;       A = Asphalt only; EA = Earth works and asphalt



A 2.2: Roads Under Execution
No   Name of Road                 Lot No.     Type1   Mohafaza (Region)     Caza (District)    Length (m)   Cost (US$)
  1  Marjheem al Amayri               2        EA     North Lebanon         Akkar                 12,371       314,925
  2  Al Majdel Rekbeh *               3        EA     Mount Lebanon         Jbeil                   1,523      193,691
  3  Al Qaiteh el Hermel              3        EA     North Lebanon         Akkar                 12,004       519,809
  4  Aidamoun el Nasseb               3        EA     North Lebanon         Akkar                   1,200       56,416
  5  Mazraat el Chouf *               2        EA     Mount Lebanon         El Chouf                5,700      208,247
  6  Tannourine Hourata               3        EA     North Lebanon         Batroun                 3,000       75,504
  7  Zouk Bhanine el Raouda*          3        EA     North Lebanon         Tripoli                 2,300       40,116
  8  Kayfoun Dahaba Aley*             2        EA     Mount Lebanon         Aley                    3,000      169,827
  9  Sareen Sabteh                    3        EA     Bekaa                 Baalbeck                4,500      132,974
              Total                                                                               45,598      1,711,509




                                                        - 37 -

Continued

A 2.3: Being Tendered Roads
No.   Name of Road             Type Mohafaza (Region)   Caza (District)  Length (km) Approx. Cost (US$)
  1   Ramah                     EA  North Lebanon       Akkar                  3,800              301,478
  2   Almansoura el Mofazar     EA  North Bekaa         Hermel                 2,200              147,825
  3   Ajid Ibreen               EA  North Lebanon       Al Koura               2,000              336,970
  4   Kefraya Nabh Halali       EA  South Lebanon       Saida                    700              127,826
  5   Tel Al Aswad - Alkana     EA  North Bekaa         Hermel                 5,100              355,120
              Total                                                           13,800            1,269,219




Stages:

D = Decree       F = Feasibility
E = Expropriation      A = Environmental Assessment




                                                 - 38 -

       ANNEX 3: PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (December 2004)



                        Indicators                                     SAR       MTR/CPPR/IFAD   Actual
                                      Input
        A. Land and Water Development
          A.1 Land Terracing (ha)                                      3,140         2,500       3,103
          A.2 Terrace Wall Construction (ha)                           2,085          690         439
          A.3 Hill Pond Construction (units of 10,000 m3)               250           136          51
          A.4 Concrete Basin (units of 100 m3)                           50          1650        1116
          A.5 Localized Irrigation Equipment (ha)                       600           400         231
          A.6 Seedlings (1,000 units)                                   970           500         205
        B. Agricultural Roads
          B.1 Earth Roads (km)                                          214            4           3
          B.2 Asphalted Roads (km)                                       86           127          72
        C. Institutional Support
          C.1 Procurement of Vehicles (units)                            37           27           27
          C.2 Procurement of Equipment ­ PCs (units)                     25           33           39
          C.3 Consultant Services (US$ 1000)                           3,700         1,100         680
          C.4 Training (US$ 1000)                                       300           200         143
        D. Total Disbursements
          D.1 Government (US$ million)                                   13            9           5.5
          D.2 Farmer and Additional Investments (US$ million)            49           29           19
          D.3 World Bank (US$ million)                                28 (1) + 3     21 + 3     16.2 + 2.9
          D.4 IFAD (US$ million)                                         12           12           4.3
                                     Output
        1. Percentage of terraced land that was actually developed        -            -           82
        (as of October 31, 2004)
        2. Survey of crop yield (40% sample)
           2.1 Cropping patterns/ intensities (before terracing)
              2.1.1 Fallow                                               65           65          100
              2.1.2 Fruits                                               35           35            -
              2.1.3 Others                                                -            -            -
           2.2 Cropping patterns/intensities (after terracing)
              2.2.1 Fallow                                                0            0           18
              2.2.2 Fruits                                              100           100          47
              2.2.3 Others                                                -            -           35
           2.3 Number of families from land/water development          8,300         6,600       4,240
        3. Agricultural Roads (no 29 completed)
          3.1 Number of families                                       1,300          450         370
          3.2 Number of beneficiaries                                     -            -         3,178
          3.2 Newly dev. areas as a result of roads execution (ha)        -            -           32
          3.3 Areas along the roads suitable for development (ha)         -            -          501
          3.4 Cropped areas served by the roads (ha)                      -            -          637


                                (1) GP only




B. Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)




                                                        - 39 -

                                      LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                      Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project
                                             (LN 4092-LE)
                            PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                                       Borrower's Contribution


1. Background


With its 4 million inhabitants, Lebanon is a mountainous land of some 10,452 km2 (or 4,000 square miles).
The history of the people of Lebanon and, in many ways, their future hopes has always stemmed from the
nature of the land itself.

The area amenable to agricultural development may reach, at its best, about 607,000 ha, out of which
247,939 ha only are actually under cultivation. Accordingly, the per capita land being used for agriculture
is 0.06 ha, one of the lowest in the globe.

The 1999 FAO statistics have revealed that the number of farmers is 194,829 representing only 5 % of the
population, and the irrigated area is 104,009 ha representing 42% of the total cultivated area. The average
farm size is estimated at 1.27 ha, and the area under protection covers is about 5,000 ha. The share of
abandoned agriculture land is quite significant, with 53,137 ha being classified as neglected land (not
cultivated since 5 years) and about 50,000 ha as uncultivated.

The Lebanese Government has always recognized the need to help farmers and alleviate their
socio-economic conditions hence raising their income. Support was hence provided to reclaim some of
their abandoned land and use modern technology to increase their productivity, namely with regard to
innovative irrigation methods and new breeds of plants. The establishment of the Green Plan was to serve
the above-mentioned objectives.


2. Project Objectives

The objectives of the Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (LN 4092-LE) have been tailored as
follows:

a)      Developing land and water resources for the purposes of increasing farmers' incomes and
protecting the environment through land terracing and harvesting of run-off water in small hill ponds;
b)      Increasing access to and from isolated rural areas through the construction of agricultural roads;
c)      Strengthening the institutional and implementation capabilities of the GP by upgrading their human
and material capabilities and establishing an Information Management System to provide the data
necessary for strategy and policy formulation


3. Impact and Benefits




                                                   - 40 -

The first objective has been achieved by the significant increase of land suitable for agricultural
production, as well as the improvement in the productivity of both new and old orchards:
         3,400 ha of slopy and rocky lands were enhanced through the removal of rocks and the
construction of terraces.
         Irrigation was also improved in more than 350 ha through the provision of modern technology.
         About 717,000 m3 of water were conserved through the building of concrete water reservoirs and
         hill lakes.

The second objective was achieved through the construction of agricultural roads, with about 135 kms of
roads executed in the various Lebanese regions. The execution of these roads is intended to lead to
improving land management and decreasing transportation cost for both agricultural inputs (e.g., fertilizers
and insecticides) and outputs (agricultural production).

As for the third objective, it was achieved both through the various training sessions and the provision of
the necessary means and equipment required to facilitate and speed up the GP activities:
         Training was provided in such various fields as computers, environmental awareness and
management, project monitoring, land reclamation, hill ponds design and execution, road design,
construction and maintenance.
         The development of a Management Information System (MIS) to mechanize and facilitate the
         collection and analysis of the information received from the different regions and departments is an
         excellent achievement.
         The provision of a Geographic Information System and the incorporation, as a first phase, of all
         World Bank financed roads is as well a major achievement.
         New cars, computers and servers, printers, scanners, photocopying machines, digital cameras,
         central telephone system, air conditioning, furniture as well as other equipment were also provided.


4. Evaluation of the performance

The performance of the works carried out under the Project ranges from highly satisfactory in general, to
satisfactory for certain particular components.

The components of the main category, which encompasses land terracing, terrace retaining walls, and
concrete reservoirs, exceeded their targets. The quality of the works can be rated as very good.

The target of the road category was almost reached and the quality of the works was in general
satisfactory. This accomplishment is however slightly weakened by the absence of a realistic plan for the
road's maintenance after the one-year defects liability period dictated by the construction contract. The
roads' maintenance has, since the establishment of the Green Plan, been required to be undertaken by the
local municipality. For the past years, this practice has however proven to be non feasible as a result of the
lack of municipal budget intended for that purpose.

It is to be noted that the works' performance was negatively affected by the delay in execution, which was
due to the combination of one or more of the following factors:

         Delays in initial implementation of the project; this was mainly due, on the one hand, to the lack
     of sufficient personnel as well as the lack of experience and knowledge of the existing personnel with
     regard to the implementation of WB and IFAD loans, and on the other hand, to the delay in the transfer



                                                      - 41 -

    of the necessary counterpart funds at the initial project stages.
         Delay in commitments and disbursements; this is essentially due, on the one hand to the lack of
         sufficient personnel in the finance department as well as the multiple replacements of the head of
         the finance department and the financial controller delegated from the Ministry of Finance, and on
         the other hand to the lengthy and bureaucratic procedures involved in the commitment and
         disbursement that require numerous steps and signatures.
         Delay in decision taking; this stems from the configuration of the Executive Committee, which is
         composed of a President and 2 members having to reach a consensus on any activity or decision to
         be made.
5. Project Implementation

Although the Loan Agreement between the Lebanese Republic and the IBRD was signed on December 5th,
1996, the Loan only became effective on May 27th, 1997. The numerous reasons delaying the execution
have been addressed in section 4, and can be summarized as follows: (i) the lack of counterpart funds in
1997 and 1998, resulting in delaying the execution of the Project's civil works until mid 1999; (ii) the
resignation, in 1999, of a number of GP engineers and technician (about 30 persons) who left their jobs for
better opportunities elsewhere; and (iii) the lack of experience of the GP personnel with the management
and guidelines of IBRD financed projects.

Due to the continuing delays in Project implementation, it was decided, during the Mid- Term Review of
February 2000, to restructure the Project. Another restructuring also occurred in June 2001 further to the
Performance Review of the World Bank Portfolio. A reduction in the loan amounting to 7 million US$ was
agreed upon, according to which all targets were reconsidered.

In spite of all the above-mentioned constraints, most of the major Project targets were completed:

         3,400 ha of land were reclaimed, as compared to the 2,500 ha target. Almost 80% of that area was
planted, with the remaining area expected to be planted in the next two years. The resulting number of
beneficiaries is about 45,000.
             Terrace retaining walls for about 600 ha were built, as compared to the 690 ha target. It is
             expected that additional walls for 200 ha would be built by the IFAD closing date of IFAD
             (end of year 2005).
             1,600 water concrete reservoirs were built under the WB loan, with a total capacity of 160,000
             m3, as opposed to the 165,000 m3 target. Another 1,600 concrete reservoirs are expected to
             be built under the IFAD loan by its closing date, with a total capacity of 160,000 m3. It is to
             be noted that the capacity of water in the individual hill lakes is expected to reach 700,000 m3,
             with an additional 326,000 m3 of water expected to be conserved in three major hill lakes by
             the IFAD closing date; hence a total of 1,026,000 m3 as compared to the 1,360,000 m3 target.

             350,000 orchard seedlings were purchased, which is less than the 500,000 seedlings target.
             The reason behind this lower achievement lies in the fact that most farmers prefer to use the ten
             million Lebanese pounds (which is the maximum amount a farmer can get from the GP) for
             land reclamation and water reservoirs, in addition to the fact that some kinds of seedlings are
             usually obtained almost free of charge from the Ministry of Agriculture.
             42 roads were constructed in the various Lebanese regions, with a total length of 135 km, as
             compared to the target of 131 km. The resulting number of beneficiaries is about 6,000. The
             total area cropped along the constructed roads is estimated at about 1,260 ha with an
             additional 992 ha suitable for agricultural development within the coming 5 years.



                                                     - 42 -

The Project contribution to the capacity building of the GP can be summarized as follows:

         Renovation of the infrastructure at the GP head office and regional offices, through the purchase of
cars, computers and servers, scanners, printers and plotters, photocopying machines, central telephone
system, furniture, etc.)
            Establishment of a Management Information System that can result in better and faster
            analysis of data as well as more efficient and closer control of the various activities at the
            Headquarter and regional offices.
            Data Entry of all the old farmers' files into the MIS system, which will have a tremendously
            positive impact in following up and keeping record of the various past and present activities of
            the GP as well as the corresponding beneficiaries.
            Implementation of a Geographic Information System with the incorporation, as a first phase, of
            all World Bank financed roads.
            Training the GP employees in such broad and various fields as:
                 -       Use of computers (Essentials and introduction to Word, Excel, MS Project, Auto
                 CAD LT 2000).
                 -       Design, construction and supervision of roads.
                 -       Design, construction and supervision of hill lakes.
                 -       Irrigation methods and design.
                 -       Environmental management plan.
                 -       Enviromental concerns and simple mitigation measures to be accounted for both in
                 design and supervision.
                 -       Collection and analysis of agricultural, economical and environmental data.
                 -       Study tour to increase awareness of land development and hill lakes projects in
                 other countries
                 -       GIS application


6. Lessons Learnt for consideration in future projects

Based on our experience in the implementation and follow-up of the Project, the lessons suggested to be
considered for future projects can be summarized as follows:

         Being a key item in the further evaluation of the project performance and the corresponding success
or lack thereof of the project, the Staff Appraisal Report needs to reflect the true needs and realistic targets
and hence be based upon accurate and reasonable data covering all aspects of the project, especially the
administrative and technical capability of the implementing body. Weak data lead to unrealistic targets,
which in turn would lead to various reallocations and affect the rate of achievement. Details of the
weaknesses of data in the SAR need a special study.

         The presence of well-informed and trained personnel being mandatory to the successful launching
and implementation of the project, it is highly important to recruit, at the starting stage of the Project, the
required key personnel experienced in the implementation of international loans such as the IBRD and
IFAD. Alternatively, the key personnel involved with loan activities need to be adequately trained.

         The training suggested here above needs to cover all loan aspects and requirements, including
language. Indeed, besides the lack of understanding of IBRD and IFAD guidelines and rules, language


                                                     - 43 -

constraints have lead to the incapability of some of the key personnel in the Finance and Administrative
departments to understand the Project documents and reports, which has created confusion and at times
wrong interpretation of the Project procedure and rules.

         Dealing with three different sources for the Project budget, namely IBRD, IFAD and Lebanese
Government, has caused complications and difficulties to the Finance Department, especially given the
difference in the closing dates of the IBRD and IFAD loans. This has caused some confusion and
difficulties with regard to staff employment on the one hand, and the assessment of the economical impact
of the project as well as the preparation of the Project Completion Report on the other. Although project
activities have been implemented by one body, several decisions need the approval of the two different
agencies.

         Having to refer to two different ministers, namely of Finance and Agriculture, in implementing
some of its activities, has also been a source of difficulty and delay.

         Political intervention with the implementation of some activities, particularly roads' construction,
has at times had an impact on the smooth and timely standard procedures, which involve technical,
economical and environmental criteria.

         The current procedure starting from submitting the farmers' application to the execution and final
payment needs to be revised and shortened. It is advised to reduce the number of redundant or unnecessary
steps.

         Although this may be difficult to achieve from the practical point of view, priority in executing the
GP activities should be given to the poorest farmers, especially those effectively living in their villages.
This, if possible, would aim at inciting them to remain in the villages instead of moving to larger cities with
better income opportunities.

         The need to follow up on the developed land after execution as well as provide the needed technical
assistance to the farmers has proven to be important. Also arrangements for the maintenance of the
agricultural roads need to be reached.

         The technical conditions for accepting land development applications should be revised, especially
with regard to the slope and the presence of rocks. The high cost of developing certain rocky or slopy lands
makes it uneconomical for agricultural use




                                                      - 44 -

C. Detailed economic analysis (a series of EXCEL tables)
Table 1
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Project Costs - Green Plan (GP)
(US$)




                                                       Quantity                  Total US$                      1             2             3          4        5          6          7
                                                                                                            1999           2000         2001       2002      2003      2004       2005
                                         unit by closing till 10/31/04 by closing till 10/31/04                                                                    10 months from 11/04


Disbursements (IBRD loan) 1/                                               18,736,399   14,578,732     1,315,852    1,404,065      2,762,440   3,859,315 3,133,555 2,103,505  4,157,667

1. Civil Works                                                             16,855,189 13,014,199       1,282,710    1,342,505      2,251,918   3,494,694 2,833,449 1,808,923  3,840,990
    Land terracing                        ha         3,232          3,103  10,010,636    8,396,811       980,273      756,247      1,523,442   1,787,922 1,763,441 1,585,486  1,613,825
    Hill pond construction            106 m3            51            42      315,940      277,829        60,994        64,320        70,787      36,027    33,280    12,421     38,111
    Concrete basin                    102 m3         1,076            786   1,554,474    1,245,380       110,843      163,909        306,166    528,844   103,988     31,630    309,094
    Localized Irrigation network          ha           232            182     186,364      142,698        19,999        18,161        18,626      38,684    21,095    26,133     43,666
    Roads construction                    km           114            75    4,787,775    2,951,482       110,602      339,868        332,897   1,103,217  911,645    153,253  1,836,293

2. Goods                                                                      912,637      742,594        16,623        12,304       339,702    159,229   127,801     86,935    170,043
    Office equipment                                                          329,484      216,942              0           112       25,113      89,825    87,242    14,650    112,542
    Vehicles                              no.           32            27      279,045      279,045              0             0      279,045           0        0          0          0
    Seedlings                            '000          219            205     236,597      198,138        14,704          9,980       31,104      60,425    30,431    51,493     38,459
    Irrigation equipment                  ha            73            49       67,511        48,469         1,919         2,212         4,440      8,979    10,128    20,792     19,042

3. Consultants, training and studies                                          968,573      821,938        16,518        49,256       170,820    205,392   172,305    207,647    146,635
    Consultants & studies/ audits                                             789,597      678,722          1,991       40,767       156,325    192,002   115,999    171,638    110,875
    Training                                                                  178,976      143,216        14,527          8,489       14,495      13,390    56,306    36,009     35,760



Disbursements (IFAD loan) 2/                                               11,986,640    4,081,574              0             0      377,542    843,854   849,982  2,010,196  7,905,066

1. Civil Works                                                             11,986,640    4,081,574              0             0      377,542    843,854   849,982  2,010,196  7,905,066
    Terrace-Wall construction             ha           990            439   8,229,470    3,411,593              0             0      377,542    843,854   815,088  1,375,109  4,817,877
    Hill ponds and irrigation         106 m3            55              9     887,320      155,376              0             0             0          0    7,710    147,666    731,944
    Concrete basin                    102 m3         1,900            330   2,869,850      514,605              0             0             0          0    27,184   487,421  2,355,245
    Roads construction                    km              0             0            0            0             0             0             0          0        0          0          0

    Year 1 (1999) includes all realizations since project effectiveness in May 1997. Data for 2004 are only 10 months (till October 31, 2004).
    Source: data from GP financial reports (1999 - 2004) and final totals from World Bank.
Table 1 (Cont.)


                                                       Quantity                  Total US$                      1             2             3          4        5          6          7
                                                                                                            1999           2000         2001       2002      2003      2004       2005
                                         unit by closing till 10/31/04 by closing till 10/31/04                                                                    10 months from 11/04

TOTAL COSTS 3/                                                             79,098,837 62,077,891

1. Civil Works                                                             36,052,286 21,369,717       1,603,388    1,678,132      3,286,825   5,423,185 4,604,289 4,773,899 14,682,569
    Land terracing                                                         12,513,295   10,496,014     1,225,342      945,309      1,904,302   2,234,903 2,204,301 1,981,858  2,017,281
    Terrace-Wall construction                                              10,286,838    4,264,491              0             0      471,928   1,054,818 1,018,860 1,718,886  6,022,346
    Hill pond construction                                                  1,504,075      541,506        76,242        80,400        88,484      45,034    51,238   200,109    962,569
    Concrete basin                                                          5,530,404    2,199,981       138,553      204,886        382,707    661,055   163,965    648,814  3,330,424
    Localized Irrigation network                                              232,955      178,372        24,998        22,702        23,282      48,355    26,369    32,666     54,583
    Roads construction                                                      5,984,719    3,689,352       138,253      424,835        416,121   1,379,021 1,139,556   191,566  2,295,366

2. Goods                                                                    1,140,796      928,243        20,779        15,380       424,628    199,036   159,751    108,669    212,554
    Office equipment                                                          411,855      271,177              0           140       31,391    112,281   109,053     18,313    140,678
    Vehicles                                                                  348,806      348,806              0             0      348,806           0        0          0          0
    Seedlings                                                                 295,746      247,672        18,380        12,475        38,881      75,531    38,039    64,366     48,074
    Irrigation equipment                                                       84,389        60,587         2,398         2,765         5,550     11,224    12,660    25,990     23,802

3. Consultants, training and studies                                          968,573      821,938        16,518        49,256       170,820    205,392   172,305    207,647    146,635
    Consultants & studies/ audits                                             789,597      678,722          1,991       40,767       156,325    192,002   115,999    171,638    110,875
    Training                                                                  178,976      143,216        14,527          8,489       14,495      13,390    56,306    36,009     35,760

4. Additional costs supported by Government 4/                              2,153,182    1,721,993        79,458      149,997        299,386    428,480   357,422    407,250    431,189

5. Additional investment costs supported by farmers 5/                     38,784,000 37,236,000



FINANCING 6/                                                               79,098,837 62,077,891

    World Bank                                                             18,736,399   14,578,732
    IFAD                                                                   11,986,640    4,081,574
    Farmers' contribution                                                  40,473,295   38,652,962
    Government                                                              7,902,503    4,764,623

    Year 1 (1999) includes all realizations since project effectiveness in May 1997. Data for 2004 are only 10 months (till October 31, 2004).
    Source: data from GP financial reports (1999 - 2004) and final totals from World Bank.




                                                                                           - 45 -

Table 1 (Cont.)


               COSTS AND FINANCING BY COMPONENT                                              TOTAL
                                                                                             COSTS                IBRD            IFAD          farmers             Govt

TOTAL PROJECT                                                                               79,098,837     18,736,399      11,986,640       42,854,514        5,521,284

A. Land and Water Development                                                               70,643,406 12,840,565 11,986,640 42,854,514                       2,961,688
    Land terracing                                                                          12,513,295     10,010,636                        1,689,295           813,364
    Terrace-Wall construction                                                               10,286,838                       8,229,470       1,388,723           668,644
    Hill pond construction                                                                   1,504,075         315,940          887,320         203,050           97,765
    Concrete basin                                                                           5,530,404       1,554,474       2,869,850          746,605          359,476
    Localized Irrigation network                                                               232,955         186,364                           31,449           15,142
    Office equipment                        7/                                                 158,406         126,725                                            31,681
    Vehicles                                7/                                                 271,294         217,035                                            54,259
    Seedlings                                                                                  295,746         236,597                                            59,149
    Irrigation equipment                                                                        84,389          67,511                           11,392             5,485
    Consultants & studies/ audits           7/                                                        0               0                                                 0
    Training                                7/                                                 125,283         125,283                                                  0
    Additional costs supported by Govt 8/                                                      856,721                                                           856,721
    Additional costs supported by farmers                                                   38,784,000                                      38,784,000                  0

B. Agricultural Roads                                                                        6,385,146       4,953,783                 0                 0    1,431,363
    Roads construction                                                                       5,984,719       4,787,775                 0                      1,196,944
    Office equipment                        7/                                                  21,121          16,897                                              4,224
    Vehicles                                7/                                                  25,838          20,670                                              5,168
    Consultants & studies/ audits           7/                                                 110,544         110,544                                                  0
    Training                                7/                                                  17,898          17,898                                                  0
    Additional costs supported by Govt 8/                                                      225,028                                                           225,028

C. Institutional Support                                                                     2,070,285         942,051                 0                 0    1,128,233
    Office equipment                        7/                                                 232,328         185,863                                            46,466
    Vehicles                                7/                                                  51,675          41,340                                            10,335
    Consultants & studies/ audits           7/                                                 679,053         679,053                                                  0
    Training                                7/                                                  35,795          35,795                                                  0
    Additional costs supported by Govt 8/                                                    1,071,432                                                        1,071,432




Table 1 (Cont.)




1/ Actual disbursements up to October 31, 2004 - Source: Project reports from GP ("World Bank Commitments and Expenditures", 1/1/1998 to 10/31/2004).
   Balance for "2005" calculated on the basis of total final quantities and disbursements from World Bank.

2/ Actual disbursements up to October 31, 2004 - Source: Project reports from GP ("IFAD Commitments and Expenditures").
   Figures indicated for 2005 are estimates by GP of additional eligible disbursement applications expected to be submitted to IFAD before the loan closing date of December 31, 2005,
   estimated on the basis of the following undisbursed commitments (as of October 31, 2004) and additional works:

                                                           undisbursed      realization            additional
                                                           commitment       by Dec.05              by Dec.05
                                                  no.unit            US$             %      no.unit        US$
   Terrace-Wall construction             ha           368     3,217,747          100%          183   1,600,130
   Hill ponds and irrigation         106 m3            19      302,325           100%           27     429,619
   Concrete basin                    102 m3        1,134      1,701,177          100%          436     654,068
   Roads construction                    km              0              0        100%            0

3/ Estimates of total project costs are based on the following disbursement percentages under the IBRD and IFAD loans:
   1. Civil Works                                    80%
   2. Goods                                          80%
   3. Consultants, training and studies            100%

4/ Additional costs supported entirely by Government are as follows (LL '000):
                                                    1999            2000          2001       2002          2003       2004          2005          total
        Additional staff                          83,638         26,445       351,894      446,845     426,894      396,610       307,783    2,040,108
        Staff incentives                          35,550       198,550         93,884      136,618       70,779     120,908       162,000       818,289
        Road maintenance                                -              -             -          -            -            -            -              0
        Vehicles O&M                                    -              -           618      27,694        8,990      21,000        30,000        88,302
        Office Supplies                                 -              -         2,683      29,044       26,269           -        27,000        84,996
        Other Overhead Running Costs                    -              -             -       2,519        3,201      72,357       120,000       198,077
            TOTAL (LL '000)                      119,188       224,995        449,079      642,720     536,133      610,875       646,783    3,229,772
        eqvt US$                                  79,458       149,997        299,386      428,480     357,422      407,250       431,189    2,153,182
        exchange rate US$1 = LL       1,500




                                                                                        - 46 -

5/ As considered at appraisal and MTR, additional investment costs borne solely by farmers to complete the land development investment include crop establishment and crop husbandry costs
   during the initial years of orchard establishment. In accordance with SAR/MTR methodology, they are calculated on the basis of the area of land terracing works:

                                                        SAR        MTR (additional to 370 ha already completed)                                      ICR
   land terracing area (ha)                            3140       2130                                                                             3,232
   additional farmers' investment ($'000)            31,400      21,300 base cost without contingencies                                           38,784
                                                     44,785      24,744 total cost including physical and price contingencies
   average addit. investment USD/ha                  10,000      10,000 base cost                                                                 12,000
                                                     14,263      11,617 including contingencies

6/ Respective contributions from farmers and from Government for items financed under the Bank and IFAD loans are estimated on the basis of existing cost-sharing arrangements between
   farmers and the GP. There is an aggregate lifetime ceiling for financial assistance per farmer of LL 10 million. For mechanized works (e.g. land terracing), financial assistance from the GP
   covers 90% of total cost for the first LL 3 million, 85% between LL 3-6 million, and 80% above LL 6 million.
   For land terracing, the GP estimates that its resulting weighted average financial contribution is about             86.5%
                                              with the balance of               13.5% paid by farmers.
   Standardized contributions are paid to farmers by the GP for various other types of works, currently set as follows:
       terrace-wall                         6 $/m2
       hill pond (large)                    3 $/m3
       concrete basin                      20 $/m3
       irrigation network/ equipt       1000 $/ha
       seedlings                        1.5-2 $/seedling

7/ Breakdown of costs by component is estimated as follows:

                                              land & water     ag.roads inst.support           total
       Office equipment                                  15           2             22           39 computers
       Vehicles                                          21           2              4           27 vehicles
       Consultants & studies/ audits                     0%        14%           86%          100%
       Training                                         70%        10%           20%          100%

8/ Breakdown of costs by component is estimated as follows:

                                              land & water     ag.roads inst.support           total
       Additional staff                                 50%        12%           38%          100%
       Staff incentives                                 20%        10%           70%          100%
       Road maintenance                                  0%       100%             0%         100%
       Vehicles O&M                                     78%         7%           15%          100%
       Office Supplies                                  38%         5%           56%          100%
       Other Overhead Running Costs                      0%         0%          100%          100%
       TOTAL (LL '000)                           1,285,082      337,542    1,607,149      3,229,772
       eqvt US$                                     856,721     225,028    1,071,432      2,153,182




                                                                                          - 47 -

Table 2
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Project Costs - Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
(US$)




                                                                  Total US$                     1            2              3            4          5         6       7
                                                                                            1999         2000         2001           2002       2003      2004     2005
                                                           by closing till 10/31/04                                                                   10 months

Disbursements (IBRD loan)                                    3,019,532     3,019,532

1. Civil Works                                                246,156        246,156
    Construction documentation center Ghazir                  246,156        246,156

2. Goods                                                      419,040        419,040
    (FAO contract)                                            419,040        419,040

3. Consultants, training and studies                         2,354,336     2,354,336
    (FAO contract)                                           2,354,336     2,354,336



Government contribution                                      1,707,539     1,540,925

1. Civil Works                                                  61,539       61,539
    Construction documentation center Ghazir 1/                 61,539       61,539

4. Government contribution FAO contract 2/                   1,646,000     1,479,386   1,069,016      108,892       84,523          66,541     83,119    67,296  166,614



TOTAL COSTS                                                  4,727,071     4,560,457

1. Civil Works                                                307,695        307,695
    Construction documentation center Ghazir                  307,695        307,695

2. Goods                                                      419,040        419,040
    (FAO contract)                                            419,040        419,040

3. Consultants, training and studies                         2,354,336     2,354,336
    (FAO contract)                                           2,354,336     2,354,336

4. Government contribution FAO contract 2/                   1,646,000     1,479,386

    Year 1 (1999) includes all realizations since project effectiveness in May 1997. Data for 2004 are only 10 months (till October 31, 2004).

 1/ Based on disbursement percentage under the IBRD loan:                      80%
 2/ Including expenses for personnel, travel expenses, operation and maintenance, supplies.




                                                                                     - 48 -

Table 3
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Economic Analysis
(US$ '000)



                                                         Total/ Full          1         2         3         4           5         6         7          8          9       10         11        12
                                                      development         1999       2000      2001      2002       2003      2004       2005      2006       2007      2008       2009      2010

Land and Water Development

 Economic costs 1/
      project investment costs 2/                            30,448       1,486     1,269     2,915      4,131      3,515     4,673    12,459          0          0        0          0          0
      recurrent costs (O&M) 3/

 Economic benefits 4/                                                         0       -21         5        127        319       644     1,120      1,696     2,407     3,183      3,871     4,540

 Base case
      Net Economic Benefits                                              -1,486    -1,290    -2,910     -4,004     -3,196    -4,028   -11,339      1,696     2,407     3,183      3,871     4,540
      NPV @ 12%                                                2,951
      Economic rate of return                                   14%
 Benefits -20%
      Net Economic Benefits                                              -1,486    -1,285    -2,911     -4,029     -3,260    -4,157   -11,563      1,357     1,926     2,546      3,097     3,632
      NPV @ 12%                                              -1,046
      Economic rate of return                                   11%
 Benefits lag 2 years
      Net Economic Benefits                                              -1,486    -1,269    -2,915     -4,152     -3,510    -4,546   -12,140        644     1,120     1,696      2,407     3,183
      NPV @ 12%                                              -1,609
      Economic rate of return                                   11%
 Benefits -20% and lag 2 years
      Net Economic Benefits                                              -1,486    -1,269    -2,915     -4,148     -3,511    -4,571   -12,204        515       896     1,357      1,926     2,546
      NPV @ 12%                                              -4,695
      Economic rate of return                                    9%



Agricultural Roads

 Economic costs 1/
      project investment costs 5/                              5,985        138       425       416      1,379      1,140       192     2,295          0          0        0          0          0
      recurrent costs (O&M) 6/                                   114                    3        11        19         45         67        70        114       114       114        114       114

 Economic benefits 4/                                          2,338        -14       -30        11        -44        112       339       219        739       932     1,123      1,226     1,540

 Base case
      Net Economic Benefits                                               -152       -457      -416     -1,442     -1,072        81    -2,147        625       818     1,009      1,112     1,426
      NPV @ 12%                                                1,855
      Economic rate of return                                   17%
 Benefits -20%
      Net Economic Benefits                                               -149       -451      -418     -1,433     -1,095        13    -2,191        477       632       784        867     1,118
      NPV @ 12%                                                  699
      Economic rate of return                                   14%
 Benefits lag 2 years
      Net Economic Benefits                                               -138       -427      -441     -1,427     -1,174      -303    -2,254        225       105       625        818     1,009
      NPV @ 12%                                                  551
      Economic rate of return                                   13%
 Benefits -20% and lag 2 years
      Net Economic Benefits                                               -138       -427      -438     -1,421     -1,176      -294    -2,276        157        61       477        632       784
      NPV @ 12%                                                 -345
      Economic rate of return                                   11%



Overall project (Green Plan) 7/

 Economic costs 1/
      project investment costs                               40,315       1,720     1,893     4,182      6,256      5,294     5,497    15,473          0          0        0          0          0
      recurrent costs (O&M) 6/                                   114          0         3        11        19         45         67        70        114       114       114        114       114

 Economic benefits 4/                                                       -14       -51        16        82         431       984     1,338      2,434     3,339     4,306      5,096     6,080

 Base case
      Net Economic Benefits                                              -1,734    -1,946    -4,177     -6,192     -4,907    -4,580   -14,205      2,320     3,225     4,192      4,982     5,966
      NPV @ 12%                                                2,474
      Economic rate of return                                   13%
 Benefits -20%
      Net Economic Benefits                                              -1,731    -1,936    -4,180     -6,209     -4,994    -4,777   -14,472      1,834     2,557     3,331      3,963     4,750
      NPV @ 12%                                              -2,680
      Economic rate of return                                   11%



  1/ Economic costs are derived from financial costs by applying a conversion factor of             1
  2/ Based on financial costs for civil works, seedlings and irrigation equipment given in Table 1. Excludes additional investment costs supported by farmers (orchard establishment), which are taken into account in on-
      and incremental net economic benefits.
  3/ Recurrent (O&M) costs of land and water infrastructure (terraces, walls and irrigation) are supported entirely by farmers and included in on-farm costs and incremental net economic benefits
  4/ Based on incremental crop production benefits at full development calculated in Table 6.
  5/ Based on financial costs for civil works given in table 1. Excludes additional investment costs supported by farmers (orchard establishment), which are taken into account in on-farm costs and incremental net econ
      benefits.
  6/ Recurrent (O&M) costs of maintenance of agricultural roads are estimated on annual basis at US$                  1000 per km
  7/ The aggregate economic analysis for the project as a whole takes into account all the costs and benefits related to the land and water development component, agricultural roads and institutional support to the GP
      investment costs supported by farmers (orchard establishment) are taken into account in on-farm costs and incremental net economic benefits. In accordance with the methodology adopted at appraisal, institutiona
      to the MOA is excluded from the economic analysis.




                                                                                          - 49 -

Table 4
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Farmgate Financial Prices and Economic Values of Main Project Outputs and Inputs
(constant 2004 prices)




   Item                                            Unit           Financial 1/     Economic 2/       Conversion Factor
   A. Outputs
   Wheat
      wheat                                      US$/kg                    0.3               0.22                   0.74
      straw                                      US$/kg                   0.05               0.05                   1.00
   Vegetables
      potato                                     US$/kg                    0.3                0.3                   1.00
      squash                                     US$/kg                    0.6                0.6                   1.00
      cucumber                                   US$/kg                    0.4                0.4                   1.00
      green bean                                 US$/kg                    0.6                0.6                   1.00
      pea                                        US$/kg                    0.5                0.5                   1.00
      onion                                      US$/kg                    0.3                0.3                   1.00
      eggplant                                   US$/kg                    0.6                0.6                   1.00
      tomato                                     US$/kg                   0.27               0.27                   1.00
      mixed vegetables                           US$/kg                    0.4               0.4                    1.00
   Olive                                         US$/kg                    0.8                0.8                   1.00
   Fruit
      apple                                      US$/kg                    0.5                0.5                   1.00
      almond                                     US$/kg                    0.6                0.6                   1.00
      cherry                                     US$/kg                   0.69               0.69                   1.00
      apricot                                    US$/kg                   0.53               0.53                   1.00
      pear                                       US$/kg                   0.58               0.58                   1.00
      citrus (mixed)                             US$/kg                    0.4                0.4                   1.00
      peach                                      US$/kg                    0.6                0.6                   1.00
      grape (wine)                               US$/kg                   0.25               0.25                   1.00
      grape (table)                              US$/kg                    0.5                0.5                   1.00
      mixed fruit                                US$/kg                    0.5               0.5                    1.00

   B. Inputs
   Seeds & plants:
      wheat seed                                 US$/kg                    0.4               0.29                   0.74
      mixed vegetables seeds/seedlings           US$/ha                    400               400                    1.00
      olive seedlings                            US$/ha                    450               450                    1.00
      mixed fruit seedlings                      US$/ha                    175               175                    1.00
   Fertilizers & pesticides:
      NPK                                        US$/kg                    0.8               0.57                   0.71
      Organic fertilizer                        US$/bag                      3                  3                   1.00
      Pesticides                                                                                                    1.00
   Mechanization:
      Tractor use (ploughing)                   US$/hour                    15                 15                   1.00
      Threshing machine                         US$/hour                    16                 16                   1.00
      Transport (medium size truck)             US$/truck                   20                 20                   1.00
   Various:
      Bag (cereal)                              US$/bag                   0.25               0.25                   1.00
      Bag (olive)                               US$/bag                    0.2                0.2                   1.00
      Plastic box (fruit)                       US$/box                    0.4                0.4                   1.00
      Plastic box (vegetable)                   US$/box                    0.5                0.5                   1.00
      Water                                                                                                         1.00
   Labor
      Ordinary labor                            US$/day                     10                 10                   1.00
      Pruning                                   US$/day                     20                 20                   1.00



 1/ Sources: 2004 farmgate prices from the GP M&E unit.
 2/ See details in Table 5. Outputs that are either not internationally traded or for which no world market reference price is obtainable,
    and inputs other than fertilizers, are valued at financial prices.




                                                                      - 50 -

Table 5
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Derivation of Conversion Factors for Major Project Outputs and Inputs
(Import Parity Prices)




                                                     Units        Wheat      Urea      TSP     KCl

    Projected World Price (2015)
    In 1990 constant dollars 1/                     US$/MT         141.3     118.5    140.4   109.4
    Adjustment factor (June 2004) dollars 2/                       96.39     96.39    96.39   96.39
    In constant June 2004 dollars                   US$/MT         136.2     114.2    135.3   105.5
    Freight Insurance and Storage                   US$/MT           35.0     35.0     35.0    35.0
    CIF Beirut in 2003 constant price               US$/MT         171.2     149.2    170.3   140.5
    Exchange rate 3/                                LL/US$         1,500     1,500    1,500   1,500
    CIF Beirut in 2003 constant price                 LL/kg           257      224      255     211
    Local Transport and Handling                      LL/kg            34       34      34       34
    Value in Store Producing Area                     LL/kg           291      258      289     245
    Collection and Losses 4/                          LL/kg           -15
    Economic Value Farmgate                           LL/kg           276      258      289     245
    Financial Price Farmgate (2004)                   LL/kg           375
    Conversion factor (CF)                                           0.74

    Nutrient Content                                                          46%      40%    60%
    Economic Value, 100% nutrient content                                      561      724     408
    Economic Value, 17% nutrient content                                        95      123      69
    Economic Value of NPK 17-17-17                                                  288
    Financial Price of NPK 17-17-17 (2004)                                          405
    Conversion Factor                                                               0.71



 1/ Source: World Bank Commodity price projections as of November 16, 2004.
 2/ World Bank estimate of MUV index :                1990 =          100
    (as of June 24, 2003)                             2004 =       96.39
 3/ Exchange rate June 2004 : US$ 1 = LL                1,500
 4/ Collection and losses on crops estimated at           5%




                                                            - 51 -

Table 6
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Crop Benefits
(US$ '000)



Crop benefits are calculated on the basis of crop budgets detailed in Tables 7 to 10



A. Land and Water Development
                                                                                              incremental production           additional
                                                                                                  at full devpt (ton)       orchard area (ha)
    Total area benefiting from land terracing (ha)                   3,232                   cereals       4,848
    Average area per application (ha) 1/                              0.69                vegetables       8,726
    Number of families benefiting                                    4,707                     olive       4,072                     679
    Number of beneficiaries                                         34,631                 other fruit    17,453                   1,164

                                                               Total/ Full          1    2         3           4        5    6         7         8      9     10    11      12
                                                           development          1999   2000    2001        2002      2003  2004     2005     2006   2007   2008   2009   2010

Land terracing (ha) 2/                                               3,232        316   244      492         577      569   512      521

Area newly developed (ha) 3/                                         3,232             158       280         368      535   573      541      516     261      0     0       0
    year 1 terraces                                                                     158      158           0        0    0
    year 2 terraces                                                                              122         122        0    0         0
    year 3 terraces                                                                                          246      246    0         0         0
    year 4 terraces                                                                                                   289   289        0         0      0
    year 5 terraces                                                                                                         285      285         0      0      0
    year 6 terraces                                                                                                                  256      256       0      0     0
    year 7 terraces                                                                                                                           261     261      0     0       0

Incremental net financial benefit (US$ '000)                         8,937              -19        14        152      367   720    1,228     1,833  2,565  3,347  4,024  4,669
    area developed year 2                                                               -19        48        111      123   152      190      225     262    307   321     341
    area developed year 3                                                                         -34         85      197   218      268      336     399    464   544     568
    area developed year 4                                                                                    -45      111   259      286      352     441    524   610     714
    area developed year 5                                                                                             -65   161      377      415     512    641   761     885
    area developed year 6                                                                                                   -69      173      404     445    549   687     817
    area developed year 7                                                                                                             -66     163     381    420   518     648
    area developed year 8                                                                                                                      -63    156    364   401     494
    area developed year 9                                                                                                                             -32     79   184     202
    area developed year 10                                                                                                                                     0     0       0
    area developed year 11                                                                                                                                           0       0
    area developed year 12                                                                                                                                                   0

Incremental net economic benefit (US$ '000)                          8,985              -21        5         127      319   644    1,120     1,696  2,407  3,183  3,871  4,540
    area developed year 2                                                               -21        43        100      113   142      182      218     257    303   317     341
    area developed year 3                                                                         -37         76      178   201      252      323     387    456   536     561
    area developed year 4                                                                                    -49       99   234      264      331     424    508   598     704
    area developed year 5                                                                                             -71   144      339      383     480    616   738     869
    area developed year 6                                                                                                   -77      155      364     411    515   661     791
    area developed year 7                                                                                                             -72     146     343    388   486     623
    area developed year 8                                                                                                                      -69    139    328   370     464
    area developed year 9                                                                                                                             -35     70   165     187
    area developed year 10                                                                                                                                     0     0       0
    area developed year 11                                                                                                                                           0       0
    area developed year 12                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                          - 52 -

B. Agricultural Roads

                                                                                    incremental production           additional
    Total potential crop areas along new roads (ha): 4/                                 at full devpt (ton)       orchard area (ha)
       existing cropped areas                                 1,082                cereals         853
       areas suitable for development                            852            vegetables       1,784
    Number of families benefiting                                594                 olive         664                      89
    Number of beneficiaries                                   5,171              other fruit     3,251                     153

                                                          Total/ Full    1     2          3          4       5      6        7         8      9     10     11     12
                                                        development    1999  2000    2001        2002      2003  2004     2005     2006   2007   2008   2009   2010

Roads construction (km) 5/                                       114     3     8          8         26       22     4       44

Existing cropped areas served by new road (ha) 5/             1,082     25    77         75        249      206    35      415

Area suitable for development served by road (ha) 5/             852    20    60         59        196      162    27      327

Area newly developed (ha) 6/                                     426           2          8         14      34     50       51        77     71     52     35     33
    year 1 roads                                                               2          2          2       2      2
    year 2 roads                                                                          6          6       6      6        6
    year 3 roads                                                                                     6       6      6        6         6
    year 4 roads                                                                                             20    20       20        20     20
    year 5 roads                                                                                                   16       16        16     16     16
    year 6 roads                                                                                                             3         3      3      3      3
    year 7 roads                                                                                                                      33     33     33     33     33

Incremental net financial benefit (US$ '000)                  2,363           27       111         196      474   714      784     1,277  1,337  1,418  1,504  1,591
    existing cropped areas 7/                                                 27       111         194      467   692      730     1,184  1,184  1,184  1,184  1,184
    area developed year 2                                                      0          1          1       2      2        2         3      3      4      4      4
    area developed year 3                                                                -1          2       6      6        8        10     11     13     16     16
    area developed year 4                                                                           -2       4     10       11        13     17     20     23     27
    area developed year 5                                                                                    -4    10       24        26     32     40     48     56
    area developed year 6                                                                                          -6       15        35     39     48     60     71
    area developed year 7                                                                                                    -6       15     36     39     48     61
    area developed year 8                                                                                                             -9     23     54     60     74
    area developed year 9                                                                                                                    -9     22     50     55
    area developed year 10                                                                                                                          -6     16     36
    area developed year 11                                                                                                                                 -4     11
    area developed year 12                                                                                                                                        -4
less costs of terracing and walls for new areas 8/                      14    56         97        235      348   353      540       498   361    248    228       0

Incremental net economic benefit (US$ '000)                   2,338           26       108         190      460   693      758     1,237  1,293  1,370  1,454  1,540
    existing cropped areas 7/                                                 27       109         189      454   674      711     1,153  1,153  1,153  1,153  1,153
    area developed year 2                                                      0          1          1       1      2        2         3      3      4      4      4
    area developed year 3                                                                -1          2       5      6        7         9     11     13     15     16
    area developed year 4                                                                           -2       4      9       10        13     16     19     23     27
    area developed year 5                                                                                    -4     9       21        24     30     39     46     55
    area developed year 6                                                                                          -7       13        32     36     45     57     69
    area developed year 7                                                                                                    -7       14     32     36     45     58
    area developed year 8                                                                                                            -10     21     49     55     69
    area developed year 9                                                                                                                   -10     19     45     51
    area developed year 10                                                                                                                          -7     14     33
    area developed year 11                                                                                                                                 -5     10
    area developed year 12                                                                                                                                        -4
less costs of terracing and walls for new areas 8/                      14    56         97        235      348   353      540       498   361    248    228       0




                                                                               - 53 -

1/ Based on the following data from the GP (as of October 31, 2004):
        Total land terracing area (ha)                                3,094
        Number of applications                                        4,506
        Average household size                                          7.4
        Number of beneficiaries                                     33,152

2/ Annual physical realizations are estimated on the basis of annual expenditures for land terracing (Table 1).

3/ Based on surveys carried out by the GP M&E unit, it is estimated that terraced areas are fully developed over a period of                2 years following terracing, with the following cropping pattern:
                                                    cereals      25%
                                                vegetables       18%
                                                       olive     21%
                                                  other fruit    36%
   Before terracing, surveys show that close to                  100%       of this land was under fallow.
   Based on this cropping pattern and crop budgets (Tables 7 to 10), average net income per hectare developed is estimated as follows:

                                                                     at full
                              US$/ha                         development              1         2          3         4           5          6          7          8           9         10        11         12

   Before terracing
        Net income (financial prices)                                     0           0         0          0         0           0          0          0          0           0          0         0         0
        Net income (economic values)                                      0           0         0          0         0           0          0          0          0           0          0         0         0
   After terracing
        Net income (financial prices)                                 2,765       -121       302         704      776         957      1,199      1,425       1,656      1,939      2,026      2,154     2,252
        Net income (economic values)                                  2,780       -134       270         635      717         898      1,152      1,380       1,626      1,912      2,002      2,153     2,260
   Incremental net benefit
        Financial                                                     2,765       -121       302         704      776         957      1,199      1,425       1,656      1,939      2,026      2,154     2,252
        Economic                                                      2,780       -134       270         635      717         898      1,152      1,380       1,626      1,912      2,002      2,153     2,260

4/ Based on the following data collected by the GP M&E unit (for all roads constructed or expected to be constructed under the project):
                                                             committed as additional
                                                                of 10/31/04     roads                   total
   Number of roads                                                       35           5
   Total length (km)                                                  118.9       13.8                 132.7
   Total area served by the roads (ha)                                 2781        378
   Number of families benefiting                                        614          77                  691
   Average household size                                               8.6         9.9
   Number of beneficiaries                                             5259        760                  6019
   Existing cropped area served by the roads (ha)                      1098        162                  1260
   Area suitable for additional development (ha)                        801        191                   992
        length completed under the project                                                             114.0
        completion rate                                                                                 86%

5/ Annual physical realizations are estimated on the basis of annual expenditures for roads construction (Table 1).

6/ Based on surveys carried out by the GP M&E unit, it is estimated that                     50% of the areas suitable for additional development will be developed
                                                            over a period of          5 years following roads construction, with cropping patterns identical to new terraced areas (note 3/ above)

7/ Cropping patterns for existing cropped areas along new roads, as surveyed by the GP, are as follows:
                                                    cereals      22%
                                                vegetables       26%
                                                       olive     13%
                                                  other fruit    39%
   Based on this cropping pattern and crop budgets (Tables 7 to 10), average incremental net benefit per hectare of existing cropped area is estimated as follows:
                                    Incremental net benefit         US$/ha
                                                  Financial           1,094
                                                  Economic            1,065

8/ It is estimated that terracing is needed for close to         100%       of newly developed areas, with about          30%      of terraces requiring construction of retaining walls.
   Based on actual average unit costs derived from Table 1, this corresponds to an average investment cost of               6,989 US$/ha of new land development.




                                                                                               - 54 -

Table 7
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Crop Budget - Olive



Financial prices and economic values for crop outputs and inputs (2004 prices) are given in Table 4



A. Yields and Inputs (per hectare)

                                           existing
                                           technol.                                                New technology
                                   unit                        1          2           3         4         5      6     7     8     9    10   11    12     13

Yield                              kg                          0          0           0        50      300    1000  1500  2000  2500  3000  3500  4000  5000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                hour                       10          10         10         10       10      10   10     10    10    10   10    10     10
   Olives seedlings              $ value                     450
   Chemical fertilizer             kg                        75          75        100        100      100     125   175   250   313   375   438   625   688
   Organic fertilizer              bag                         0         13           0        20         0     40     0    67     0    83    0    100     0
   Pesticides                    $ value                     50          50         50         50       50      80   80    100   200   350   400   450   500
   Bags                            unit                        0          0           0         0         5     15   25     30    40    55   65    75     90
   Transport                      truck                        0          0           0         0      0.25    0.5  0.75   1.5  1.75     2    2     2      2
Labor
   Planting                      pers.day                    10
   Weeding                       pers.day                    10          10         10         10       10      10   10     10    10    10   10    10     10
   Pruning                       pers.day                      0          0        0.5          0         0    0.5     0     3     4     6    7     8      9
   Picking                       pers.day                      0          0           0         0         8     12   20     25    34    40   47    53     67
   Cleaning                      pers.day                      0          0           0         0       0.3      1   1.5     2   2.5     3   3.5    4      5
   Loading                       pers.day                      0          0           0         0       0.2      1     1     1     1     1   1.5    2      2




B. Financial Budget (US$ per hectare)

                                           existing
                                           technol.                                                New technology
                                   unit                        1          2           3         4         5      6     7     8     9    10   11    12     13

Revenue                          US$/ha         4080           0          0           0        40      240     800  1200  1600  2000  2400  2800  3200  4000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing               US$/ha          165         150        150        150        150      150     150   150   150   150   150   150   150   150
   Olives seedlings              US$/ha             0        450          0           0         0         0      0     0     0     0     0    0     0      0
   Chemical fertilizer           US$/ha          671         60          60         80         80       80     100   140   200   250   300   350   500   550
   Organic fertilizer            US$/ha        192.5           0         40           0        60         0    120     0   200     0   250    0    300     0
   Pesticides                    US$/ha          605         50          50         50         50       50      80   80    100   200   350   400   450   500
   Bags                          US$/ha           22           0          0           0         0         1      3     5     6     8    11   13    15     18
   Transport                     US$/ha          154           0          0           0         0         5     10   15     30    35    40   40    40     40
Labor
   Planting                      US$/ha             0        100          0           0         0         0      0     0     0     0     0    0     0      0
   Weeding                       US$/ha          110         100        100        100        100      100     100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100
   Pruning                       US$/ha          220           0          0         10          0         0     10     0    60    80   120   140   160   180
   Picking                       US$/ha          880           0          0           0         0       80     120   200   250   340   400   470   530   670
   Cleaning                      US$/ha           66           0          0           0         0         3     10   15     20    25    30   35    40     50
   Loading                       US$/ha           22           0          0           0         0         2     10   10     10    10    10   15    20     20

Net income                       US$/ha        972.5        -910       -400       -390       -400      -231     87   485   474   802   639  1087   895  1722



   farmer investment cost        US$/ha                    -2331
      (crop establishment and crop husbandry costs during the initial years when net incomes are negative)




                                                                                          - 55 -

C. Economic Values (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.                                                  New technology
                                     unit                       1          2            3           4         5            6        7          8         9           10        11         12         13

Revenue                            US$/ha         4080          0          0            0         40        240         800      1200       1600      2000         2400     2800        3200      4000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                 US$/ha          165        150        150         150       150          150         150       150        150       150          150      150         150       150
   Olives seedlings                US$/ha            0        450          0            0           0         0            0        0          0         0            0         0          0           0
   Chemical fertilizer             US$/ha     476.5714         43         43          57          57         57          71        99        142       178          213      249         355       391
   Organic fertilizer              US$/ha        192.5          0         40            0         60          0         120         0        200         0          250         0        300           0
   Pesticides                      US$/ha          605         50         50          50          50         50          80        80        100       200          350      400         450       500
   Bags                            US$/ha           22          0          0            0           0         1            3        5          6         8           11        13         15         18
   Transport                       US$/ha          154          0          0            0           0         5          10        15         30        35           40        40         40         40
Labor
   Planting                        US$/ha            0        100          0            0           0         0            0        0          0         0            0         0          0           0
   Weeding                         US$/ha          110        100        100         100       100          100         100       100        100       100          100      100         100       100
   Pruning                         US$/ha          220          0          0          10            0         0          10         0         60        80          120      140         160       180
   Picking                         US$/ha          880          0          0            0           0        80         120       200        250       340          400      470         530       670
   Cleaning                        US$/ha           66          0          0            0           0         3          10        15         20        25           30        35         40         50
   Loading                         US$/ha           22          0          0            0           0         2          10        10         10        10           10        15         20         20

Net income                         US$/ha     1166.929       -893       -383        -367       -377        -208         116       526        532       874          726     1188        1040      1881




"Existing technology" refers to crops already grown in areas alongside the agricultural roads built under the project. In comparison with "New technology" at full development, production costs are higher and
gross revenue is lower by the following percentages:
   production costs                  10%     higher
   gross revenue                    -15%     lower




                                                                                            - 56 -

Table 8
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Crop Budget - Mixed Fruit



Average of Apples, Almonds, Cherries, Apricots, Pears, Citrus, Peaches, Grapes
Financial prices and economic values for crop outputs and inputs (2004 prices) are given in Table 4



A. Yields and Inputs (per hectare)

                                           existing
                                           technol.                                                 New technology
                                    unit                       1           2           3        4          5      6     7     8      9    10    11     12      13

Yield                               kg                         0           0      1000       2000      3000    5000  6000  8000  10000  11000 12000  13000  14000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                 hour                       10          10         10        10        10      10   10     10    10     10    10     10      10
   Fruit seedlings                $ value                    175
   Chemical fertilizer              kg                       138         138       138        263       263     400   400   525   525    525    763   763    763
   Organic fertilizer               bag                        3           3           3        3          3      5     5     5      7    10    10     13      13
   Pesticides                     $ value                    100         100       100        200       200     400   400   400   600    600    710   710    710
   Water                          $ value                     80          80         80        80       120     120   120   160   160    160    160   160    160
   Boxes                            unit                       0           0         50       100       150     250   300   400   500    550    600   650    700
   Transport                       truck                       0           0           1     2.25        3.5      6     7     9    11     12    13     14      15
Labor
   Planting                      pers.day                      3
   Weeding                       pers.day                     10          10         10        10        10      10   10     10    10     10    10     10      10
   Irrigation                    pers.day                      2           2           2        2          3      3     3     4      4      4    4       4      4
   Pruning                       pers.day                      0           0           1      1.5        1.5      2   2.5     3    3.5      4   4.5      5    5.5
   Picking                       pers.day                      0           0           1        5          5     15   20     30    40     50    55     60      65
   Loading                       pers.day                      0           0       0.5        0.5        0.5    0.5     1     2      3    3.5    4     4.5      5




B. Financial Budget (US$ per hectare)

                                           existing
                                           technol.                                                 New technology
                                    unit                       1           2           3        4          5      6     7     8      9    10    11     12      13

Revenue                           US$/ha        6375           0           0       500       1000      1500    2500  3000  4000   5000   5500  6000  6500   7000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                US$/ha         165         150         150       150        150       150     150   150   150   150    150    150   150    150
   Fruit seedlings                US$/ha            0        175           0           0        0          0      0     0     0      0      0    0       0      0
   Chemical fertilizer            US$/ha         671         110         110       110        210       210     320   320   420   420    420    610   610    610
   Organic fertilizer             US$/ha          44          10          10         10        10        10      15   15     15    20     30    30     40      40
   Pesticides                     US$/ha         781         100         100       100        200       200     400   400   400   600    600    710   710    710
   Water                          US$/ha         176          80          80         80        80       120     120   120   160   160    160    160   160    160
   Boxes                          US$/ha         330           0           0         20        40        60     100   120   160   200    220    240   260    280
   Transport                      US$/ha         352           0           0         20        45        70     120   140   180   220    240    260   280    300
Labor
   Planting                       US$/ha            0         30           0           0        0          0      0     0     0      0      0    0       0      0
   Weeding                        US$/ha         110         100         100       100        100       100     100   100   100   100    100    100   100    100
   Irrigation                     US$/ha          44          20          20         20        20        30      30   30     40    40     40    40     40      40
   Pruning                        US$/ha         132           0           0         20        30        30      40   50     60    70     80    90    100    110
   Picking                        US$/ha         770           0           0         10        50        50     150   200   300   400    500    550   600    650
   Loading                        US$/ha          55           0           0           5        5          5      5   10     20    30     35    40     45      50

Net income                        US$/ha        2745        -775        -570      -145         60       465     950  1345  1995   2590   2925  3020  3405   3800



   farmer investment cost         US$/ha                   -1490
       (crop establishment and crop husbandry costs during the initial years when net incomes are negative)
   terracing and wall             US$/ha                   -7054
                           FRR                              17%




                                                                                          - 57 -

C. Economic Values (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.                                                  New technology
                                     unit                       1          2            3           4         5            6         7         8         9           10        11        12          13

Revenue                            US$/ha         6375          0          0         500      1000         1500        2500      3000       4000      5000         5500     6000        6500      7000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                 US$/ha          165        150        150         150       150          150         150       150        150       150          150      150         150       150
   Fruit seedlings                 US$/ha            0        175          0            0           0         0            0         0         0         0            0         0          0           0
   Chemical fertilizer             US$/ha     476.5714         78         78          78       149          149         227       227        298       298          298      433         433       433
   Organic fertilizer              US$/ha           44         10         10          10          10         10           15       15         15        20           30        30        40          40
   Pesticides                      US$/ha          781        100        100         100       200          200         400       400        400       600          600      710         710       710
   Water                           US$/ha          176         80         80          80          80        120         120       120        160       160          160      160         160       160
   Boxes                           US$/ha          330          0          0          20          40         60         100       120        160       200          220      240         260       280
   Transport                       US$/ha          352          0          0          20          45         70         120       140        180       220          240      260         280       300
Labor
   Planting                        US$/ha            0         30          0            0           0         0            0         0         0         0            0         0          0           0
   Weeding                         US$/ha          110        100        100         100       100          100         100       100        100       100          100      100         100       100
   Irrigation                      US$/ha           44         20         20          20          20         30           30       30         40        40           40        40        40          40
   Pruning                         US$/ha          132          0          0          20          30         30           40       50         60        70           80        90        100       110
   Picking                         US$/ha          770          0          0          10          50         50         150       200        300       400          500      550         600       650
   Loading                         US$/ha           55          0          0            5           5         5            5       10         20        30           35        40        45          50

Net income                         US$/ha     2939.429       -743       -538        -113       121          526        1043      1438       2117      2712         3047     3197        3582      3977




"Existing technology" refers to crops already grown in areas alongside the agricultural roads built under the project. In comparison with "New technology" at full development, production costs are higher and
gross revenue is lower by the following percentages:
   production costs                  10%     higher
   gross revenue                    -15%     lower




                                                                                           - 58 -

Table 9
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Crop Budget - Mixed Vegetables



Average of Potatoes, Squash, Cucumber, Green beans, Peas, Onions, Eggplants, Tomatoes
Financial prices and economic values for crop outputs and inputs (2004 prices) are given in Table 4



A. Yields and Inputs (per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.            New technology
                                    unit                           1         2          3           4          5          6          7         8          9        10          11        12          13

Yield                                kg                      10000       13000     15000        15000      15000     15000     15000      15000     15000      15000       15000      15000      15000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                  hour                         10         10         10          10         10         10        10         10        10         10          10        10          10
   Seeds & seedlings              $ value                       400        400        400         400        400       400         400       400      400        400          400       400         400
   Chemical fertilizer               kg                         500        500        500         500        500       500         500       500      500        500          500       500         500
   Pesticides                     $ value                       490        490        490         490        490       490         490       490      490        490          490       490         490
   Water                          $ value                       200        200        200         200        200       200         200       200      200        200          200       200         200
   Boxes                            unit                        240        300        340         340        340       340         340       340      340        340          340       340         340
   Transport                       truck                         11         14         16          16         16         16        16         16        16         16          16        16          16
Labor
   Planting                      pers.day                          6         6          6           6          6          6          6         6          6         6           6         6           6
   Weeding                       pers.day                        10         10         10          10         10         10        10         10        10         10          10        10          10
   Fertilizing                   pers.day                          5         5          5           5          5          5          5         5          5         5           5         5           5
   Pesticides appl.              pers.day                          3         3          3           3          3          3          3         3          3         3           3         3           3
   Irrigation                    pers.day                          5         5          5           5          5          5          5         5          5         5           5         5           5
   Harvesting                    pers.day                        23         31         34          34         34         34        34         34        34         34          34        34          34
   Loading                       pers.day                          2         3          4           4          4          4          4         4          4         4           4         4           4



   Annual crop production is lower in the first two years after terracing because the soil of the newly terraced land has been disturbed and needs about two years of cultivation and exposure to the sun for
   micro-organisms and other biological factors to develop.



B. Financial Budget (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.            New technology
                                    unit                           1         2          3           4          5          6          7         8          9        10          11        12          13

Revenue                           US$/ha          5100        4000        5200      6000         6000       6000      6000       6000      6000      6000       6000        6000       6000        6000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                US$/ha            165         150        150        150         150        150       150         150       150      150        150          150       150         150
   Seeds & seedlings              US$/ha            440         400        400        400         400        400       400         400       400      400        400          400       400         400
   Chemical fertilizer            US$/ha            440         400        400        400         400        400       400         400       400      400        400          400       400         400
   Pesticides                     US$/ha            539         490        490        490         490        490       490         490       490      490        490          490       490         490
   Water                          US$/ha            220         200        200        200         200        200       200         200       200      200        200          200       200         200
   Boxes                          US$/ha            187         120        150        170         170        170       170         170       170      170        170          170       170         170
   Transport                      US$/ha            352         220        280        320         320        320       320         320       320      320        320          320       320         320
Labor
   Planting                       US$/ha             66          60         60         60          60         60         60        60         60        60         60          60        60          60
   Weeding                        US$/ha            110         100        100        100         100        100       100         100       100      100        100          100       100         100
   Fertilizing                    US$/ha             55          50         50         50          50         50         50        50         50        50         50          50        50          50
   Pesticides appl.               US$/ha             33          30         30         30          30         30         30        30         30        30         30          30        30          30
   Irrigation                     US$/ha             55          50         50         50          50         50         50        50         50        50         50          50        50          50
   Harvesting                     US$/ha            374         230        310        340         340        340       340         340       340      340        340          340       340         340
   Loading                        US$/ha             44          20         30         40          40         40         40        40         40        40         40          40        40          40

Net income                        US$/ha          2020        1480        2500      3200         3200       3200      3200       3200      3200      3200       3200        3200       3200        3200



   farmer investment cost         US$/ha                           0
       (crop establishment and crop husbandry costs during the initial years when net incomes are negative)




                                                                                              - 59 -

C. Economic Values (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.          New technology
                                     unit                       1          2            3           4         5            6         7         8         9           10        11        12          13

Revenue                            US$/ha         5100       4000       5200       6000       6000         6000        6000      6000       6000      6000         6000     6000        6000      6000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                 US$/ha          165        150        150         150       150          150         150       150        150       150          150      150         150       150
   Seeds & seedlings               US$/ha          440        400        400         400       400          400         400       400        400       400          400      400         400       400
   Chemical fertilizer             US$/ha     312.5058        284        284         284       284          284         284       284        284       284          284      284         284       284
   Pesticides                      US$/ha          539        490        490         490       490          490         490       490        490       490          490      490         490       490
   Water                           US$/ha          220        200        200         200       200          200         200       200        200       200          200      200         200       200
   Boxes                           US$/ha          187        120        150         170       170          170         170       170        170       170          170      170         170       170
   Transport                       US$/ha          352        220        280         320       320          320         320       320        320       320          320      320         320       320
Labor
   Planting                        US$/ha           66         60         60          60          60         60           60       60         60        60           60        60        60          60
   Weeding                         US$/ha          110        100        100         100       100          100         100       100        100       100          100      100         100       100
   Fertilizing                     US$/ha           55         50         50          50          50         50           50       50         50        50           50        50        50          50
   Pesticides appl.                US$/ha           33         30         30          30          30         30           30       30         30        30           30        30        30          30
   Irrigation                      US$/ha           55         50         50          50          50         50           50       50         50        50           50        50        50          50
   Harvesting                      US$/ha          374        230        310         340       340          340         340       340        340       340          340      340         340       340
   Loading                         US$/ha           44         20         30          40          40         40           40       40         40        40           40        40        40          40

Net income                         US$/ha     2147.494       1596       2616       3316       3316         3316        3316      3316       3316      3316         3316     3316        3316      3316




"Existing technology" refers to crops already grown in areas alongside the agricultural roads built under the project. In comparison with "New technology" at full development, production costs are higher and
gross revenue is lower by the following percentages:
   production costs                  10%     higher
   gross revenue                    -15%     lower



C. Economic Values (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.          New technology
                                     unit                       1          2            3           4         5            6         7         8         9           10        11        12          13

Revenue                            US$/ha         5100       4000       5200       6000       6000         6000        6000      6000       6000      6000         6000     6000        6000      6000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                 US$/ha          165        150        150         150       150          150         150       150        150       150          150      150         150       150
   Seeds & seedlings               US$/ha          440        400        400         400       400          400         400       400        400       400          400      400         400       400
   Chemical fertilizer             US$/ha     312.5058        284        284         284       284          284         284       284        284       284          284      284         284       284
   Pesticides                      US$/ha          539        490        490         490       490          490         490       490        490       490          490      490         490       490
   Water                           US$/ha          220        200        200         200       200          200         200       200        200       200          200      200         200       200
   Boxes                           US$/ha          187        120        150         170       170          170         170       170        170       170          170      170         170       170
   Transport                       US$/ha          352        220        280         320       320          320         320       320        320       320          320      320         320       320
Labor
   Planting                        US$/ha           66         60         60          60          60         60           60       60         60        60           60        60        60          60
   Weeding                         US$/ha          110        100        100         100       100          100         100       100        100       100          100      100         100       100
   Fertilizing                     US$/ha           55         50         50          50          50         50           50       50         50        50           50        50        50          50
   Pesticides appl.                US$/ha           33         30         30          30          30         30           30       30         30        30           30        30        30          30
   Irrigation                      US$/ha           55         50         50          50          50         50           50       50         50        50           50        50        50          50
   Harvesting                      US$/ha          374        230        310         340       340          340         340       340        340       340          340      340         340       340
   Loading                         US$/ha           44         20         30          40          40         40           40       40         40        40           40        40        40          40

Net income                         US$/ha     2147.494       1596       2616       3316       3316         3316        3316      3316       3316      3316         3316     3316        3316      3316




"Existing technology" refers to crops already grown in areas alongside the agricultural roads built under the project. In comparison with "New technology" at full development, production costs are higher and
gross revenue is lower by the following percentages:
   production costs                  10%     higher
   gross revenue                    -15%     lower




                                                                                           - 60 -

C. Economic Values (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.          New technology
                                     unit                       1          2            3           4         5            6         7         8         9           10        11        12          13

Revenue                            US$/ha        1,127        663        884       1,326      1,326       1,326       1,326     1,326      1,326     1,326        1,326    1,326      1,326       1,326
   plus: straw and bran            US$/ha        212.5        150        200         250       250          250         250       250        250       250          250      250         250        250

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                 US$/ha          165        150        150         150       150          150         150       150        150       150          150      150         150        150
   Seeds & seedlings               US$/ha           66         60         60          60          60         60           60       60         60        60           60        60        60          60
   Chemical fertilizer             US$/ha       125.00        107        107         114       114          114         114       114        114       114          114      114         114        114
   Bags                            US$/ha           22         10         15          20          20         20           20       20         20        20           20        20        20          20
   Threshing                       US$/ha          352        160        220         320       320          320         320       320        320       320          320      320         320        320
   Transport                       US$/ha          110         50         70         100       100          100         100       100        100       100          100      100         100        100
Labor
   Planting                        US$/ha           11         10         10          10          10         10           10       10         10        10           10        10        10          10
   Fertilizing                     US$/ha           22         20         20          20          20         20           20       20         20        20           20        20        20          20
   Cutting                         US$/ha          154        100        120         140       140          140         140       140        140       140          140      140         140        140
   Loading                         US$/ha           22         10         20          20          20         20           20       20         20        20           20        20        20          20

Net income                         US$/ha          291        136        292         622       622          622         622       622        622       622          622      622         622        622




"Existing technology" refers to crops already grown in areas alongside the agricultural roads built under the project. In comparison with "New technology" at full development, production costs are higher and
gross revenue is lower by the following percentages:
   production costs                  10%     higher
   gross revenue                    -15%     lower




                                                                                           - 61 -

Table 10
Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP)
Crop Budget - Wheat



Financial prices and economic values for crop outputs and inputs (2004 prices) are given in Table 4



A. Yields and Inputs (per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.            New technology
                                    unit                           1          2         3           4          5          6          7         8          9        10          11        12          13

Yield                                kg                       3000        4000      6000         6000       6000      6000       6000      6000      6000       6000        6000       6000        6000
   plus: straw and bran              kg                       3000        4000      5000         5000       5000      5000       5000      5000      5000       5000        5000       5000        5000

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                  hour                         10          10        10          10         10         10        10         10        10         10          10        10          10
   Seeds & seedlings                 kg                         150        150        150         150        150       150         150       150      150        150          150       150         150
   Chemical fertilizer               kg                         188        188        200         200        200       200         200       200      200        200          200       200         200
   Bags                             unit                         40          60        80          80         80         80        80         80        80         80          80        80          80
   Threshing                        hour                         10       13.75        20          20         20         20        20         20        20         20          20        20          20
   Transport                       truck                         2.5        3.5         5           5          5          5          5         5          5         5           5         5           5
Labor
   Planting                      pers.day                          1          1         1           1          1          1          1         1          1         1           1         1           1
   Fertilizing                   pers.day                          2          2         2           2          2          2          2         2          2         2           2         2           2
   Cutting                       pers.day                        10          12        14          14         14         14        14         14        14         14          14        14          14
   Loading                       pers.day                          1          2         2           2          2          2          2         2          2         2           2         2           2



   Annual crop production is lower in the first two years after terracing because the soil of the newly terraced land has been disturbed and needs about two years of cultivation and exposure to the sun for
   micro-organisms and other biological factors to develop.



B. Financial Budget (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.            New technology
                                    unit                           1          2         3           4          5          6          7         8          9        10          11        12          13

Revenue                          US$/ha           1530          900       1200      1800         1800       1800      1800       1800      1800      1800       1800        1800       1800        1800
   plus: straw and bran          US$/ha           212.5         150        200        250         250        250       250         250       250      250        250          250       250         250

Inputs
   Tractor plowing               US$/ha             165         150        150        150         150        150       150         150       150      150        150          150       150         150
   Seeds & seedlings             US$/ha              66          60          60        60          60         60         60        60         60        60         60          60        60          60
   Chemical fertilizer           US$/ha             176         150        150        160         160        160       160         160       160      160        160          160       160         160
   Bags                          US$/ha              22          10          15        20          20         20         20        20         20        20         20          20        20          20
   Threshing                     US$/ha             352         160        220        320         320        320       320         320       320      320        320          320       320         320
   Transport                     US$/ha             110          50          70       100         100        100       100         100       100      100        100          100       100         100
Labor
   Planting                      US$/ha              11          10          10        10          10         10         10        10         10        10         10          10        10          10
   Fertilizing                   US$/ha              22          20          20        20          20         20         20        20         20        20         20          20        20          20
   Cutting                       US$/ha             154         100        120        140         140        140       140         140       140      140        140          140       140         140
   Loading                       US$/ha              22          10          20        20          20         20         20        20         20        20         20          20        20          20

Net income                       US$/ha           642.5         330        565      1050         1050       1050      1050       1050      1050      1050       1050        1050       1050        1050



   farmer investment cost        US$/ha                            0
      (crop establishment and crop husbandry costs during the initial years when net incomes are negative)




                                                                                              - 62 -

C. Economic Values (US$ per hectare)

                                             existing
                                             technol.          New technology
                                     unit                       1          2            3           4         5            6         7         8         9           10        11         12         13

Revenue                            US$/ha        1,127        663        884       1,326      1,326       1,326       1,326     1,326      1,326     1,326        1,326    1,326      1,326       1,326
   plus: straw and bran            US$/ha        212.5        150        200         250       250          250         250       250        250       250          250      250         250       250

Inputs
   Tractor plowing                 US$/ha          165        150        150         150       150          150         150       150        150       150          150      150         150       150
   Seeds & seedlings               US$/ha           66         60         60          60          60         60          60        60        60         60           60        60         60         60
   Chemical fertilizer             US$/ha       125.00        107        107         114       114          114         114       114        114       114          114      114         114       114
   Bags                            US$/ha           22         10         15          20          20         20          20        20        20         20           20        20         20         20
   Threshing                       US$/ha          352        160        220         320       320          320         320       320        320       320          320      320         320       320
   Transport                       US$/ha          110         50         70         100       100          100         100       100        100       100          100      100         100       100
Labor
   Planting                        US$/ha           11         10         10          10          10         10          10        10        10         10           10        10         10         10
   Fertilizing                     US$/ha           22         20         20          20          20         20          20        20        20         20           20        20         20         20
   Cutting                         US$/ha          154        100        120         140       140          140         140       140        140       140          140      140         140       140
   Loading                         US$/ha           22         10         20          20          20         20          20        20        20         20           20        20         20         20

Net income                         US$/ha          291        136        292         622       622          622         622       622        622       622          622      622         622       622




"Existing technology" refers to crops already grown in areas alongside the agricultural roads built under the project. In comparison with "New technology" at full development, production costs are higher and
gross revenue is lower by the following percentages:
   production costs                 10%      higher
   gross revenue                    -15%     lower




                                                                                           - 63 -

- 64 -

