Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4092 LE
                          CDR Project Agreement
            (Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project)
                                between
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                                  and
              COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
                       Dated December 5, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4092 LE
                       CDR PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT
AND RECONSTRUCTION (CDR).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Lebanese Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty one million dollars ($31,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that CDR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and CDR, the Borrower will make available as a grant to CDR
an amount equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand dollars
($2,800,000), out of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in said CDR
Subsidiary Agreement; and
     WHEREAS CDR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                              Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
Page  2
meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. CDR declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part
B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) CDR shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, CDR shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               months after the Closing Date or such later date as
               may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
               CDR, a plan for the future operation of Part B of the
               Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with CDR on said plan.
     Section 2.04. CDR shall duly perform all its obligations under
the CDR Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, CDR shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the CDR
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) CDR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of Part B of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
CDR Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
     (b)  CDR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by CDR of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the CDR Subsidiary Agreement.
     Section 2.06. CDR shall establish not later than September 30,
1997, a Project Coordination Committee with staff and resources
acceptable to the Bank, to facilitate the implementation of Part B
of the Project.
     Section 2.07. CDR shall, in September of each year, starting in
1997 and until completion of Part B of the Project, submit to the
Bank for review and comment annual work programs thereunder, and
shall take into account the Bank's comments thereon before imple-
menting them.
                              ARTICLE III
                    Management and Operations of CDR
     Section 3.01. CDR shall carry on its operations and conduct its
Page  3
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. CDR shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) CDR shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
     (b)  CDR shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine (9) months after the end
               of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for such year as so audited and
               (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such
               scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
                                ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of CDR thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify CDR thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
Page  4
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     For CDR:
          Council for Development and
            Reconstruction
          P.O. Box 116-5351
          Beirut
          Lebanese Republic
          Cable address:                Telex:
               CDR, Tallet El-Seray     42490
               Beirut, Lebanon
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of CDR, or by CDR on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the President of CDR or such
other person or persons as the President of CDR shall designate in
writing, and CDR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Beirut, Lebanon, as of the day and year first
above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Inder Sud
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Middle East and North Africa
               COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
               By /s/ Nabil El Jisr
                                               Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
Page  5
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be pro-
cured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
5.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $50,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more and goods estimated to cost the
Page  6
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
