Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4092 LE
                           GP Project Agreement
            (Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project)
                                 between
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                                GREEN PLAN
                           Dated December 5, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4092 LE
                           GP PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the Green Plan (GP).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Lebanese Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty one million dollars ($31,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that GP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and GP, the Borrower will make available as a grant to GP an
amount equivalent to twenty eight million two hundred thousand dollars
($28,200,000) out of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS GP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
Page  2
meanings therein set forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) GP declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part A of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and GP shall otherwise agree, GP
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) GP shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part A of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, GP shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               months after the Closing Date or such later date as
               may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
               GP, a plan for the future operation of Part A of the
               Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with GP on said plan.
     Section 2.04. GP shall duly perform all its obligations under the
GP Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, GP
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the GP Subsidiary Agreement
or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) GP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of Part A of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
GP Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Loan.
     (b)  GP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by GP of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the GP Subsidiary Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                      Management and Operations of GP
     Section 3.01. GP shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. GP shall take out and maintain with responsible
Page  3
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) GP shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
     (b)  GP shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine (9) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as
               well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
                                ARTICLE V
                      Effective Date; Termination;
                      Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of GP thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify GP thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  4
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     For Green Plan:
          Ramla Baidha
          Beirut,
          Lebanese Republic
                                   Fax:
                                   961-1-867-456
                                   961-1-301-700
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of GP, may be taken or executed by the President of the
Executive Committee of GP or such other person or persons as the
President shall designate in writing, and GP shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Beirut, Lebanon, as of the day and year first
above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/  Inder Sud
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
               GREEN PLAN
               By /s/ Samir Abou Jaoudih
                                               Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE 1
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
Page  5
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 5 of Part C of this
Section, all works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent aggregate,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which should be procured under an extension of an existing
contract or are of a proprietary nature and costing $50,000 equivalent
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.
5.   Community Participation
     Works for land terracing, the construction of hill ponds and small
concrete basins up to a total aggregate amount not exceeding $1,200,000,
as well as seedlings and irrigation equipment may be procured by
beneficiaries under GP's supervision and cost sharing arrangements,
using GP established unit rates, and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  6
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, for mechanized works for land and
water development estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, and
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such con-
tracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assign-
ments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                        Implementation Program
A.   Implementation Procedures
1.   For the implementation of Part A of the Project, GP shall maintain
its current operational procedures, including the requirements for
receipt of requests for financial assistance from farmers to implement
Sub-projects, appraisal of proposed Sub-projects, the conduct of
feasibility and design studies in the case of agricultural roads,
entering into cost-sharing arrangements with farmers through payment
of cash or donation of land by farmers, the hiring and payment of
contractors by GP to implement proposed Sub-projects as well as
allowing farmers to initiate some works themselves.
2.   Changes to the procedures referred to in Paragraph 1 above which
would affect the implementation of the Project, shall be made only
with the prior agreement of the Bank.
3.   Under Part A (1) of the Project and in each case the GP resources
assigned for a particular locality are insufficient to satisfy all the
assistance requests from that locality, GP shall work with local
committees in identifying the poor and targeting assistance to them.
B.   Criteria for Sub-projects under Part A (1) of the Project
     GP shall implement Part A (1) of the Project pursuant to the
Page  7
following criteria:
1.   Land terracing shall not be included in Sub-projects in areas
where the slope is 40% or more and rockiness exceeds 60% of soil
cover.
2.   Beneficiaries shall undertake to complete remaining investments
in Sub-projects not later than two years after completion of works.
3.   Sub-projects shall not include: (a) land intended for urbanization
or industrial development; and (b) national forests, protected bio-
diversity areas, and areas within 500 meters thereof.
4.   Sub-projects shall have an internal rate of return of at least
12 percent, the internal rate of return being the discount rate used
to discount future benefits and costs which makes the present value
of benefits equal to the present value of costs.
C.   Cost-Sharing Arrangements
     GP undertakes to implement the cost-sharing arrangements referred
to in Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement with beneficiaries of Part A
(1) of the Project.
D.   Criteria for Sub-projects under Part A (2) of the Project
     GP shall implement Part A (2) of the Project pursuant to the
following criteria:
1.   Sub-projects comprising agricultural roads shall be approved only
where the land required for road construction has been provided
voluntarily and without compensation by beneficiaries of Sub-projects.
2.   Road studies shall include an environmental assessment and road
design shall take into account, inter alia, the mitigation measures
recommended therein.
3.   Sub-projects shall have an internal rate of return, as defined in
paragraph B (4) of this schedule, of at least 12 percent.
E.   EIMC
     GP shall maintain the EIMC with staff and resources acceptable to
the Bank, to carry out environmental reviews, execute mitigatory
measures, and monitor progress under Part A of the Project.
F.   Semi-Annual Progress Reports
     Without limitation to its obligation under Section 9.07. of the
General Conditions, GP shall submit to the Bank for comment and review
component-specific semi-annual progress reports in March and September
of each year until completion of the Project, and shall take the Bank's
comments thereon.
G.   Annual Work Programs
1.   GP shall, in September of each year, starting in 1997 and until
completion of Part A of the Project, submit to the Bank for review
and comments annual work programs under Part A (1) of the Project,
and shall take into account the Bank's comments thereon.
2.   GP shall, in March of each year, starting in 1998 and until the
completion of Part A of the Project, submit to the Bank for review
and comments annual work programs under Part A (2) of the Project,
and shall take into account the Bank's comments thereon.
H    Coordination
     GP shall coordinate and consult with the relevant Ministries of
the Borrower and local non-governmental organizations to insure the
efficient implementation of Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project.
Page  8
