Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4092 LE
                               Loan Agreement
              (Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project)
                                  between
                             LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated December 5, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4092 LE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1996, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Green Plan
(GP) and Part B will be carried out by the Council for Development and
Reconstruction (CDR), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to GP and CDR the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements
of even date herewith between the Bank and GP and CDR respectively;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is pro-
          hibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
          taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ACSC" means the Agricultural Census Steering Committee
within MOA, established pursuant to Resolution 258/1, dated June 7,
1996, to be responsible for reviewing and supervising the national
agricultural census to be carried out under Part B. 1 of the Project.
     (b)  "BdL" means Banque du Liban, the Borrower's central bank,
established and operating pursuant to the Money and Credit Law
promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower, dated August 1,
1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "CDR" means the Council for Development and Reconstruction,
a public authority established and operating pursuant to Legislative
Decree No. 5 of the Borrower, dated January 31, 1977, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
     (d)  "CDR's Legislation" means Decree No. 5 of the Borrower,
dated January 31, 1977, Decree No. 433 of the Borrower, dated
September 19, 1977, and Decree No. 2981 of the Borrower, dated May
9, 1980, as such decrees may be amended from time to time;
     (e)  "CDR Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CDR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (f)  "GP Special Account " and "CDR Special Account " mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. GP
Special Account and CDR Special Account are, collectively, referred
to as "Special Accounts";
     (g)  "CDR Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (h)  "EIMC" means the Environmental Information and Monitoring
Committee established by GP's Executive Board pursuant to Resolution
No. 83, dated June 7, 1996, to oversee environmental practices
pertaining to GP Activities;
     (i)  "GP" means the Green Plan, a public authority established
and operating under the administrative supervision of the Minister
Page  3
of Agriculture pursuant to Decree No. 13785 of the Borrower, dated
September of 1963, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (j)  "GP Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and GP of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
     (k)  "GP Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and GP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (l)  "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower; and
     (m)  "Sub-project" means a specific development activity under
Part A (1) and (2) of the Project, to be financed by GP in accordance
with Schedule 2 of the GP Project Agreement.
                                  ARTICLE II
                                   The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of thirty one million dollars ($31,000,000), being the sum of with-
drawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (GP Special Account
and CDR Special Account) in BdL, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
               date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
Page  4
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
               bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
               provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
          of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at
          a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
          plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
          Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
          outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
          at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
          year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) GP is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part A of the Project for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions with respect to Part A of the Project.
     (b)  CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower in
respect of Part B of the Project for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with respect to Part B of the Project.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause
GP and CDR to perform in accordance with the provisions of its
respective Project Agreement all the obligations of GP and CDR
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable GP and CDR to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make available as a grant an amount
equivalent to twenty eight million two hundred thousand dollars
Page  5
($28,200,000), or such other amount as may be allocated in the
table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
to GP under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and GP under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make available as a grant an amount
equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand dollars
($2,800,000), or such other amount as may be allocated in the table
set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to CDR
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and CDR under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the GP
Subsidiary Agreement and the CDR Subsidiary Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Bank. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the GP Project
Agreement and the Schedule to the CDR Project Agreement respectively.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Part A of
the Project shall be carried out by GP pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the GP Project Agreement; and (b) Part B of the Project shall be
carried out by CDR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the CDR Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes to maintain current cost-
sharing arrangements established pursuant to Presidential Decree No.
7426, dated October 24, 1995, and any changes thereto shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the roads constructed
under Part A (2) of the Project are maintained in a good condition.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain the ACSC with staff and
resources acceptable to the Bank to facilitate the implementation of
Part B (1) of the Project.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1999, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by March 31, 2000, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
                              ARTICLE IV
Page  6
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with
              sound accounting practices, records and accounts
              reflecting such expenditures;
        (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures are retained until at least one year
              after the Bank has received the audit report for the
              fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
              Loan Account was made; and
       (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
              records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
               Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than nine (9) months after the end of
               each such year the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related with-
               drawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
               the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Either GP or CDR shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the GP Project Agreement or the CDR Project
Agreement, respectively.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that GP or CDR will be able to
perform its obligations under the GP Project Agreement or the CDR
Project Agreement respectively.
     (c)  Either the GP Decree or the CDR Legislation shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of GP or CDR to perform any of
its obligations under the GP Project Agreement or the CDR Project
Agreement respectively.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of GP or
CDR or for the suspension of their respective operations.
Page  7
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                              ARTICLE VI
                     Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the GP Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and GP; and
     (b)  the CDR Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and CDR.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the GP Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by GP, and is legally binding upon GP in accordance with
its terms;
     (b)  that the CDR Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CDR, and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance with
its terms;
     (c)  that the GP Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and GP and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and GP in accordance with its terms; and
     (d)  that the CDR Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and CDR and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and CDR in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 and 2.09 of this
Agreement the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Beirut
          Lebanese Republic
                                   Telex:
                                   923.235.13
Page  8
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Beirut, Lebanon, as of the day and year first
above written.
               LEBANESE REPUBLIC
               By /s/ Nabil El Jisr
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Inder Sud
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  under Part A (1)    9,500,000           80%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part A (2)   10,000,000           80%
          of the Project
     (c)  under Part B          350,000           80%
          of the Project
(2)  Goods:
     (a)  under Part A        5,000,000           80%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part B          700,000           80%
          of the Project
(3)  Consultants' services,
Page  9
     training and studies:
     (a)  under Part A        3,000,000           100%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part B        1,750,000           100%
          of the Project
(4)  Unallocated                700,000
                             __________
          TOTAL              31,000,000
                             ==========
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
3.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent for goods, $100,000
equivalent for works, $50,000 equivalent for mechanized works for
land and water development under Part A (1) of the Project, $100,000
equivalent for services with consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent
for services with individual consultants (including training and
studies), under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i)
developing and conserving land and water resources; (ii) increasing
access to isolated rural areas; and (iii) strengthening the institu-
tional capacity in the agricultural sector.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Development of Agricultural Infrastructure
1.   Land and Water Development
     (a)  Terracing of land, construction of terrace retaining walls,
hill ponds, and concrete basins; and
     (b)  acquisition and sale of: (i) fruit tree seedlings; and (ii)
irrigation equipment.
2.   Agricultural Roads
     (a)  Construction of asphalted and earth roads; and
     (b)  assistance in road design and preparation of feasibility
studies through the provision of consultants' services.
3.   Institutional Strengthening
     (a)  Improving the implementation capacity of the GP through
training and operational support, including the provision of equipment
and vehicles, training and consultants' services; and
     (b)  assistance to the Environmental Information and Monitoring
Committee, including the provision of specialized equipment, vehicles
and consultants' services.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening of MOA
     Providing assistance, through CDR, to MOA comprising:
Page  10
1.   conducting a National Agricultural Census and the establishment
of a permanent agricultural statistical system, including the pro-
vision of equipment and vehicles, training and consultants' services;
and
2.   the construction or rehabilitation of a documentation center and
the establishment of an information management system in MOA,
including the provision of equipment and vehicles, training and
consultants' services.
                              *  *  *  *  *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15                1,290,000
          beginning May 15, 2002
          through May 15, 2013
On November 15, 2013                          1,330,000
                        Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed
                               as a percentage per annum)
                               applicable to the Loan on the
                               day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                  0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                    0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                  1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (a) and (b),
2 (a), and 3 (a), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement in the case of GP Special Account;
     (b)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (c), 2 (b),
and 3 (b), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Page  11
Agreement in the case of CDR Special Account;
     (c)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (d)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in the case of GP
Special Account an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited
to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $4,000,000; and (ii) in the case of CDR Special
Account an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to $200,000, until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all out-
standing special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocations,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of such Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Accounts at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the respective Special Account such amount as
               the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence to
               have been paid out of the respective Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
Page  12
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Accounts:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Accounts;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for Part A of the Project, minus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Part A of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation; or
     (e)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories for Part B of the Project, minus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments with respect to Part B
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for
Parts A and B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Page  13
Conditions.
