FILE        COPY                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1918-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR THE
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 1, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            -         K 0.78
K 1                      US$1.27
K 1,000,000     =         US$1,270,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)   -        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) -        0.62 miles
1 metric ton     -        2,206 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONS
CDC      -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
DPI      -   Department of Primary Industry
DTWS     -   Department of Transport Works and Supply
YYB      -   Fresh Fruit Bunch
OPC      -   Office of Project Coordination
PMC      -   Project Management Committee
PNG      -   Papua New Guinea
PNGDB    -   Papua New Guinea Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA FOR A
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Papua New Guinea for the equivalent of US$12.0 million, to be
repaid in 20 years including a grace period of 4-1/2 years, to help finance
a fourth agricultural development project. From the proceeds of this loan
US$4.02 million to help finance smallholder development costs would be
onlent to the Papua New Guinea Development Bank; this loan would be at
9 percent for 16 years, including a grace period of 7 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Papua New Guinea in January/February
1976. Its report "Papua New Guinea: Economic Situation and Development
Prospects" (Report No. 1150-PNG) was distributed to the Executive Directors
in July 1976. The following discussion of recent political and economic
developments and an assessment of future prospects are based on this
report. Country data for Papua New Guinea are included in Annex I.
3.        Papua New Guinea achieved internal self-government on December 1,
1973, and independence from Australia on September 16, 1975. The first
event, accompanied by pressure for replacement of Australians in Government
and business by Papua New Guineans (localization), led to an accelerated
departure of expatriates. Realizing the dangers in this situation, the
Government sought to hire key staff directly and began to recruit a number
of expatriates from countries other than Australia. Today, localization is
proceeding as rapidly as possible consistent with the maintenance of stan-
dards for government services. On the political front, the most serious
difficulty was a secessionist movement in Bougainville; however, the
traditional Melanesian reliance on negotiation and conciliation, rather
than confrontation, has led to a satisfactory arrangement which will
keep Bougainville and the earnings from its copper mine in PNG.
4.        PNG's economy has two major elements - a large indigenous sub-
sistence sector based on traditional agriculture and a rapidly expanding
modern "market" sector, accounting for over 70 percent of output and income,
but a minority of the population, with emphasis on mining, export-oriented
plantation agriculture, government operations, and services. Real GDP grew
at more than 8 percent per annum during the period 1967/68 to 1973/74. This
growth was led by the market sector, growing at over 10 percent per annum,
Tbb document ha a resificed distibutmn anday be ued by ecipientg only in the pefonnxce
of their official datls. [is contents _ my not otherwia be discoed without World Bank authorintion.



- 2 -
while the nonmarket sector grew at less than 1 percent per annum. As a
result, the share in GNP of the traditional subsistence sector, from which
the majority of the local population still derives the main part of its
living, fell from about two-thirds to less than 40 percent. The growth
rate of population is at present about 3 percent per annum, a sharp
increase over the 2 percent per annum rate of ten years ago, due mainly to
a halving of the infant/child mortality rate. Per capita GNP in 1975 was
US$450 but this average includes the high income expatriate sector; the
per capita GNP of the local population, representing 98 percent of the
total population, is about US$320; probably 50 percent of the local
population - mainly those in the subsistence sector - have per capita
incomes of about US$130 or less.
5.        The Bougainville copper mine has played an important role in the
country's recent economic achievements. Mining's share in GDP rose from
2 percent in 1968/69 to 32 percent in 1973/74. The impact of Bougainville
on national investment was also large, and during the construction phase,
it accounted for nearly 60 percent of all fixed capital formation in the
country. The impact on exports was first felt in 1971/72, and in the next
two years this one copper mine doubled PNG's export earnings; the growth
of exports from Bougainville has accounted for the bulk of incremental GDP
in the last few years.
6.        Real expenditures by the Government increased at a rate of
close to 7 percent per annum during the past five years. This rise was
mainly caused by a substantial increase in current outlays, dominated by
wages and salaries (45-50 percent of total current expenditures) and the
purchase of goods and services (35-40 percent). Government employment of
staff almost doubled from 1971 to 1975, and simultaneously there were
substantial increases in wage and salary levels. The Government realizes
the great importance of restraining both employment and salary increases,
and has recently taken steps to ensure such restraint.
7.        PNG benefits greatly from Australian assistance, both finan-
cial and technical, although the relative importance of this assistance
is declining. Australian grants provide 43 percent of the 1975/76 budget,
a drop from the 70 percent provided in 1963. The commencement of copper
production on Bougainville in 1972 expanded domestic revenues by about
one-third and thus contributed to self-reliance. Under the terms of the
most recent agreement, Australia's aid program for PNG will amount to
approximately A$1 billion (US$1.27 billion) over the next five years.
8.        Expatriates, largely Australians, accounted for about 14 percent
of the Government staff as of July 1, 1975, compared to 20 percent in 1971.
Slightly under half of the expatriates are paid directly by the Australian
Government, which will continue to cover their salaries as part of its
aid package for the next two years. Many other senior administrative and
professional and higher technical posts are also filled by expatriates.
Consequently, there is a pressing need for local people with comparable
professional skills.



-3-
9.        The long run goal of self-reliance has tempered the Government's
approach to foreign investment, which it hopes to attract on a selective
and controlled basis. The National Investment and Development Authority
(NIDA) registers and licenses all foreign enterprises in PNG and coordinates
Government policy. Foreign investment will be sought in those activities
which are desirable for their ability to produce revenue and foreign exchange
and for which the necessary capital or expertise is not available in PNG, but
the investors must agree to meet terms and conditions which assure increasing
local participation.
10.       In the long run, no sector of the economy will have nearly as
large an impact on the pace, directions, and quality of development as the
Central Government. It is by far the largest employer, the largest source
of investment activity, and the largest mobilizer and provider of capital.
Its most crucial task is to set goals, to devise policies and programs, and
to mobilize the resources needed to achieve these goals. PNG has not had a
development plan since the First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-73) and
the Interim Plan for 1973/74, but the philosophy of the present Government
is expressed in the "Eight Aims", which, in addition to growth, stress
equitable distribution of income, increased control of the economy by
Papua New Guineans and decentralization of economic activity. These
objectives reflect a shift of emphasis from the First Five-Year Plan,
which concentrated on the build-up of infrastructure and the development
of the modern sector of the economy. However, this new strategy has not
yet been translated into quantitative terms, except in a few sectors, and
no attempt has yet been made to develop a national set of sectoral prior-
ities. The Central Planning Office is preparing a new development plan
which will incorporate the Eight Aims into a coordinated national framework.
11.       The PNG economy imports a large share of its capital and consumer
goods, including food requirements. Until 1972, the balance of payments
traditionally showed a negative trade balance, with exports dominated by a
few agricultural commodities whose total value covered only about half the
annual imports; the other half was covered by the Australian budget grant.
In April 1972, the Bougainville copper mine came into production. The
1970/71 level of agricultural exports of about US$85 million was suddenly
dwarfed by copper exports of US$206 million in 1971/72, and PNG's tradi-
tionally negative trade balance became positive. However in 1974, copper
prices fell sharply, and copper's contribution to the country's exports
dropped from 70 percent to about 50 percent. Bougainville's impact has
not been large enough to create a favorable balance on the combined goods
and services account (except in 1973/74) and PNG still relies on the
Australian grant to balance its external accounts.
12.       Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1975,
amounted to US$310.8 million, of which US$81.5 million (including US$1.9
million exchange adjustment) was owed to the Bank Group. Public debt
service payments in 1974-75 were about 3 percent of exports of goods and
nonfactor services. Debt payments to the Bank Group were only about 13
percent of total debt service payments. Debt service is expected to rise
to about 4 percent of exports in the early 1980s. In addition, there are;



-4-
considerable dividend and interest payments abroad, mainly as a result of
the Bougainville copper mine. PNG is considered creditworthy for a limited
amount of Bank loans.
13.       In addition to Australia, other bilateral sources (viz. Japan and
New Zealand) are also expected to make aid funds available. The Asian
Development Bank has lent to PNG from its Special Fund and is expected to
continue lending to PNG in the future.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea thus far has consisted
of five loans (US$55.5 million) and five development credits (US$25.2
million), which together have helped to finance nine projects. This
assistance has focused largely on infrastructure development - 86 percent
of total Bank Group assistance has been for power, telecommunications,
highways and ports. Agricultural projects - mainly oil palm and livestock
- have absorbed the remaining 14 percent. IFC has not been involved in
PNG.
15.       Project implementation has been satisfactory, although in some
cases disbursements have been slow because of cumbersome administrative
procedures requiring multiple clearances for preparing withdrawal appli-
cations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits as of August 31, 1976, and notes on the execution of on-going
projects.
16.       In view of the extreme paucity of infrastructure in PNG in
previous years, the past emphasis of Bank Group assistance was deemed
appropriate as a necessary foundation for future economic development.
However, during the next few years the Bank Group intends to adopt a some-
what different sectoral strategy. Infrastructure projects would continue
to be assisted, but to a lesser extent, and would represent about half of
the proposed lending program. An increasing amount of Bank Group financing
would be directed towards assisting agricultural and rural development.
These projects would aim at increasing agricultural production, improving
indigenous cash cropping methods, and raising subsistence living standards.
Many projects would include components of social and economic infrastruc-
ture, such as education, health and roads.
17.       While the manpower constraint which confronts PNG has been
relieved temporarily by the Government's aggressive recruitment of expatri-
ates, skilled PNG technical and administrative personnel are scarce rela-
tive to the need. Consequently, the technical advice and support which
Bank staff provide through project preparation and supervision of on-going
projects will be especially important. Also, the Bank stands ready to
advise, when asked, on the costs and benefits of major resource exploita-
tion projects, which may compete for resources with projects aimed directly
at improving the welfare of the subsistence sector.



18.       Australia will be PNG's most important aid source for the coming
years. The Bank Group will continue to cooperate with the Australian Govern-
ment, and will be prepared to consider co-financing of some projects should
the Australian and PNG Governments express interest in such arrangements.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       For the majority of PNG's population, agriculture is the most
important sector. Some 90 percent of the population is at least partly
dependent on agriculture which, aside from the enclave Bougainville copper
mine, is PNG's only source of foreign exchange earnings.   Of its 47.5
million ha of land area, about one-third is suitable for agriculture.
However, only about half of the available area is put to agricultural use.
Thus, there is considerable opportunity for agricultural expansion.
20.       The bulk of the population is still engaged in subsistence
agriculture. For these people, kao-kao (a sweet potato) is the principal
crop and pig rearing is also widespread. Commercial agriculture consists
of a rapidly expanding subsector producing fruits, vegetables, meat and
eggs for the growing urban population; and an export oriented subsector
growing plantation crops. Of these latter, copra and coconut oil, coffee
and cocoa are the most important, comprising some 90 percent of the subsector,
with rubber, tea, and, recently, palm oil assuming an increasing share.
21.       In 1974, agricultural exports were valued at about US$160 million
(K 126 million). In order to minimize the impact on the economy of fluct-
uating copper prices, Government agricultural policy places significant
emphasis on increasing agricultural exports.
Land Tenure
22.       A serious impediment to further agricultural development is
the "native land" system. About 97 percent of all land in PNG is held
under this system of communally-owned tribal tenure. As a result of the
difficulties in establishing ownership and usage rights over economically-
sized parcels, cash cropping is not widespread and frequently is done only
on a small scale. The most successful commercial agricutural development
by smallholders has been undertaken on Government-owned land, leased to
smallholders on a long-term (99 years) basis. Government is presently
formulating policy on land tenure, which is intended to minimize these
difficulties.
Agricultural Development Policy
23.       As in other sectors, the Government has only an indicative plan
for the agricultural sector which must be translated into quantitative
terms. Broadly stated, this policy is to utilize the agricultural sector
as a vehicle to minimize income disparities between urban and rural areas.



- 6 -
Moreover, the Government wishes td substitute imported foods with domestic
production as quickly and as economically as possible. Two alternative
types of development appear feasible. While they are certainly not mutually
exclusive, they are radically different in concept and will demand careful
decisions by Government policymakers.
24.       The first alternative, in situ rural development, is by far the
more difficult, but if successful would have a greater impact on a larger
proportion of the population. This strategy calls for expanding village
output and improving subsistence living standards through well designed
integrated rural development projects. Government is anxious to initiate
such projects. However, the conception and preparation of such projects
must overcome serious sociological impediments. Village farmers, individ-
ually and in groups, frequently lack sustained economic motiviation,
stemming at least partly from the traditional pattern of communal land
ownership under which an individual cannot expand his holdings without
unanimous consent from his clan. In recognition of these traditional mores,
Government has prepared a modest development plan for the Southern Highlands,
incorporating a communal approach. The first component of this plan, a beef
ranch, is already underway, but it is still too early to evaluate its
success.
25.       In the meantime, the Government, faced with more immediate
requirements for economic growth and additional foreign exchange sources,
is not neglecting its second alternative - smallholder settler developments
on Government land. This type of project has already met with noteworthy
success in PNG. Cash cropping of coffee, cocoa, rubber, tea, copra and,
more recently of oil palm, have all been established on such schemes.
Government is particularly anxious to exploit this potential as quickly as
possible since, in addition to providing the settler family with improved
living standards and access to social amenities, this type of project
can significantly increase foreign exchange earnings. Among these com-
modities, oil palm has perhaps the greatest potential for rapid expansion.
There are considerable areas of fertile, unused and virtually unpopulated
lands in the coastal mainland and the islands, which are ideally suited to
oil palm cultivation.
Oil Palm Development
26.       PNG experience to date has shown that the country has a comparative
advantage for oil palm production. Because of the favorable combination of
climate and soil type, oil palm trees consistently come into production a
year to 1-1/2 years earlier and yield up to 20 percent more than the same
varieties grown in other parts of the world. With IDA assistance (Credits
175-PNG and 348-PNG) the Government has developed a highly successful
strategy in the Hoskins oil palm project, which introduced oil palm cultiva-
tion in PNG.
27.       The Hoskins Project on the island of New Britain includes a
4,000 ha nucleus estate jointly owned by Government and an experienced
foreign company; a 6,000 ha smallholder sector and a central factory,
also jointly owned by Government and a foreign investor, to process both



smallholder and estate output. Field performance of this project has been
excellent; in fact, the principal implementation problem was earlier and
higher yields than ancitipated which were beyond the processing capacity
of the factory at that time. Present factory capacity, however, is now
expanded and able to accommodate all production. Smallholders now number
some 1,750. A substantial number of these have already been able to repay
their initial loans to PNGDB considerably ahead of schedule. In addition
to the direct benefits, the Hoskins project has had important linkages to
development of the area. The township of Kimbe has seen rapid growth of
its population as a result of employment opportunities in developing
ancillary industries, particularly banking and shipping.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       Popondetta, the administrative center of the Northern District,
is located in the Papuan region of mainland Papua New Guinea. Its popu-
lation of 36,000 is now mainly engaged in subsistence agriculture. Pre-
viously, Popondetta was also the site of widespread land settlement schemes
based on cocoa plantings. While these thrived initially, in 1968 the crops
were attacked by insects. Following this devastation, most of the expatri-
ates involved in the scheme left, and the villagers have not been able
to rehabilitate the ruined areas.
29.       The proposed project would convert these wasted cocoa areas,
together with presently forested land - some 5,600 ha in all - to oil
palm smallholdings. Oil palm is not susceptible to the disease and pests
which destroyed the cocoa plantings. Some 1,400 smallholder farms would
be established. A concurrent development would be the establishment of a
4,000 ha nucleus estate and a palm oil mill to serve both the smallholders
and the estate. The nucleus estate and factory would be financed jointly
by the Government and the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). In
addition to the on-farm development, the project would also provide suit-
able social and economic infrastructure to smallholders.
30.       The project, together with. a similar scheme at Bialla, was first
appraised in March 1974. It was envisaged that the two schemes would
combine to form one project. However, there were serious delays in the
Government's negotiations with its joint venture partner in the Bialla
scheme and in CDC's appraisal of the Popondetta project, which in turn
hampered the Bank's appraisal of the smallholder components. The Bialla
project was finally dropped from the Bank's project and a final mission
visited PNG in February 1976. Loan negotiations were held in Washington in
September 1976. PNG's delegation was led by Ken Woodward, Assistant
Secretary for Finance. Representatives from CDC also attended the nego-
tiations as observers. A Loan and Project Summary is included in Annex
III. The Appraisal Report, dated September 23, 1976, Report No. 1160-PNG,
has been circulated separately.



-8-
Project Description
31.       The proposed project would benefit some 1,400 smallholders,
including 600 new settlers, 200 existing settlers and 600 village families.
New settlers would be given 6 ha plots, 4 ha of which would be planted
immediately in oil palm thus providing a reserve plot for eventual expansion
of oil palm or diversification into other cash crops as conditions warrant.
The remaining smallholders would plant 4 ha plots in oil palm. Additional
land would be made available as necessary for each family to have a food
garden for home consumption. All the smallholders would be furnished with
long-term credit facilities for on-farm development to be channeled through
the Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB), and with agricultural
extension and visiting inspection services to be provided by the Department
of Primary Industry (DPI). A Government company would be established to
transport smallholder fresh fruit bunches (FFB) to the mill,to disburse FFB
payments to smallholders and to maintain smallholders' individual financial
accounts. The smallholder area would be provided with necessary infra-
structure, including feeder roads and health, education and welfare services.
Finally, the project would include a technical assistance component which
would provide funds to recruit key expatriate personnel to assist the
smallholder project, and provisions for improving training programs for
field officers of PNGDB and DPI in smallholder credit operations.
32.       The proposed project has been based on the highly successful
smallholder oil palm settlement scheme at Hoskins (described in paragraph
29 above), a scheme that clearly demonstrated the suitability of coastal
PNG for oil palm cultivation. In the Hoskins experience, even settlers
with no experience in tree crop agriculture have, with extension assistance,
been able to meet the technical and managerial requirements to ensure the
project's success. The proposed project at Popondetta recognizes that
financial viability for individual lots is imperative, since without
sufficient incentive, the required inputs of family labor may not be
forthcoming. Plots of 4 ha should prove adequate, taking into account
fluctuations in yields and prices. As a result of the proposed project,
family (that is, the immediate rather than the extended family) incomes
would rise from the estimated annual subsistence level of US$655 to about
US$1,900 at peak production, after loans are fully repaid. Project revenues
would enable the full recovery of direct on-farm development costs to the
smallholders. Settler selection would be on a nationwide basis with some
preference given to the Northern district in which the project would be
located. Selection criteria would include marital status, age, health,
education, language ability, experience in tree-crop agriculture, land-
lessness and vocational experience. A successful applicant would be
given one month from the date of notification to take up his block. If he
failed to do so within this period, another applicant would be chosen.
Settlers would be given long-term leasehold titles to their blocks on
occupancy and would not be entitled to sell without permission from the
Department of Natural Resources.



- 9 -
33.       A concurrent development, not included in the Bank project but
crucial to its success, is the establishment of a 4,000 ha nucleus estate
and centralized milling facilities to process both smallholder and estate
output. Milling facilities must be on-stream in time to process the first
harvest of fruit (both estate and smallholdings) expected in the mid-1980s
and milling efficiency must ensure maximum yield of oil and kernel. The
factory would purchase smallholders' FFB using an agreed price formula; the
Bank would be consulted prior to making any changes in this formula. (See
draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05.) Under its agreement with the Govern-
ment, CDC, which has considerable experience in this field, would be
responsible for mill design, construction and management. The CDC Board
has approved in principle financing for this project. Draft versions of
CDC's legal documents covering the establishment of the nucleus estate/
factory complex were reviewed during negotiations, and they are expected
to be signed within the coming weeks. The final execution of the CDC
agreement is a condition of effectiveness. (See draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01 (a).)
34.       The planting program would commence in 1977 and, because of a
staggered planting programs for existing villagers, would not be completed
until 1982. Smallholders would purchase suitable planting material from
the nucleus estate company. (See draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (b).)
During this time, road improvement works and the construction of standard
low-cost housing to accommodate new settlers would be underway. An integral
part of the development program is the provision of social amenities to
settlers. Thus the project would upgrade and expand to usual Government
standards local community centers, schools, markets, trade stores, police
posts and health facilities. The benefits from these improved facilities
would be made available to villagers in the vicinity of the project but who
would not directly participate in the project itself. Thus the project
would have an important impact on the community as a whole and not just on
the settlers alone.
35.       In addition to providing extension and visiting inspection ser-
vices specifically for oil palm development, additional extension staff
would be available to assist the smallholders with their own food gardens.
Government has undertaken to provide adequate extension staff as and when
required. (See draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a).) Although not
included in the Bank project, an important item will be the development of
a research program aimed specifically at the problems of oil palm cultiva-
tion in Popondetta. This research will be carried out by the nucleus estate
for the benefit of both the estate and the smallholders. (See draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03(c).)
36.       The efficient transportation of the smallholders' FFB to the
factory is essential for high quality oil production and optimum returns to
smallholders. Thus the project would establish a separate Government-owned
transport company. In addition to pick up and delivery of FFB, this
company would also disburse FFB payments to settlers and maintain financial
accounts for individual settlers. The transport company would be established
prior to the first harvest on a basis satisfactory to the Bank. (See draft
Loan Agreement, Sections 3.04(a) and (b).)



- 10 -
Project Costs
37.       Total project costs are estimated at US$18.51 million (excluding
the labor contribution of settlers) with a foreign exchange component of
US$11.22 million or 61 percent. Within this total, smallholder development
costs account for some 20 percent and extension and social services some
15 percent, roads 12 percent, the smallholder transport company some 6 per-
cent, vehicle and equipment 7 percent, and technical assistance some 4 per-
cent, the remainder being allocated to physical and price contingencies.
Cost estimates were based on prices prevailing in February 1976. Physical
contingencies represent 5 percent of all base costs except roads for which
20 percent was added to base costs. This latter figure is somewhat high in
comparison, to other countries, but is thought necessary based on experience
in constructing of similar roads in PNG. Price increases for equipment are
estimated at 9 percent in 1976, gradually declining to 7 percent by 1980,
at which level they stabilize. Inflation for civil works (including both
foreign and local costs) is estimated at 13 percent in 1976, declining to
10 percent by 1980 and remaining at that level thereafter. Local cost
increases (excluding civil works) are assumed at 9 percent annually.
Financing
38.       The proposed Bank loan of US$12.0 million would finance some
65 percent of total project costs, including the entire foreign exchange
component plus US$0.7 million in local cost financing for agricultural
extension staff. Government and PNGDB would contribute the remaining
financing on a ratio of about 3 to 1.
39.       The loan would be made to the Government to be repaid in 20 years
including 4-1/2 years grace period. Funds for smallholder development
(US$4.02 million) would be on-lent to PNGDB at 9 percent interest per annum,
to be repaid within 16 years (including a 7-year grace period), under the
terms of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank. (See draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c).) The conclusion of this Agreement is a
condition of effectiveness. (See draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (b).)
PNGDB's contribution to project financing (US$1.76 million) would represent
the local cost component of smallholder development.
40.       PNGDB loans to existing settlers and villagers would be for
9 years at 11 percent and to new settlers for 13 years at 11 percent, in
both instances including a four-year grace period. (See draft Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 4.) These terms and conditions would not be altered without
prior consultation with the Bank. (See draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.01 (c).)
41.       PNGDB's resources should be adequate to meet the project's
requirements; nevertheless, assurances were obtined that should it become
necessary, Government would provide PNGDB with additional funds to complete
on-farm development (see draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)). The
smallholders' contribution to the project would consist of their labor,



- 11 -
priced at the ruling minimum rural wage rate, and valued at US$3.47 million
over the project development period. This has not been included in the
cost estimates.
42.       Government's contribution would represent the local currency
costs (US$4.76 million total) of the smallholder transport company, social
and extension services, road and technical assistance, with the exception
of that portion of local extension staff salaries which would be financed
by the Bank loan.
43.       The balance of the oil palm development program, including
the construction of the processing unit and establishment of the nucleus
estate, would be financed jointly by Government and CDC. Total cost of
this component is estimated at US$27.6 million of which CDC would finance
about US$13.8 million (including loan funds and equity) and Government,
the remainder.
Organization and Implementation
44.       The project would be implemented on three levels:   (i) a newly
established organizational structure would oversee the physical implemen-
tation of the smallholder project, including the establishment of the
smallholder transport company; (ii) DPI would be responsible for the
provision of extension services; (iii) PNGDB would serve as the conduit
for on-farm development loans to smallholders.
45.       As a result of the Hoskins experience, a central unit to coordin-
ate the multiplicity of Government departments involved in the project was
deemed necessary to ensure smooth implementation. Thus, an organizational
structure, to serve as a model for future projects, has been devised to
provide maximum coordination and communication between the various line
departments involved in the program and between headquarters staff and
field officers. A Project Management Committee chaired by the Director of
DPI has been constituted with a membership reflecting all relevant depart-
ments - in this case Finance, Transport Works and Supply, Natural Resources,
as well as PNGDB and the Provincial Commissioner of the Northern Province.
In addition, a Technical Director has also been appointed to the Project
Management Committee to oversee technical aspects of project preparation
and implementation. A Project Coordinator has been appointed to be respon-
sible to the Project Management Committee for supervising the administration
of the project, including project reporting, monitoring, cost control and
accounting. The Project Coordinator is located in the Department for
Finance in the recently established Office of Project Coordination. The
Project Coordinator would be assisted by a suitably qualified Project
Accountant who would, aside from working on the smallholder project per se,
also report to Government on all financial matters relating to the estate/
factory complex being developed as a Government/CDC joint venture. The
Project Accountant would be appointed by June 30, 1977. (See draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02.) Field supervision would be the responsibility of
the Project Manager (Field) who would be appointed by March 31, 1977. (See
draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02.) He would be a DPI staff member and



- 12 -
head of the DPI field team at Popondetta. At the Government's request, the
project would provide funds for recruiting an expatriate to serve as
Project Manager (Field), Project Accountant, and three senior staff for the
transport company.
46.       The proposed organizational structure would ensure that the
required infrastructure, and extension, education, health and community
development services are available as required. Staffing of these services
would be the responsibility of the respective line departments.
47.       In addition to supplying the chairman of the Project Management
Committee, the Technical Director, and the Project Manager (Field), the DPI
would be responsible for extension services. In addition to their technical
and advisory functions, the extension officers would act as field agents
for the PNDGB in appraising and supervising loans to smallholders. In
order to improve the performance of both DPI and PNGDB staff in this field,
a consultant would be employed to improve staff training programs.
48.       PNGDB would be the channel for the smallholder on-farm develop-
ment credit. In this activity it would liaise closely with the DPI officers
acting as its field agents, and with the proposed smallholder FFB transport
company responsible for smallholder accounting services. Although PNGDB's
performance under previous Bank Group projects has been generally satis-
factory, some improvements are necessary to strengthen its financial
position. In the past, PNGDB has received grants and loans on easy terms
as a subsidy from the Government. Such access to soft funds has acted as a
disincentive to long-term planning. As PNGDB matures as an institution,
Government subsidies are expected to decrease and therefore future funds
will be on harder terms. Thus it is essential that PNGDB should become
more self-supporting. PNGDB has therefore agreed to institute a more
effective system of financial management and long-term planning. (See
draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). In addition, certain revisions in
PNGDB's lending and investment policy and strengthening of its staff are
required. It was agreed that appropriate measures, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be undertaken. (See draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.06 and
4.01(b)(i).)
Environmental Impact
49.       Forests in the project area and unproductive cocoa areas will be
replaced by oil palm plantings. None of the forests in the project area
is designated a game or nature reserve. Road specifications have been
designed to minimize soil erosion and disturbance to river flows. The palm
oil mill would be situated in the nucleus estate, far removed from the
villages and settlements. Adequate care would be taken to incinerate empty
bunches and to deal with mill effluent by sludge trenches or other appro-
priate technology.



- 13 -
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       All items for smallholders' on-farm development, (including
fertilizers, pesticides, tools, equipment and housing materials) would
be procured in small lots, averaging about US$210,000 per annum over the
full development period, and, in any one year, no higher than about
US$470,000. Such small amounts are not suitable for international bidding,
and the goods would therefore be locally procured in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Construction of housing for extension
staff and social workers, and buildings for the transport company would be
phased over eight years, with average annual outlays of about US$142,000
and would thus also be too small to be suitable for international bidding.
For all these items, contracts' would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (but not excluding foreign bids) in accordance with
Government procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
51.       Except for some housing materials, all the goods would have
to be imported. International suppliers are well represented in PNG
and competition between them is keen. Provision of spare parts is adequate.
The vehicles proposed for the smallholder transport company would be
supplied over a four year period and would be acquired from local trucking
companies which operate competitively in PNG.
52.       The construction of new roads and bridgeworks to be done under
the project would together total some US$1.6 million. The work would be
spread over a four year period. The expected average annual outlays of
about US$425,000 would be broken down into a number of small contracts,
which would be too small to be suitable for international competitive
bidding. However, there are a number of local contractors, some with
foreign backing, who are quite capable of undertaking the work. Thus, it
is expected that the Department of Transport, Works and Supply (DTWS) would
do the designs and offer the works to local tender. The upgrading work
(about US$665,000) is more in the nature of maintenance work and would be
performend by the DTWS, which is best equipped to carry out this type of
work. However, the supply of gravel for the upgrading work would be
undertaken by local contractors. Recruitment for technical assistance
personnel and consultants for visiting inspection services would follow
Bank Group guidelines for hiring consultants.
53.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over an eight year period.    This
lengthy disbursement period is dictated by the requirements of the project,
namely a four- to five-year clearing and planting period (including the
nucleus estate), and a three-year gestation period before the plants come
to maturity. However, 88 percent of the credit would be disbursed in the
first six years.
54.       The Bank would reimburse 70 percent of long-term PNGDB loans to
oil palm smallholders and 75 percent of Government expenditures on the
transport company, construction of buildings, and vehicle and machinery for
extension and social services provided by the project. Road construction
and upgrading would be reimbursed at the rate of 70 percent and salaries of
local extension staff at the rate of 50 percent. The foreign exchange cost
of technical assistance would be fully reimbursed.



- 14 -
Justification
55.       The immediate direct benefits of the project would be twofold.
Firstly, significantly improved income and living standards would accrue
to the 1,400 smallholders involved in the project, all of whom would be
given a firm base in the cash economy. The project would thus foster
the Government's rural development objective of geographic dispersion of
development and increased opportunities in the monetized sector for Papua
New Guineans. Settler costs per family have been estimated at about
US$6,000, throughout the seven-year development period, if appropriate
adjustments are made to the cost of extension and social services to take
into account the benefits accruing to non-participants. This compares
very favorably with similar schemes in other countries.
56.       Secondly, the expansion of oil palm production would strengthen
the agricultural sector and increase foreign exchange earnings. The con-
siderable comparative advantage in oil palm cultivation which PNG enjoys
has already been highlighted. The proposed project, together with the
nucleus estate, would bring into production some 5,600 ha of presently
unutilized but very fertile land. At maturity the Popondetta program would
be exporting some 42,400 tons of palm oil and 7,400 tons of palm kernel
annually, valued at US$13.7 million, a significant increase in the PNG
context. However, in global terms PNG cannot expect to become a major
producer - in 1988 total PNG production will represent some 1 percent of
total world production and only 2 percent of total world exports.
57.       In addition to the direct benefits, the project would have
important linkage effects on the development of the Popondetta region.
The employment effects which should be viewed in the context of the overall
project and ancillary industry growth associated with it is significant.
It is estimated that these will amount to some, 3,100 jobs as follows:
smallholder development - 2,100; Government services and transport com-
pany - 300; and secondary urban and rural development - about 700.
58.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at
14.5 percent. This assumes that non-participants living in the project
area would also benefit from the extension and social services to be
provided under the project and, in view of this, that an appropriate
adjustment to the cost of these services is warranted. The estimate also
incorporates a shadow wage equal to 50 percent of the prevailing minimum
rural wage rate. If the extension and social services are fully costed to
the project, the economic rate of return (using the shadow wage rate) would
be 11 percent. This calculation is a conservative estimate of the real
benefits of the project, since no attempt has been made to quantify impor-
tant secondary benefits such as increased employment opportunities in trade
and marketing consequent upon increased production and incomes in the
project area, reduced transport costs to the general population as a result
of improved roads, and the potential benefits to smallholders of marketing
food crops or expanded production of oil palm. Risks associated with the
project are considered minimal. Valuable experience has been gained from
the Hoskins Project in devising organizational and management structures.
Even conservative price projections yield satisfactory incomes for the
smallholders.



- 15 -
Social Impact
59.       Many of the settlers and laborers would be expected to migrate
from other parts of the country - the settlers from the more populated
rural areas, particularly the Highlands, and the laborers from the unem-
ployed pool in urban areas. The choice of settlers would be made with a
view toward wide geographic selection. The design of settlements recognizes
the need to integrate people from many different parts of the country but
does not ignore potential social conflicts attendant on this process. Thus,
an attempt would be made to settle families from a single ethnic group in
adjoining properties and also to integrate these ethnic groups with groups
from other parts of the country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between The Independent State of Papua
New Guinea and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft agreement conforms to the normal
pattern for loans for agricultural projects.
61.       Features of special interest in the draft Loan Agreement are
described in paragraphs 33-36, 39-41, 45 and 48 of this report. Additional
conditions of effectiyeness are the execution of the agreement between the
Government and the CDC, and the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and PNGDB.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Exequtive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by David A. Knox
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 1, 1976






TABLE 3A                                       AINEX 1
PAPUA AND NEW GUIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHEET                     Pag-e 1f Ib pagee;
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                --------------------------------
---------------                                 PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA               REFERENCE COUNTRIES 11970)
TOTAL      475.4                                      MoST 4ECENT
AGair.       0.0                       1963      1970   ESTIMATE          LIBERIA       IVORY COAST    TRINIOAO ANO TotkAgo
GNP PER CAPITA (USS                    16C.3     310.0     450.0              290.0      340.0      1180.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION IMID-YR. mILLION)            1.9       2.5       2.7                1.3        5.4         1.0
PnPtILATION DENSITY
PE0 SQUARE KM.                       4.0        5.0       6.0               12.0       16.0       200.0
PE1 SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          ..     473.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVEPAGE bIRTH RATE (/TH(C)          h4.1       43.1       40.6              42.8       46.1        32.5
AVEDAGE rEATH RATE I/THOU)           25-5      20. 2     17.1               23.5       23.3         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOul         ..         ..        ..              137 3         ..        34.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRSI       38.6      45.1      47.7               41.0        41.0       67.8
GROSS REPRODUCTiON RATE                ..       2.9       2.9                2.6        3.1         2.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                 2.7       2.6       2.0                3.3/a      3.4 /a      2.1 /e
URBAN                                  ..        ..      16.7                 ..         8.7 /
UREAN POPULATION I2 OF TOTAL)                     6.0       11.0/a            26.2       28.0        12.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 71 14 YEARS                      40.5       42.8/a    45.2 /a            40.7       42.5        41.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                      56.6       56.2/i    53.3 7             56.0       54.8        54.8
65 YFARS AND OVER                     2.9       1.°7i     1.57i              3.3        2.7         4.0
AGF DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8       0.8       0 9/               0.8        0.8         0.8
ECONOFIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            ^ 0.8A       0.8/                         1.0/b       0.9kC      1.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..        ..        ..                 ..         ..        25.4
USERS (2 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         .                                       ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDI        1040.0     1260.0 /a     ..              580.0     2600.0       350.0 /
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE I(2         89.0      82.0        ..               72.0       82.0        22.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            ..        ..        ..               20.0/c      6.0        12.5
INCOMF DISTRIBUTION
__ _---__-------_
S OF PRIVATE INCOME RECDO BY-
HIGHEST  52 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        .         ..               61.7/d
HIGHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLOS              ..        ..        ..               72.6i        ...
LOWEST  20 OF HOUSEHOLOS              ..        ..        ..                5.3..
LOWEST  40t OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..        ..               10.9
JISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
2 OWNED BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS             ..        .         ..
I OwNFD BY SMALLEST IDO CWNERS                               ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           14390.0/b 11630.0    11130.0            10450.0    12140.0     2320.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2450.07b.c 2370.0    1870.0 /           4140.0     2480.04d     360.01
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           170.0 r   1 so0.o   150.0              530.0      680.0 L     230.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)           ..        ..        ..               88.0      108.0        9T.O
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                ..        ..        ..               36.0       60.0       64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          O. ..                ..                 l_.0/    I8.0/a     34.0-S
DEATH RATE (ITHOUI AGES 1-4             ..         ..        ..                 ..         ..         1.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLPENT RATIO
PRINARY SCHOOL                       a. 0/d-62/d66.O/b-68/b  ..             43.0       76.0       110.0/d
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     2.0Z-1j     9.0..-6g7  *               12.0       11.0L       40.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PRCVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            L1.0       LO.0      LO.0               12.0       13.0        15.a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(S CF SECONDARY)                     17.0      19.0      18.0/               5.0        7.0         8.0L!
AOULT LITERACY RATE 1(l                  *-        *       3 10D              15.0       20.0        88.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)              0.7e       ..        ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER    )                       .         ..        ..                 ..         ..8.0
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY
(S CF ALL DWELLINS)                80.0         ..        ..                 ..         ..        66.0/
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (..                                        ..         ..         ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER TFOU POP)           ..        ..        ..              132.0        L7.0      276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0       7.0       7.0               11.0       10.0        75.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PEP CAPI           30.0      64.0     356.0              ?30.0      120.0      1173.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                ..       0.1       0.2                0.1         0.2        5.5
SEE NOTES AND OFFINITICNS CN REVERSE



P'age 2 of 14 pages
NOTES
Unless oth.,ewse noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 196.8 and 1970, and for Mont Recent NEtimnte bet6een
1973 end 1975.
an rinidad and Tobago has been selected an an objective e untry because both countries are small inland nation.soad I1no both, countries reoe.tly
beenme independent. The, -st majority of people In each country are dependent on agriculture for thoir livelihood, and both countries ponsess
significant agricultural potential.
PAPUA NEW GUINhA        1960     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 656 am over to total labor force;       lb~ 19614;    /g  Incl.ding asslstant nurceen;
Zd  Papua end New   uinea respe.tively;     /e   Total', urban and rucral.
1970    A~ 1966;      /b  Papua and no. Guinea raepctively.
MOST _RECbO;T 9STDATEI    A    1971i    /b  1972.
LIBERIA                 1970     la  Due to immigration, gruwth rate is highor than the rate of natural Increase;        /b  Ratio of population under 15
and 65 and over to total Labor force;      /c  Unemployed and partially emploYed;      /d  Population;     /n  19614-66.
IVORY CUAST             1970     /a  Duoc to immigration, growth mote in higher then the rate of natural increase,       Zb  1965-70;     /c  hetio of popala-
tim  under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;       4d  Governm,ent only;    fe  19614-66i    Lf  12-li years of
age.
fTRINIDADi AND TOBAGO   1970     /a  15-614 yearn of ago;    lb  Including nideivas;     /c   19614-66;   /d    5-11 yearn of age;     /5   ilocernment main-
tained and aided schools only;      If  1966;    Zg   Inside only.
in, October 5, 1976
..-.--       - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - --  - - - - - - - - -      - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - - - - - -
DEFINITIONS Oil SOC AL INDICATORS
toed Area (thou bo1)                                           Populati~~~~~~~~~    ~    ~   ~~onpr nurio pI ron- Populatio- divided by nionber of proctic-
Tota,l   T.rtc;sr1  c  arcc c-priinlog lced area and inland ..Cern.                       le   coead fonni graduZte nurons, '-trained"- or "-certified" nurses,
'rtric. -Mont recent entinace Of anricOltrnl arean ...ed tempotarIly Or                   and auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
pacmanently for crps. P-otoren, .achet & bitches nardens or to lIe. follow.           Population ,per hosnpital bed - Populati.n divided by number of' hospital
bod  seial     in public and pniuiate general and specialized hospital
CNP per capita fUSS) - GNP Per .apit. estinates at current mairkat prijces,               and rehabilitation center3; excludes nursing hones and eotablisisnentn
calculated by saine conversons method an World Banh Atlas (1973-75 basis);              for custodial and preventive carn.
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                   Per capita supply ~~~of caore    (of resiremonets) - Computed from energy
1960, 1970 and 1975 dats.                                       P'~~~~~~~~euivalentuof nt fond aupplies available in Country Per capita pins
PoP.latiusna-d vital statistics                                                           day; available supplien cnmprioo deonstic production, imports less
Population (.id-yr. cOllier; - As Of July first: if sat available,                        exports, and changes is stock; net supplies excludie animal toeed, seeds.
average of t.o esd-yenr esti.Cace; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                            quantltioo aced in food procenaing and lossesa in distribut.ion; re-
slsirements were estinntod by FAD bosed on physionlogical needs for
Peuaio    density - per Innere ion - Mid-year popultutto   per equate bib1.-          normal activity asd health considering movironmental ieoperatwre
meer (100 hectaree) of total area.                                                      body weights, ege end seec di.trihuLio-s of population, and aloII.   g
Pnpul.tion denity     Ie   qua-e hen of natic, teed - Compiled as above for               10% for waste at household level.
agialoallnd only.                                                              Prcsa       o   ly of proteinp(grams    0 ps-daj  Protein Content Of Per
cait  st  uplyoffod    erday,    i6i-Pply of food is defined an,
Vital statietics                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~abuvn; requiressnts for all coiotries established by USDA Elconomicl
Ctrade birth rate per thousand - Annua   live births per thoun.and Of old-                Res.erch Senrvices provide for a ninimums allowance sf 60 gramse of total
year populition; ten-year aitheetic avergage       ending is 1960 aed 1970,             p-siat    per day, 0-0 2i g-an   Of anaal and Pusie p-uta-, ad eaten 15
asd fi--year average endien in 1975 for mast re..ent estimate.                          groms uhOnId L.m -1-1ta prutst; limos otnd-.ds arm laeri..        di
Crude death rate per thousand - A-..aI deaths per tho.aend of      id-year                of 75 groams of total protein and 23 graiso of animal protein as an avr-
popsiattee; ten-year arithmetic averagee eedieg,in 1960 and 1970, and                   age for the  w,rld, proposed by PAO in the Third World Fend Survey.
flee-ear aerag  endlg in1975  cr mnt reent etinae.            Pe capta prOtein ouply' fron animal end palse - Protein supply Of feed
finfant er      oves'rate fcoein ;i 1975esor deatb o r efent steode  oet ea  o           derie   fron animals and pulses in grams per day.
age.o pert. tbooe  live birtho.) -  n-       et.o      n-s-drm            ero           et                          -Adnr,l deaths per thousand in age group
Life a.nectency at birth ye)- Averaga numeber of years of life remaining                  1- mlurtIoncide          nti.g       ru;     agss      5a     niao
at birth; uSually five-year average. ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 forf                     enartis
de,veloping Countries.Edcto
Crone reproduction rate - Average nunber of live dooghtera a womne     wilt             EuAT-,ti ontj                  IMl
bera in her noma1 reproductive Period if she emperiesces present agO-                 Adsidesabr raipm             rmsvscol-Toolsnto                l    gsa
specific fertility rates; usually f ive-y.ar averagee ending In 1960,                   percentage         of-piny  ca1age population; includes chi-ldren aged
1970 nod 1975 for developing countries.                                                 6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary educations
Population growth rate M5   - total - Compeund anoint growth rtaes cf mid-                for coutries with unvra        dau,uiin,   i-aIpn    may' 'and 100%
year pepuiecon far 1950-0, 19h0-70,  nd 1970-75.                   ince some puapils are below or above tim  official school age.
Per opulation frs thrte o95 -ben 16- Co mptd 1ik9    gowh0ot7o5tta                     Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school, - Computed am above; mac-
Populto;dfeetdfnton                   fubncescyafctcmaa                                   nayeaainreuesa               least four years of approved primary
blyofdata  e amng cuirions.          bnara        a   fftcmaeinstruction; provides general, vocational pr teacher training iAntrsc-
bUt          fdt      mn   Coutl)-ratooi   ubntottlpouaio;df                             tions for pupils of 12 to 17 year      of age; Correspondence courses are
ferent dei?TTipi       ubnareas may affect Comparability of dnta                        generallyexcluded
among ceuntriss.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Years of schooling ervided (first end second levels) -Ttlyaso
~amogCoun.thries     t      hlrn(-14yas.wrigag                  1-1     er)              schooling; at necdry level, vocational instrmaition may be pestiallY
And set-cs    W(ercent     -n Chilt)e as pey'rcenage   wofkiniggea populaionr)           or completely excluded.
ratioi~:  6   - 4Ratooe    ouainudr and 6e)5pecn.nO   endy..   Over.tion       Vocational enrollmant (% of secondany) - Vocational inatitutiOns include
thoe dHe.enc      ratio   ati   o     opltinhdr         5a6164.doert                     technical, indostrial or other ps-grooms which opsrato independently
Econeomi   age.edic 7 oni t -,g   64i  fpoainude         5ed65adoe                       or as departnents of oecondary institutions.
coois th pelabnr frceinateo gri       of p5-Du  yarlon udr1an65ndorAullircyrate                                 -Literate adults (able to read and write) an
Family plan.ine - acceptors cusatie         . to)- Cumulative number -f                   Percentage or ttate    aduliopltnagd1ysradov.
alceptora of birth-control devices under auspices of national familyusn
pianning program    sines inception.                                                                 o       aFg)-Aeaenme                fpro-prro,i          c.
EamLily parning, - uners (9   of married women) - Percentages of married                Persons per roo   aeae         vrg      ubro      ess      e   ominn-
wnman of child-hearinig age (15-1,44ye-a-rs)wbs use birth-control din-                  Copied conventional dwel.ll.gsg in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-
vices, to all married  omman in same age group.                                         perlnnent strom tures and unoccuied parts.
Occupied enelne without piped water ()-occupied conventional
Rleelovmsnt                                                  dwellings In urban and rur~~~~~~~~~al areas without inside or outside piped
fcsee(tbaosnd)- Ecnomially  lotie pesons,incldingwater facilities -as percentago of all occupied dwellings.
armed forces and unemployed hb,t excluding housewives, students, etocAces to electriciy (9ofal dwellinge)hter                  as    Ce nemotiOf a tt dweIllngs
definitions in various countries are not conpsrablo.                                    with eleban  ib   ind living qorerrepeaoaotldelig
labor force in agriculture (9) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                    in1.d urbanl andity ruralptedaareas.fo
fsrestr, huntng endfishin) as prcentage of total labor force.                 urldwelIn     S. coun tdtoelcrit()-Csuedaabvfo
ad  ofinbr frce  -  senloyed are usually defined as personss               ua     wlig      n
who arm abeecan   willing to tlae ma job, out of' a job on a gives day,               Cons,etion
remained out sf a job, and    seicing work for a specified miniounon--c                              ra(e   thou .        l   pe      ofrceiesfrrdobed
period nout exceeding one wee'c; may not be comparable between coun-                         ~)-'l                             ye       frevr     'rrdobod
tries due to different definitions of unemployed and source of data,                    casts to general Public prthnuomod of population; aecludes umli-
e.g.,emplynset ofIce  tatitics  sampe suveys  coepulsxy aon-tensed receivers in countries and in years wheon registration ct radio
e.g., mplnt  mentsurance.tc.               ml. -y          opusryuw                     set. was in effsect; data far rece-l years may nut be comparable since
ployment insurance.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~mast countries abolished liconoing.
incomedlstnbstion- Peceseageef ptv~ee ic~  (bth is  ash  dbind)   pansenger Car   per thou po  ) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seat-
recie     yrcet %         ihn      0,   ern      0ne j,                                      eota       ight "atsonns  excludes asbulances, hearses and mili-
hauseholde.                                       .      P       40   oftery vehicles.
Electricity (kwhlyr per can1) - Ainmal consumption of industrial, com-
Distrbutin oflendowneship- Pscentge,,ef lad o,ed  y we; ibmaercil, public aidl private electricitmy in kilowatt houro per capita;
Dentr 10      f endnpoornesthlio   -so Percntaers                                         generalldyt alhbased on prodiction data, without alisosc. for losses in
poorest 1%  ffflls.d Owners,                           ~~~~grids hit allowing for imports and exoqmrts of electricit'y.
Newsprint (ta/yr ner cap) - per capita annual Consumption in kilogra=s
Poslathin petrieytin-Ppltion            divided by number of practicing                    estimated frm- domastic production Plus net imports of newsprint.
physicians qualified fron a medioal ich1o.l at university lavel.



ANNEX r
Page 3 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - PAIUA NEW GUINEA
AREA      2        POPULATION                                    DENSITY
475,366 km         2.65 million (mid-1974)                               2
Rate of Growth:   2.6% (from 1966 to 1974)      13.6/km
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1974)                              HEALTH (1974)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                  44.2             Population per Physician     10,860
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                  16.3             Population per Hospital Bed     224
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)      96.0
EDUCATION                                                      ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Adult Literacy Rate (1971)          32.2%                         % of Population - Urban    50%
Primary School Enrollment (1975)    56.8%
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1975 US$450 /1
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN FY75                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%,   FY69 constant price)
(at current prices)
US$ Million         %         FY71-72          FY72-73        FY73-74
GDP at Market Prices       1,365.6        100.0          2.8             20.1             1.2
Gross Domestic
Investment                  220.2         16.1       -20.1             -43.7          -37.5
Gross Domestic Saving        201.4         14.7        -32.9            243.4            86.3
Current Account Balance      149.0         10.9           -             104.2            18,6
Exports of Goods, NFS        566.4         41.5        36.3             -23.3           -4.6
Imports of Goods, NFS        556.8         40.8        -5.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972
Value Added -                 Labor Force                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Million     %             '000         %              LJS$    % of National
Average
Agriculture       258.7       40.1            158       48.8           1,637          82.2
Industry         189.7        29.4            43        13.3           4,411         221.4
Services          197.1       30.5           123        37.9           1,602          80.4
Total/Average     645.5      100.0           324       100.0           1,992         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                               % of GDP
FY75                  FY72-73           FY74             FY75
Current Receipts               179.7                  12.3             13.6             18.0
Current Expenditures/3         341.0                  27.8             27.6             34.2
Current Deficit               -161.3                  15.5             14.0             16.2
Capital Expenditures            33.1                   5.8              3.0              3.3
External Assistance (net)      137.6                 16.2              15.2             13.8
1/ 1975 World Atlas.
2/ At factor cost.
3/ Includes salaries and allowance paid by the Australian Government to its overseas
officers in the PNG public service.
October 1, 1976



ANF I.X r
Page 4 of 4
COUNTRY DA'IA - PAPUA NEW (.UINEA
MONEY, CREVDI AND PRICE'S                    FY73       FY74    FY75
(Million K outstanding end of period)
Money and Quasi Moncy/I                       149.3     284.()  303.5
Blank CredL [to Public Sector                  19.3    -12.4      8.4
RInk Credit to I'rivate Sector                118.3     137.9   170.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Molley as Z of CDI'            25.1      28.3
Consumer l'rice Index (1971=100)              111.0     143.3    154.1
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index (1971=1J0)              4.8      29.1     7.5
Bank Credit to Plublic Sector                1.0   -164.2    167.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             -12.6       16.6    23.4
BALANCF. OF PAYMENrS /2                            ME.RCHANDISE EXi'ORTS (AVERAGE FY73-75)
FY73    FY74     FY75 /3                      USS Million      Z
(US$ llillion)
Ixports of Coods          304.4   676.3    562.3    Coffee                  38.8        7.7
import of Goods           276.9   330.4   496.0     Cocoa                   33.5        6.7
NF-Service (net)          -38.1   -29.6   -56.7     Copra & Copra ProduICts 43.0        8.6
Resource Cap (deficit = -)-10.6   316.3     9.6     Timber                  19.9        4.0
Copper Ore &
Concentrates         323.7       64.5
Factor Service P'ayments                            All Other Commodities   42.8        8.5
(net)                 -122.8  -306.3   -50.2       Total
Net Transfers             188.2   222.6    189.6       (excl. Reexports)   501.7      100.()
Balance on Current
Account                 54.8   232.6    149.0
P'rivate Capitalt         -30.9   -95.4   -27.5     EXTERNAL DlBT. IDECEMBER 31, 1975
Plublic MIl loans (net)    40.1    53.8    46.7                                  US$ Million
Direct Investment          68.4   210.2    -45.2
Othier Capital n.e.i.     -94.8  -163.7   -174.4     Public iDebt, incl. Guaranteed   311
Residual (surplus)         37.6   237.5   -51.4     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt        -
Total Outstanding & Disbursed     111
FUIL AND RELATED MiArERIALS
FY72    FY73     FY74      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY75 /4 A
(US$ llillion)
Imports                15.2    14.2     29.6      I'ublic D)ebt, incl. Guaranteed   2.9
Exports                 -       -        -        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt        -
Total Outstanding & I)isbursed     2.9
RATE OF EXCtiANGE                                IBRD/IDA LENIDING (as of 8/31/76) (US$ Million):
Until 12/23/72              9/9/73 - 9/30/74                                  IBRD     IDA
US$1.00 = KO.840            US$1.i00 = KO.675
KI.00 = US$1.19             K1.00  = US$1.49       Outstanding & Disbursed    48.5    20.7
Undisbursed                 7.0     4.5
12/23/72 - 2/13/73          9/30/74 - 6/30/75      Outstanding incl.
US$1.00 = K0.784            US$1.00 = KO.752           Undisbursed            55.5    25.2
K1.00 = US$1.28             KI.00  = US$1.33
2/13/73 - 9/9/73            6/3U/75 - 7/25/76
US$1.00 = KO.704            US$1.00 = KO.794
KI.00 = US$1.42             KI.00 = US$1.26
From 7/25/76
US$1.00 = KO.763
KI.00 = US$1.31
1/ PNG has been part of the Australian monetary and banking system. Figures on money and
quasi money are therefore only estimates.
2/ PNG as part of the Australian monetary system has had no complete separate balance of
payments. Figures on private capital and monetary mnovemnents are rough estimates. The
country has not had foreign exchange reserves on its own until the last year.
3/ Preliminary.
4/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
October I, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of August 31, 1976
Loan or
Credit                                              Amounts (US$ millions)
Number       Year    Borrower       Purpose       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Three credits and three loans fully disbursed     34.7    11.0        -
852-PNG      1972      PNG     Telecommunications 10.0               3.0
326-PNG      1972      PNG     Ports                      9.2        1.9
348-PNG      1973      PNG     Livestock                  5.0        2.6
999-PNG      1974      PNG     Power II           10.8               4.0
Total now outstanding              55.5   25.2      11.5
Amount sold                         6.1
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /1                      49.4   25.2
Total undisbursed                   7.0    4.5      11.5
B.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /2
Loan No. 737        Upper Ramu No. 1 Hydroelectric Project; US$23.2 Million
Loan of May 26, 1971; Effective Date: July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
The project consists of a 75 MW underground power station, re-
lated substations, and 320 miles of transmission lines linking centers
previously served by small diesel units. The civil works were completed
/1   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
/2   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 2
ahead of schedule within the 20 percent cost escalation over the original
estimate, but delays occurred in equipment supplies and commissioning of
the third unit which took place in July 1976, about ten months behind the
original schedule.   The total project cost expressed in Australian dollars
is now A$34.8 million as against A$30.3 million during appraisal (15 per-
cent increase). The difference in terms of US dollars is larger because
of exchange rate movements. The project is still economically justified
even with the changed economic situation.
Loan No. 999         Second Power Project; US$10.8 Million Loan of
June 12, 1974; Effective Date: December 27, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This project consists of three distinct items:
(i) training of local staff to permit an early and
rapid reduction of expatriates;
(ii) modest distribution expansion covering needs
thru 1979; and
(iii) shortfall in foreign exchange for Loan 737-PNG
because of the devaluation of the US dollar.
Procurement of distribution materials is underway. As for staff
recruitment, ELCOM is having extreme difficulties in reaching the target
figure due to movement of overseas staff back to Australia and difficulties
in finding suitable replacements. Another factor is that otherwise com-
petent expatriates originally selected as trainers have not always been
suitable in every case. To overcome these problems partially, ELCOM has
employed management consultants, in particular P.A. Management Consultants
Pty. Ltd., to conduct training courses or to provide guidance. Since July
1974 six such courses/exercises, at a cost to ELCOM of A$107,000, have been
conducted. The results achieved to date have been promising with about 140
Papua New Guineans having completed their training. Local staff have been
gradually taking over daily operations.
Loan No. 852         Second Telecommunications Project; US$10.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1972; Effective Date: January 19, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project provides for: (a) installation of 13,000 lines of
automatic switching equipment; (b) provision of UHF/VHF radio systems; (c)
installation of multiplex equipment to provide 650 additional circuits and
extension of long-distance automatic exchanges; and (d) consultant services.
It supports P&T's July 1973, to June 1975, development program and follows
immediately on that successfully completed under the first loan 546-PNG. As
a result of a reduction in demand for local subscribers' connections when the
schedule for independence was first announced, the project was spread over
four years instaead of three years and the closing date extended to June 30,



ANNEX II
Page 3
1977. Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and the project is expected
to be complete in advance of the revised closing date. Growth in traffic
particularly for the long distance and international services has been
greater than estimated and this has offset the initial reduction in demand
for local services so that financial results have been highly satisfactory
and have exceeded appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 326        First Ports Project; US$9.2 million Credit of July 21,
1972; Effective Date: February 8, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The original project consisted of extending port facilities at Lae
and Kieta, land reclamation for new storage facilities at Port Moresby, a
new port development at Alotau, provision of mechnical handling equipment,
and consultant services. Work on all the original port improvements included
in the project has been completed; the contract for improvements to the Ocean
Wharf at Kieta, subsequently included in the project, has been let. There
will not be any expenditures for mechanical equipment as originally foreseen.
Papua New Guinea Harbors Board's financial position remains sound. It has
undertaken a review of its tariff and cash flow position over the next five
years in the light of the development programs' requirements and some re-
vision of tariffs will be required. Total cost of the civil engineering
projects is practically the same as previously reported and it is anticipated
that the total amount of the credit may not be expended.
Loan No. 348         Smallholder Livestock Credit Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of January 4, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project supports the Government's program for development of
livestock production by smallholders. Sub-loans are made through the Papua
New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) to smallholders for beef, pig and poultry
production. Technical assistance to smallholder livestock producers is
provided by the Department of Primary Industry (DPI). The Project also
provides for farmer training, in-service training of DPI extension staff
and for upgrading livestock research. Physical progress of the Project
has been good in that the total number of sub-loans has been in excess of
the appraisal estimate. However, the average sub-loan size has been much
smaller than the appraisal estimate and only about 50 percent of the credit
was disbursed at June 30, 1976. The Government will request an extension
of the closing date from December 31, 1976, probably to December 31,
1978.






ANNEX III
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Government of Papua New Guinea
Amount:               US$12.0 million
Terms:                20 years maturity including 4-1/2 years grace
Onlending:            $4.02 million would be onlent to PNGDB at 9 percent
for 16 years including 7 years of grace.
Project               The project will establish about 1,400 smallholders
Description:        on about 5,600 ha for oil palm cultivation and provide
them with long-term credit, extension services, social
and economic infrastructure, including feeder roads,
housing, and health, education and welfare facilities.
The project would also establish a Government-owned
transport company to serve the smallholders. Not
included in the project but crucial to its success,
is the concurrent establishment of a nucleus estate
and factory to process both smallholders and estate
production. The nucleus estate/factory complex is
being financed by the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation. The project also includes a
technical assistance component which provides funds
for the employment of key expatriate personnel (24 man-
years in all) for the smallholder project and for a
consultant (2 man-years) to establish training pro-
grams for DASF and PNGDB staff in smallholder credit
operations.
Estimated Costs:                                           US$ million
Local     Foreign     Total
Smallholder development       1.1        2.6        3.7
Transport company             0.2        0.8        1.0
Extension services            1.1        0.3        1.4
Social services              0.9         0.4        1.3
Vehicle equipment and
* machinery hire             0.3        1.0         1.3
Technical assistance          0.1        0.7        0.8
Roads                        0.7         1.6        2.3
Contingencies
Physical                 0.3        0.6        0.9
Price                   2.3         3.4        5.7
Total project cost            7.2       11.3       18.5



ANNEX III
Page 2
Financing Plan:        The proposed Bank loan of US$12.0 million would
represent some 66 percent of total project costs,
including the entire foreign exchange component plus
some US$700,000 in local expenditures for extension
staff. Government and PNGDB would contribute the
remainder on a ratio of about 3 to 1.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY             77     78    79    80    81    82    83     84
Annual              0.5   1.3   2.2   2.8   2.1   1.7   0.8    0.6
Cumulative         0.5    1.8   4.0   6.8   8.9  10.6  11.4   12.0
Procurement:           Procurement of all items except road works would be
in small annual lots, unsuitable for international
bidding.  Local competitive bidding, employing pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank and not excluding
foreign bidders, will be employed. Road works, which
are more in the nature of maintenance, will be carried
out under force account.
Rate of Return:        14.5 percent
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 1160-PNG, dated September 23, 1976.
East Asia and Pacific Region



148--00,                                                                                                    IBRD-11093R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lf[- 19
14sRoo                                           IA 10'                                    PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                    BAPRDIL 1976
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM                             Pvv' OeWe,,
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                   AU NEWGDUINEA
-a-30'                                                                                                         0-3 )11 -_I 91-n'T ,]  c ;posed for oilpOalm  a- o
---3o:~  Prpsd ew settlement areas, number of blocks  OJTAI 
Land tenure conver-ion, number of blocks
Village oil palm, number of block,                      NEW
'Y","," .   Proposed Kumusi timber area    n
A   Proposed  oil palm  mill           __In l __no_io_io  Loo  do_i__  _  _
O   Proposed oil palm tank form             ThU b-uvd.e1svvr, oh-  n'h. ,  db not
*   Popondetta agricultural training institute(PATI)  Wldbkd,raffl_ro
El  Agriculturol station
, . . . . . . .                                  s                                          A W L $ i < Two lamn roads
@   . .'. 't' . '  ".' ' ';  '  ' "'.' ;" ';' ' '.  .';' /'s ' ' 1-'. .".'. . . .. .'hree mete, wide    x                   ? "  I '"6  a;'
-                      Tbree meter wide Ra~~~~~~~~~isting roads   ?0         I.
;;*.pI.Its4t*A4tIt4J,,,,,                                           E  isting t racks gtrOaMETER
&  :                       ;  .        ' ....................................................  L L <>   . .  . . . . . . . . .                    84 lp
I,,     . . . . . .  ....   .    .. . .                                                         Nwo Itmeter access road, 
940.  .r-v  ;*,*,,..   ,  *+   . \,,,  ., ,                                                                                                               o   Se MILE
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  * .~iIIIII                       Z  Deps,pr
. . . .. . . ...~'-
\U' '&~~~~~~~.,,,,,'.X. ' i.:' : .  .  .  .  .......  ..  .z: .  '']?  'zII ....  .  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .
x t~~~~~~~~       . . .: .:::::::  ::: .: . . . . . . .                                                    A 
.... .,....               AK 
ft,~~~~~ .   i,,,,,, .   . , .   . , ., .   .   . i . s .   .}  .   .   '' .   .   .   .o  
.  .  .         [ .      ~         _AOf
.  .F  .   .  .  . ..... .... .AVA .  .   .
To d  1 0                                                                                                10  On..   ........'



