Report No. 1160-PNG
Papua New Guinea: Appraisal of the
Popondetta Smaliholder Oil Palm Development
Project                                                   R N TOa
RETORNTO ~S
September 24,' 1976                                    RPRS0S
Projects Department   F  LE  C tOPY ~                        WITHIN
East Asia and Pacific Region                               ONE  ~WEEI<--
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          -   K 0.78
K 1           -   US$1.27
K 1,000,000   -   US$1,270,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)    -   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)  -   0.62 miles
1 metric ton      -   2,206 lbs.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
ASAG   -  Australian Staff Assistance Group
CDC    -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
DASF   -  Department of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries
DMD    -  Deputy Managing Director
DPI    -  Department of Primary Industry (previously DASF)
EC     -  Estate Company
FC     -  Factory Company
FFA    -  Free Fatty Acid
FFB    -  Fresh Fruit Bunch
IATI   -  Highlands Agricultural Training Institute
H & C  -  Harrisons and Crosfield Ltd.
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Bank)
IDA    -  International Development Association
M      -  Million
MD     - Managing Director
NBPOD  -  New Britain Palm Oil Development Ltd.
NEC    -  National Executive Council
OPC    -  Office of Project Coordination
PATI   -  Popondetta Agricultural Training Institute
PC     -  Project Coordinator
PM     -  Project Manager
PMC    -  Project Management Committee
PNG    -  Papua New Guinea
PNGDB  -  Papua New Guinea Development Bank
PRDO   -  Provincial Rural Development Officer
PTA    -  Plant and Transport Authority
PWD    -  Public Works Department
RDA    -  Rural Development Assistant
RDO    -  Rural Development Officer
RDT    -  Rural Development Technician
ROR (E)-  Economic Rate of Return
ROR (F)-  Financial Rate of Return
TA     -  Technical Assistance
TC     -  Transport Company
TOR    -  Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................-  iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                               1
II.    BACKGROUND  ............................................                               2
A.    General  ..................................I.......                             2
B.    Agricultural  Sector  ..............................                            3
III.   PROJECT AREA AND FORMULATION ..................                                          9
A.     Area  .............................................                            9
B.    Formulation  ......................................                           10
IV.     THE  PROJECT                ...........................................              11
A.    General  Description  ........ .               ... ...........                11
B.    Detailed  Features  ................                  .................       12
C.  Environmental Impact ..................                                         16
D.    Cost  Estimates ...................................                           16
E.     Financing           ....................         ..................          18
F.    Procurement  ....... ............                  ..................         20
G.    Disbursements              ..................       ..................        20
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................                             21
A.     General  ..........................................                           21
B.    Department of Primary  Industry ..............  ....                          22
C.     Papua  New Guinea Development  Bank  ....                    ............    22
D.     Staffing  .........................................                           24
E.     Settler  Selection  ................................                         24
VI.    YIELDS, MARKETING AND  SMALLHOLDERS' INCOME  ....                        ........     24
A.    Yields  ...........................................                           24
B.    Markets and  Prices  ...............................                          25
C.    Purchase  of Smallholders' FFB  ....................                          26
D.     Smallholders  Incomes  .............................                         26
VII.      BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  ............................                           27
VIII.      RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................................                             31
Th   document hs a retricted distributn and may be used by recipents only In the performance
of their omcial dutis. Its contents may not othetrwis be disclosd without World Bank authorilation.



-2*-
ANNEXES
1.   Department of Primary Industry
Table    1:  DPI Staffing
Chart    1:  DPI Organigram
2.   Papua New Guinea Development ]3ank
Appendix 1:  Organization Chart
2:  Staff Numbers 1973-1978
3: Draft Terms of Reference for Agricultural Credit
Specialist
4:  Terms of Reference for Consultants (Systems and
Procedures)
5:  List of PNGDB Offfices as at February 1976
Table   1:  Balance Sheets
2:  Profit and Loss Accounts
3: Analysis of Administrative Expenses
4: Loan Approvals
5:  Agricultural Loans to Papua New Guineans - FY75
6: Bank Control-led Companies
3.   Oil Palm Development and Research
Table   1:  Timetable fcir New Settlements
2: Smallholder Labor Requirements
3: Planting Program for Smallholders and the Nucleus
Estate
4:  FFB, Oil and Kernel Yields in Ton/Ha
5:  FFB, Oil and Kernel Production
6:  Required Mill Capacity
7: Smallholder Fertilizer Recommendations and Costs
8: Development Costs for New and Existing Settlements
and Vilage Holdings
9:  Farm Model-Existing Settlements
10: Farm Model-New Settlements
11:  Farm Model-Village Holdings
12: Summary Smallholder Oil Palm Development
Costs over P'roject Development Period
Chart  2:  Critical Path for Project Implementation
4.   Nucleus Estate and Processing Facility
Table   1:  Cost for Factory and Estate Companies
2: Financing Plan - Factory and Estate Companies
5.   Road Requirements, Infrastructure and Staff Transportation
Table   1:  Road Construction - Phasing and Costs
2: Social Services - Housing and Building Require-
ments and Costs
3: Extension Service - Housing and Building
Requirements and Costs
4:  Vehicle, Equipment'and Machinery Hire



-3-
ANNEXES (Contd/...)
6.   Technical Services and Staffing
Appendix 1: Terms of Reference
Table    1:  Social Services - Staff Requirements and  Costs
2: Extension Service - Staff Requirements and Costs
3: Technical Assistance - Requirements and Costs
7.   Smallholder FFB Marketing
Table    1:  Transport Company - Construction Program and Costs
2: Transport Company - Staffing Requirements and Costs
3: Transport Company - Vehicles and Equipment Require-
ments and Costs
4: FFB Pricing Formula
8.   Project Cashflows
Table    1:  PNGDB Project Cashflow
2: Smallholders Cashflows
9.   Disbursement Schedule
10.   Project Management
Chart    3:  Project Management Organization
11.   World Market Prospects for Palm Oil
Table    1:  Palm Oil Production in Major Producing Countries:
Five Year Averages and Percentage Shares,
1955-1974
2:  Palm Oil World Exports in Major Producing Countries:
Five Year Averages and Percentage Shares, 1955-74
3:  Palm Oil Imports by Major Importing Countries:
Five Year Averages and Percentage Shares, 1955-74
4: World Production of Selected Oil Seeds, Fats and
Oils
5: World Exports of Selected Oil Seeds, Fats and Oils
6: Prices and Price Index of Selected Fats and Oils
(Current)
7: Prices and Price Index of Selected Fats and Oils
(Constant)
Graph    1:  Palm Oil Production for Selected Countries
2: Palm Oil Exports for Selected Countries
3: Palm Oil Imports for Selected Countries
12.   Economic Analysis
Table    1:  Economic Rate of Return
13.   Cost and Benefit Recovery
Table    1:  Rent and Cost Recovery
MAPS






PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
(i)       The proposed eight year project is designed to establish small-
holder settlement for oil palm production at Popondetta in the Northern
Province of Papua New Guinea. It would be part of an overall area develop-
ment program of Popondetta directed to the establishment of 9,600 ha of oil
palm comprising 5,600 ha for smallholders, 4,000 ha for a nucleus estate
company and the establishment of an oil palm factory company to process both
smallholders and nucleus estate production. The nucleus estate/factory
companies would be financed jointly by Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC). The Project has been based on the highly
successful smallholder oil palm development at Hoskins in New Britain which
was financed by IDA Credits 137 and 175-PNG. Oil palm is an ideal crop for
smallholder settlement in PNG since it has been shown that under local con-
ditions the settlers, most of whom have had no previous experience with tree
crops, are able to meet the management requirements associated with success-
ful oil palm development with intensive guidance from extension staff. Also
because of favorable soils and climate, oil palm yields up to 20% more and
starts yielding up to 1-1/2 years earlier than in other countries. This
gives PNG considerable advantage over other oil palm producing countries.
(ii)      The Project would focus on the establishment of 4 ha of oil palm
and a 1/2 ha of food garden for about 1,400 settlers, 600 of whom would be
new settlers from other areas and 800 who would either be existing settlers
of a previous unsuccessful cocoa development program or villagers living in
the area. The smallholders would be provided long term credit to cover on-
farm development costs, settlement/survey costs and a living allowance paid
until the commencement of oil palm production. All loans would carry a
11% interest rate with a 4 year grace period. The extension services at
Popondetta would be expanded. In addition to providing assistance to
settlers on oil palm development the services would also be available to
all people in the area to advise on food crop production. The health,
education and welfare services in the area would also be upgraded in line
with Government's policies to bring the amenities to its standards for rural
areas. Technical assistance would provide for recruiting 14 years of tech-
nical and financial management expertise and for 2 man years for training
field officers of the Papua New Guinea Development Bank (PNGDB) and the
Department of Primary Industry (DPI) in smallholder credit operations.



- ii -
(iii)     Total project costs are estimated at US$18.5 M with about 61%
foreign exchange component. The Bank loan would finance foreign exchange
costs of US$11.3 M and US$0.7 M local currency for additional extension
staff required by the Project. International bidding for purchase of on-farm
development items, building construction for extension and social services
and vehicles for transportation of smallholders fruit would not be appropriate
because of the small nature of individual orders or contracts and also that
they would be phased over a minimum of 5 years. For all of these, contracts
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Road construction and upgrading would also
not be attractive for international competitive bidding because of the small-
ness of individual contracts phased over a 4 year period. The Public Works
Department (PWD) would tender in accordance with Bank guidelines for bridge
and new road works (US$2.56 M) but would carry out upgrading work (US$1.05 M)
with its own resources since PWD would be best equipped for this work which
is in the nature of maintenance. The recruitment of personnel under technical
assistance (US$0.97 M) would follow Bank guidelines for recruiting consultants.
(iv)      Government recently established a Project Management Committee (PMC)
with overall responsibility for project execution. A Technical Director (TD)
in the Department of Primary Industry will be responsible for physical imple-
mentation of the project. A Project Coordinator (PC) will be the executive
officer for the PMC and will be responsible for routine administration. He
will be located in the Office of Project Coordination (OPC) which has been
established in the Department of Finance to service all National Development
Projects. In addition to liaising with the line departments involved in the
project and the Project Manager Field (PM), the PC will also be responsible
for coordinating project reporting, financial control and preparing disburse-
ments claims for the Bank. The TD and the PC will be Government appointed
Directors (or Alternate Directors to the Secretaries for Primary Industry and
for Finance) to the Boards of the Factory Company, the Nucleus Estate Company
and the FFB Transport Company during the peroid of project implementation.
(v)       The PM would be responsible for supervision and coordination of all
field activities of the smallholder development program; as head of the DPI
field staff he would be located at Popondetta. He would report to the PC
on all matters relating to project financing and to the TD on all extension
staff and technical matters.
(vi)      In addition to it being a crop that is well suited to the Papua
New Guinean smallholder, investment in oil palm in PNG is also justified
as follows:
(a)  it is exploiting the proven natural advantages of inherently
fertile soils, good climate and freedom from pests and
diseases for oil palm production;
(b) it is adding to the country'S base of foreign exchange earners;
and



- iii -
(c) under PNG conditions it is an ideal crop to pioneer area
development in many of the underutilized fertile coastal areas
by providing a sound commercial base from which further
secondary development can expand.
(vii)     No difficulty is expected in marketing the output of the small-
holders and the nucleus estate estimated to peak at 42,400 tons in 1988
when PNG's total production would represent about 2% of estimated world
exports and 1% of world production at that time. Smallholders would commence
earning incomes in about the 4th year of development and over the period of
debt service these would increase to about K 650 (US$825). At full produc-
tion, after loans are fully repaid, a settler's cash income is expected to
peak at about K1,560 (US$1,981). This income which is roughly three times
the estimated subsistence commodity basket affords adequate incentive to
ensure smallholder participation. Based on a median farm gate price of
K 22.50 per ton FFB the rates of returns to the smallholders is satisfactory
at 17.1% for new settlers, 19.8% for existing settlers and 20.5% for villager
farmers. The economic rate of return of 14.5% is satisfactory particularly
in PNG where opportunities for large scale investment in commercial agricul-
ture are limited. In addition to providing increased incomes for smallholders
the project would also provide for improved health, education and welfare
facilities to all people in the project area. The project would also encourage
through its settler selection policy integration of people from many parts of
the country with the development of a new social identity amongst them. This
aspect is of particular significance as PNG searches for a new post indepen-
dence national identity.
(viii)    This would be the fourth Bank Group project in PNG's agricultural
sector. In FY69 a Credit of US$1.5 M was made for a smallholder oil palm
project and this was expanded in FY70 with a further credit of US$5.0 M
which also financed coconut development and livestock ranching. The third
credit of US$5.0 M was made in FY73 for smallholder livestock development.
(ix)      With the assurances detailed in Chapter VIII, the proposed project
is suitable for a US$12 M loan under usual Bank terms. The borrower would be
the Government of PNG.






PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Papua New Guinea requested the Bank Group's
assistance in the financing of smallholder oil palm development in Bialla (in
West New Britain) and Popondetta (in Northern Papua) and submitted its pro-
posals for a project in 1973. An IDA/IBRD appraisal mission visited Papua New
Guinea (PNG) in March/April 1974 and prepared proposals for the Bialla sub-
project subject to agreement between Government and its Japanese co-financiers
(in the nucleus estate companies) 1/ on factory design and specifications.
Appraisal of the Popondetta sub-project was postponed due to delays by
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), Government's joint venture part-
ner in that sub-project, in completing its own appraisal.
1.02      An IDA mission visited PNG in February, 1975, but due to continued
disagreement between Government and the Japanese co-financiers, there was
no progress on the Bialla sub-project. 2/ Processing of the Popondetta
sub-project also was further delayed since CDC had still not completed its
appraisal. The position improved in 1975 and a Bank mission consisting of
Messrs. Milford, Arichandran and Prins (Bank), Bell and Jagger (Consultants)
visited PNG in February, 1976 to finalize the Popondetta sub-project. This
report is based on the findings of this mission.
1.03      This would be the fourth Bank Group project in PNG's agricultural
sector. In FY69 a credit of US$1.5 million (M) was made for a smallholder
oil palm project and this was expanded in FY70 with a further credit of
US$5.0 M which also financed coconut development, and livestock ranching.
The third Credit of US$5.0 M made in FY73 was for smallholder livestock
development.
1.04      The proposed project conforms with Government's strategy for
development, through diversification, of PNG's agricultural sector and
export earnings, 3/ and its aim to achieve national economic growth and
social justice, and promote self reliance.
1/   These consisted of a Holding Company and two Subsidiaries for a
nucleus estate and a processing factory unit.
2/   During negotiations the Bank was informed that Government had
terminated the agreement with its joint venture partner.
3/   The project will help in reducing (at least somewhat) PNG's
dependence on copper as a foreign exchange earner.



- 2 -
II. BAC]KGROUND
A. General
2.01      Formerly, New Guinea, a UN Trust Territory and Papua, an Australian
dependency were administered by Australia under an Administrator as one poli-
tical and economic unit called Papua New Guinea. It achieved internal self-
government on December 1, 1973 and the country became independent on
September 16, 1975.
2.02      PNG covering an area of 1.2 mil.lion sq km is in the tropics, some
165 km north of Australia. The country comprises the eastern half of the
island of New Guinea (mainland); nine major islands including New Britain in
the Bismarck Archipelago; and a large number of smaller islands (Map 1).
The total land area is about 475,000 sq km, of which about 85% is mainland.
It is an area of unusual diversity with extremely rugged mountains, wide
valleys, large river systems, extensive jungles and coastal swamps. Much of
the country is mountainous, with ridges on the mainland rising to 4,600 m and
on the islands to 2,600 m.  Lowland areas are hot and humid, though the ex-
tensive highlands have cool temperatures.  Most areas have an average annual
rainfall of about 2,000 mm, but some exceed 4,400 mm.
2.03      The population at June 1975 was estimated at 2.75 million including
about 39,000 non indigenous (mostly Australians). It is estimated to increase
at about 3% per annum. About 75% of the population are rural dwellers out-
side the cash economy with a strong tribal village tradition based on sub-
sistence farming. About 55% of the population is concentrated in the High-
lands where in many parts the pressure on the available arable land is high
and any significant increases in agricultural output will need to come
through the introduction of higher yielding subsistence crops, diversifica-
tion of crop production and improvement in the incentives for people to grow
more than their subsistence requirements. In most coastal and island rural
areas, however, population densities are much lower and as a result there are
areas of unused land, some of which is highly fertile.
2.04      The non-indigenous population, although small, has played an
important role in PNG's development to date. In addition to being the main
source of capital and management in the private business/commercial sector
most of the senior middle and to a lesser extent junior management/technical
positions in Government were, up to a few years ago, almost exclusively
staffed by expatriates. However, since self-government there has been a
concerted effort to replace expatriates with Papua New Guineans at all levels.
Although Government's policy is to localize its staff as rapidly as possible
it has recognized the continuing need for considerable expatriate expertise
until existing and planned education/training programs start to meet the
needs for trained staff which will not be for a number of years. Many ex-
perienced expatriate staff have either left, or are about to leave the
permanent service shortly, as a result of the proposed termination of the
Australian Staff Assistance Group (ASAG) operation on 30 June 1976.



- 3 -
However, a number of these officers plan to remain at their desks and to
take up direct contracts with Government. As well, Government has had
little trouble recruiting replacement expatriate staff (from Australia,
New Zealand, UK, and the Philippines) but most of them are much less
experienced than those they are replacing.
2.05       The PNG economy is characterized by a large but slowly growing
subsistence agricultural sector and a rapidly expanding monetary sector.
Approximately 25% of the population is wholly engaged in activities of the
monetary sector which is focused on agriculture and livestock development,
mining, Government operations and services. During the 1960's the share
of the subsistence agriculture sector fell from 65% to 40% of GDP, and de-
clined sharply in 1972 to 20% of GDP when the Bougainville copper mine started
producing. The per capita GDP in FY74 was about K 262 (US$335) including the
high income expatriate sector. Excluding this sector per capita income was
estimated at K 120 (US$153).
B. Agricultural Sector
2.06       Agriculture is an important mainstay of PNG's economy.  The country
has ample land resources. Of its 47.5 million ha of land area, 15 million ha
(31%) is topographically, geologically and climatically suited for agriculture.
However, only about half of the arable land is put to agricultural use in one
form or another. About 90% of the population is directly dependent on agri-
culture (including subsistence farming) which up to FY1971/72 accounted for
almost all of PNG's export earnings. Since the Bougainville copper mine
started operating in early 1972, however, copper has become the country's most
important productive activity and export item and the share of agricultural
exports fell sharply to about 30% of PNG's total foreign exchange earnings in
1975. The commercial agriculture in PNG consists of (a) a rapidly expanding
sub-sector to service the demands of the growing urban population. Fruit and
vegetable, beef, pork, chicken and egg production have all increased signi-
ficantly and in 1974 were valued at about K 15 M and (b) a sub-sector geared
to production of export plantation crops which in 1974 were valued at
K 126.2 M. Of these copra and coconut oil accounts for 34%, coffee 27%, cocoa
31%, rubber 2%, tea 3% and oil palm 3%. In spite of the overriding importance
of copper as an export commodity it is important for PNG to minimise the risk
of dependence on a single commodity as the main source of foreign exchange.
At present the only alternative is by increasing output of all or some of the
above commodities. Thus by 1984 it is envisaged that the export earnings
from this sub-sector would be about K 300 M of which copra/coconut oil would
account for 15%, coffee 52%, cocoa 12%, rubber 2%, tea 5% and palm oil 14%.
Land Tenure
2.07       About 97% of all lands in PNG are held under traditional tenure
systems as "native land." About 1% is held by expatriates and the remainder



by Government (principally settlement schemes) and religious missions.
Agricultural development on "native land" has been hampered because of the
extreme difficulty in establishing agreed ownership and usage rights over
economically sized land parcels. Very little cash cropping is done on
these lands and when it is, it is generally on a small scale and as an ad-
junct to subsistence farming. Cash cropping on these lands has been the
most successful where it has been possible to rationalize land tenure to
permit individuals or small groups to use larger parcels of land. However,
most significant commercial agricultural development by smallholders to date
has taken place on Government lands many of which have been converted to
leasehold (99 years) for individual smallholders. Although Government is
empowered to acquire "native lands" for development purposes this (for
political reasons), is rarely done. Almost all such lands obtained by
Government are bought from clan or tribal groups only after complete agree-
ment is reached between all parties inzvolved. Government has yet to final-
ize many aspects of its land tenure policy, although it has been broadly
following the guidelines set by the report of the Commission of Inquiry
into Land Matters which was tabled in Parliament in May 1974.
Department of Primary Industries (DPI) 1/
2.08       The DPI is the main agency within the Government responsible
for formultation of agricultural development policy. It is also the main
anrm for execution of this policy. In addition to its central administra-
tive planning and coordinating role DPI is also responsible for country-
wide field operations the most important being extension and research.
These operations are coordinated by an Assistant Director (Policy Review
and Cocrdination'" and four area coordinators who have under them in the
field nineteen Provincial Rural Development Officers (PRDO) in charge of
extension services in the nineteen provinces. These in turn supervise the
activities of Rural Development Officers (RDO), Rural Development Techni-
cians (RDT) and Rural Development Assistant (RDA).  In addition there are
field clerical and other support staff including specialists such as area
veterinarians, area economists and special project managers. DPI has been
the main executing agency for all of the IDA agricultural projects (oil palm
and livestock) financed to date (paras 2.16 - 2.18) with responsibility for
providing (a) all extension services and farmer training; (b) sub-loan pre-
paration, appraisal and supervision in collaboration with the PNG Develop-
ment Bank (PNGDB), and (c) coordinating the activities of other Government
departments such as Public Works, Health and Education involved in the projects.
Field performance has been excellent but headquarters monitoring particularly
of project accounts and aspects of factory design and throughput can be
improved. Before independence it was feared that the efficiency of the DASF
operations would be greatly affected once independence was declared because
oL the loss of large numbers of experienced expatriate staff and the need for
it to rely heavily on inadequate numbers of young inexperienced local staff.
Although such losses did occur DPI's operational capability has not been
seriously impaired because (a) the losses were less than anticipated par-
ticularly amongst key middle and senior personnel; (b) Goverment has been
1/   This department was known until March 1976 as the Department of
Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries (DASF).



- 5 -
successful in its campaign to recruit replacement expatriate staff; and (c)
Government has been able to maintain its impetus in recruitment and training
of indigenous staff. Details of DPI organization, staffing and services are
described in Annex 1.
Agriculural Education and Training
2.09       Faced with sizeable local manpower requirements for its agricul-
tural development program Government has placed great emphasis on agricultural
education and training at all levels. The University of PNG (in association
with the University of Technology in Lae) offers degree training at the
Bachelor level while DPI itself operates 3 agricultural colleges. These
consist of the Vudal Agricultural Training College in New Britain which pro-
vides a 3 year Diploma course and the Agricultural Training Institutes at
Popondetta (PATI) and Mt. Hagen (HATI) which both offer a 2 year Certificate
course. In spite of increased annual output of agricultural technicians the
requests by Government (mainly DPI) for new graduates from these institu-
tions is expected to exceed the supply for at least five years.
2.10       Vocational training is also given to farmers at 22 training centers
around the country for periods of 3-6 weeks. Many of these include special-
ist extension refresher courses. IDA has recently negotiated an Education
project for board presentation in FY 77, in which provision for rural voca-
tional education has been made.
Agricultural Inputs and Marketing
2.11       The demand for agricultural inputs from the subsistence sector is
small and unpredictable. For this reason local traders in many areas are re-
luctant to carry stocks until a regular clientele is established. Thus the
DPI extension staff often finds itself involved in arranging for the supply
of agricultural inputs particularly for smallholders by assisting them in
placing orders and encouraging local traders or cooperatives to maintain
stocks. In these cases DPI at times negotiates prices and directly arranges
the purchase and transport of the supplies. Internal marketing of agricul-
tural consumer products is most inadequate particularly for meat, fish, fruit
and fresh vegetables. Government is taking steps to improve this situation
and in March 1975 financed a consultant study with funds from Credit 175-PNG.
This has provided guidelines on which to commence improvement of marketing
both at the small rural and at the larger urban levels. Government is in fact
already implementing many of the recommendations of this report. The market-
ing of agricultural export commodities is more organized through (a) rural
cooperatives which in some cases provide processing facilities; (b) traders
and exporters who in most cases are registered under export control boards as
with coffee annd cocoa; (c) a commodity board/stabilization fund as for copra
and (d) direct negotiations between producers and overseas buyers as with palm
oil in which the nucleus estate/factory companies are responsible for market-
ing of oil produced from both nucleus estate and smallholder farms. Govern-
ment operates an export produce inspection service and through its representa-
tion on the various export control boards and joint venture companies exer-
cises supervision of export price performance.



-6-
Agricultural Credit
2.12      Prior to the establishment of the PNGDB in 1965 access to rural
credit by indigenous smallholders was limited. Security requirements of com-
mercial banks in general precluded smallholder borrowing while the former
Native Loans Board and the Ex-Servicemen's Credit Scheme (both of which were
taken over by PNGDB) were restricted in the amount and type of lending pos-
sible. Thus the PNGDB was set up to cater primarily to the credit needs of
this sector. It commenced business in ]L967 and 1975 it had branches in seven
towns/cities, three sub-branches and eight agencies 1/ scattered through the
country.
2.13      Extension staff in DPI and Business Development Officers in the
Ministry of Labor, Industry and Commerce act as agents for PNGDB. In FY75
PNGDB approved a total of 2,403 loans to the value of K 10.2 M. Of these
1,278 loans valued at K 2.0 M were agricultural loans nearly all of which
(1,269, K 1.7 M) were for smallholders. Most of these small loans have been
for IDA financed oil palm and livestock development projects, in close col-
laboration with field staff of DPI, (para 2.08) for which PNGDB has been the
credit channel. At the inception of PNGDB few trained local personnel were
available and the bank depended heavily on expatriates. Since 1967 PNGDB has
been active in recruitment and training of local staff and today Papua New
Guineans comprise 82% of the total bank staff. However, in spite of the
success of this program PNGDB is likely to remain dependent upon expatriates
particularly at senior and middle management levels for some time. As with
DPI the PNGDB did suffer losses of experienced expatriate staff immediately
prior to and after independence but fortunately these losses were not large
enough to affect seriously the working efficiency of the institution. Further
details of Agricultural Credit and PNGDB's operations are given in paras 5.06
and 5.07 and in Annex 2.
Government Strategy for Agricultural Development
2.14       Government has not yet drawn up detailed plans for agricultural
development in PNG, although it is proposed that a longer-term National
Agricultural Plan be finalized during 1976. However, its broad policy is to
foster programs which will reduce inequalities in the distribution of incomes
and services between urban and rural areas with special emphasis on less-
developed rural areas and to reduce imports by increasing domestic produc-
tion and marketing of fresh foods. Government recognizes the need for an
increased effort to further expansion of village output and living standards
through well designed and integrated rural development programs. However,
it has still to establish a satisfactory methodology to ensure success of
such programs. To date with existing technology and extension techniques
it is difficult to generate interest among village farmers either individ-
ually or as groups in obtaining yield increases or expanding their areas of
arable land because of a lack of sustained economic motivation. This is
further hampered by the traditional clan land ownership and usage rights
which make it difficult for an individual to expand his holding without
1/   Or representative offices



-7-
agreement from his clan members. Government has prepared a modest rural
development program for the undeveloped Southern Highlands based on a commu-
nal or group development approach which would be a pilot effort on which to
base future development strategy. In contrast to the difficulty experienced
in establishing satisfactory strategies for in situ rural development Govern-
ment has had more success in its efforts at new smallholder/settler develop-
ment on lands not held under the traditional "native land" tenure rights
(para 2.07). While some of the smaller of these schemes did not achieve
stated objectives because of faulty planning or organization and management,
well-planned schemes such as the Hoskins Oil Palm Project have been very
successful. The programs have been strongly oriented to the establishment of
commercial smallholder agriculture and have concentrated mainly on growing
export commodities such as coffee, cocoa, rubber, tea, copra and more recent-
ly palm oil. With the earnings from copper they constitute the main source
of PNG's foreign exchange earnings. There is considerable potential for
increasing production of those commodities and Government is anxious to
exploit this potential as quickly as possible as an important means of
increasing its foreign exchange earnings.
2.15       Amongst these commodities oil palm has perhaps the greatest poten-
tial for rapid expansion. There are considerable areas of fertile unused
and virtually unpopulated lands in the coastal mainland and the islands which
are ideally suited to oil palm cultivation. PNG experience to date has shown
that the country has a comparative advantage for oil palm production against
almost all other producing countries. Because of the favorable combin-
ation of climate and soil type oil palm trees consistently come into produc-
tion a year to 1-1/2 years earlier and yield up to 20% more than the same
varieties grown in other parts of the world. With IDA assistance Government
has developed a highly successful strategy based on a nucleus estace/factory
company (owned jointly by Government and an overseas investor) coupled with
a large smallholder component (paras 2.16 - 2.18). It proposes that for the
time being at least further development along these proven lines will be an
important component of its agricultural development strategy. Although some
alternative commercial crops such as coconut and cocoa could be gr.own in most
of these areas they are less attractive than oil palm which has a lower sus-
ceptibility to pests and diseases coupled with an attractive return on
investment.
Oil Palm Development Program and Bank Group Participation
2.16       In order to diversify its agricultural base the then PNG Admin-
istration in 1967 sponsored the development of an oil palm industry. First
development occurred in the Hoskins area in New Britain on land purchased
by the Government. The basis for development was a "nucleus" estate of
some 4,000 ha jointly owned by Government and an overseas company (Harrisons
and Crossfield Ltd.) operating a central processing factory company to pro-
cess and market both estate production and production from associated settler
and village development. This smallholder oil palm development was under-
taken by Government with financial assistance from IDA (Credits 137 and
175-PNG) and provided for some 1,560 settlers and villagers planting up to
6,000 ha of oil palm. Generally, field performance and execution of this



- 8 -
project have been excellent although heavier and earlier yielding than pro-
jected created problems in terms of' the central factory in-capacity to handle
the crop. There are now 1,750 smallholders with a total planted area of
6,050 ha. A large percentage (37%) of those have in fact already repaid their
farm loans to the lending agency, PNGDB, ahead of schedule.
2.17       The secondary benefits generated by the project are readily visi-
ble. Under the traditional "Wantolc" 1/ system the oil palm settlers support
at least one other family on their farms and also remit a proportion of
their earnings to clan groups in their home Provinces. Although the location
of the township of Kimbe is wholly due to the oil palm project, its subse-
quent growth has had a notable impact on local employment opportunities
and the development of ancilliary enterprises. Largely reflecting the growth
of Kimbe, the population of West New Britain has increased by 25% over the
past 4 years (from 60,800 to an esitimated 75,800 in 1975). Starting from
nothing, a flourishing banking activity has developed in the area and during
the course of 1975, about 6,000 new savings accounts were opened - a further
measure of the area's development. Cargo passing through the deep water port
at Kimbe has increased from 10,157 tons in FY72 to 32,980 tons in FY75. With
the ability to accept overseas cargo vessels in addition to the extremely
expensive coastal shipping, the Kiinbe district has now the advantage of
considerable freight savings. The effect of this has been an increase in
smallholder coconut production from 300 to 3,000 tons of copra per annum by
providing a ready outlet for direct export.
2.18       While longer-term plans for the future development of the oil palm
industry will be detailed in the National Agricultural Plan now in preparation,
existing stated Government plans call for substantial oil palm development in
recognition of the comparative advantage that PNG has in producing this crop
(para 2.15). In addition to the present project development in the Popondetta
area, further development has already occurred in the Bialla area of New
Britain.  A joint-venture "nucleus"' estate of 2,000 ha is being developed by
Government in partnership with a Japanese company and preparations are well-
advanced for a smallholder scheme involving some 1,000 settlers planting about
4,000 ha of oil palm. About 2,000 ha has been planted on the nucleus estate
but further development of the overall project has been delayed pending
resolution by Government and the overseas company of satisfactory arrangements
for processing and management. In addition Government has under consideration
further settlement schemes on the Soi Navo and Kapiura land areas adjacent to
the existing Hoskins and Bialla developments. DPI has observation and trial
plots in many other areas of PNG and results to date indicate that several of
these areas have excellent potential for further oil palm development. Annex
3 gives further details of oil palm development and research.
I/ "Wantok" (pidgin for "one talk") is a system of traditional affinity
found throughout PNG. The system is characterized by five recurrent
features: common language, common kinship group, common geographical
area, common social/religious association and a common belief in the
principle of mutual reciprocity.



III. PROJECT AREA AND FORMULATION
A. Area
3.01       The proposed project would be located in mainland PNG at Popondetta,
the administrative center of the Northern Province. Commencing in the mid-
fifties, this area was the center of a settlement scheme which focused on the
production of cocoa by local villagers and expatriate ex-servicemen. Although
many farms thrived initially, the crop has been almost wiped out since 1968 by
insect pests for which no satisfactory counter has been found. With few
exceptions the settlements became insolvent, there was default in loan repay-
ments and the areas were vacated, their titles reverting to the Government.
Reflecting this, cocoa production for the Province has fallen from an estimated
3,200 tons in 1967-68 to 350 tons in 1972-75. Accordingly it is envisaged
that 800 ha of these ruined cocoa areas would be planted to oil palm under the
proposed project. In addition, 2,700 ha of new land would be cleared and 2,400
ha of this planted for new smallholder settlements while 2,400 ha of village
lands would be converted to oil palm for existing villagers.
3.02       DPI pilot trials (now 8 years old) have shown that oil palm is
well adapted to the Popondetta area and unlike cocoa is free from devastating
pests and diseases. Climatically the area is similar to Hoskins but soils at
Popondetta, although quite fertile, are generally lighter. It is expected that
fertilizer requirements will be above those for the on-going project to sus-
tain high-yielding oil palm.
3.03       The population of the Northern Province as of June 30, 1975 was
estimated at around 75,000 of which Popondetta and its surrounding villages
and hamlets accounted for about 36,000. Population density for the Province
of 8.3 per sq. mile places the area amongst the least populated in PNG. Most
of the villagers participating in the project would be under the Land Tenure
Conversion/settlement scheme whereby individuals surrender communally owned
land for division and allocation under individual leasehold title.
3.04       The Popondetta area has a well developed infrastructure.  A good
two-lane highway of 50 km runs from Popondetta eastwards, passing the Girua
airfield and terminating at Oro Bay. West from Popondetta this highway ex-
tends for 60 km to Kokoda. There is a network of low class access roads
north and west of Popondetta. These roads, which were built to serve the
cocoa settlements, are now neglected and overgrown. Being flat, the terrain
presents no problems to road construction and gravel and rock are abundantly
available. Communications outside the project areas are by sea or by air.
To serve the Popondetta area there is a new deep-sea shipping wharf at Oro
Bay and there are large wartime bitumen air fields at Embi and Girua.
3.05       In the Popondetta area, schools and aidposts are presently located in
many, but not all, settlements. Government services dealing with settlements
such as DPI and Department of Natural Resources are concentrated in the township.



- 10 -
The Popondetta Agricultural Training Institute (PATI) is located 1 km north
of the town (para 2.09) and is administered by DPI. There is a branch
office of PNGDB in the town, established in 1974.
B. Formulation
3.06       The formulation of the proposed project has been based upon the
highly successful smallholder oil palm settlement at Hoskins financed by
Credits 137 and 175-PNG. Experience! from this development established the
suitability of coastal PNG for oil palm cultivation and the suitability of oil
palm as a smallholder crop and that with effective guidance, even settlers
without previous experience in tree crop agriculture have been able to easily
meet the management requirements associated with successful development.
Further, oil palm as a cash crop has been shown to be a significant income
earner for smallholders (as well as a significant foreign exchange earner for
the country).
3.07      On-Farm Development:  The proposed farm plan and the credit package
provided to each settler family for farm establishment was guided by the fol-
lowing major considerations:
(a) the farm unit should afford the settler family the opportunity
for self-sustained growth of per capita income roughly in line
with the projected growth of PNG's commercial agricultural
sector;
(b) to be in line with the Government's decision that there should
be cost recovery with no subsidy for on-farm inputs or any grant
aid;
(c) the settlement project as a whole should be economically
viable and, so that with appropriate shadow pricing for wages
and the cost of extension/social services and roads costed
fully, the rate of return on the investment should be not
less than 10% while with appropriate allocation of these lat-
ter costs it should be not less than 12% (para 7.07);
(d) need to provide for a reserve area for subsequent planting
(with the settlers own resources) to establish a replanting
cycle needed to stabilize farm income after year 10 when FFB
yields are expected to decline;
(e) the farm unit should be viable even if the expectation that
under the traditional "wantok" system it should provide sub-
sistence for at least one other family of the settler's clan
group; and
(f) that there is a need to provide some buffer against price
and yield fluctuations to ensure sufficient incentive to
keep settlers working their blocks at all times.



- 11 -
Project formulation recognizes that financial viability for individual units
is possible with about 4 ha planted to oil palm with a 2 ha reserve area.
Holdings of this dimension, supplemented by small subsistence gardens, have
been shown to provide sufficient levels of incentive to attract the required
inputs of family labor. In this regard it is expected that family incomes as
a result of the proposed project would be raised from an estimated subsistence
level of K 516 per annum to about K 1,500 per annum at year 13. Project reve-
nues would enable the full recovery of all farm development costs.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01       The proposed project would comprise one part of an overall area
development program for Popondetta which would be directed primarily towards
the establishment of 9,600 ha of oil palm. The program would comprise (a) a
4,000 ha nucleus estate; (b) 5,600 ha for smallholders; and (c) the estab-
lishment of a palm oil factory to process the fresh fruit bunches (FFB) from
both the estate and the smallholders. The nucleus estate/factory complex will
be financed jointly by Government and the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC). The CDC board has approved this project in principle and their legal
advisers have drawn up documents for signing (see paras 4.27 and 8.02 regard-
ing conditions of loan effectiveness). In anticipation of this CDC has already
started field work at Popondetta. Annex 4 gives details of the nucleus estate/
factory complex.
4.02       The proposed project would focus on the development of the small-
holder component of the program as follows:
(a)   establishment of 600 farms each of 6 ha with 4 ha of oil palm
for new settlers selected from all parts of PNG, and assistance
for establishment of 4 ha of oil palm to 800 existing settlers
and/or villagers (Base cost US$3.8 M);
(b)   provision for the above of long-term credit facilities to
smallholders through PNGDB;
(c)   provision of agricultural extension and visiting inspection
services (Base cost US$2.4 M);
(d)   establishment of a Government owned company for transportation
of smallholder FFB (Base cost US$1.0 M);
(e)   provision of a suitable road network to service the project area
and improvement of other infrastucture - health, education and
welfare services (Base Cost US$3.8 M); and
(f)   provision of technical assistance for Project Management and for
training field officers of PNGDB and DPI in smallholder credit
operations (Base Cost US$0.8 M).



- 12 -
B. Detailed Features
4.03       Land Clearing:  Saleable timber would be removed from the forests
in the settlement areas. Clearing of the remaining timber is relatively inex-
pensive and Government would arrange for prefelling at a cost of about K 31
per ha. On each new settler's block of 6 ha, 4.5 ha would be felled prior to
the settler's occupancy. The settler himself would then brush, stack, burn
and complete the clearing of the land. Four hectares of the cleared land on
each block would be planted in oil palm and the other 0.5 ha used for subsis-
tence gardening and housing. Subsequently, the settler would have to clear
the 1.5 ha remaining on his block for supplementary cash crops or for further
oil palm planting. Prefelling would be carried out by contract labor brought
from outside the settlement areas. Some of these laborers would eventually
receive land allocations. Prefelling would not be necessary in land blocks
held by existing settlers or on village holdings as these lands have already
been under cultivation. For new settlers the land clearing would be com-
pleted in the year prior to planting. The land clearing program for the
smallholder development would commence in FY77 and be completed in FY81.
4.04       Planting Program:  Each new settler would plant 4 ha of oil palm
under supervision of the DPI extension staff during his first year of occu-
pancy with planting material grown by the nuclues estate company. Existing
settlers 1/ would plant up to 4 ha of their holding in the same year.
Villagers would establish their plantings in two annual installments of 2 ha
as they would not, on account of existing commitments, be in a position to
devote adequate family labor to complete a 4 ha oil palm planting in one year.
The nucleus estate and smallholders' plantings would be completed in FY82.
Details of the planting program for both smallholders and the nucleus estate
are given in Annex 3, Table 3.
4.05       Roads and Infrastructure:  A good road network to serve the pro-
ject area is essc-tial for the successful development of the project. Al-
though Popondetta already has some road infrastructure built to service the
old cocoa settlements the access roads are neglected and over-grown. Thus
about 98 km of those serving the proposed oil palm settlements would be up-
graded. In addition about 122 km of new roads would be constructed to serve
those growers outside the cocoa area, About 88 km of the roads have been
designed as access roads providing for about 50 vehicles a day while 132 km
have been designed to a lower standard classified as subdivision roads to
service the individual blocks. Details of the proposed roads program are in
Annex 5.
4.06       Housing would be provided under the project for all settlers.
Each house, complete with water tank, would cost about K 700 excluding labor
which would be contributed by the settler. Houses would be constructed
according to a standard low-cost design and would be built from sawn hard
wood, available locally. Until house construction is completed, new settlers
would be accommodated in temporary faLcilities provided under the project.
1/   Mostly farmers with cocoa crops affected by pests and diseases.



- 13 -
4.07        An integral part of the development program involves the provi-
sion of social amenities for settlers. It is proposed therefore that funds
would be made available under the project to up-grade and expand to usual
Ct,vernment rural standards, local community centers, schools, markets, trade
stores, police posts and health facilities. Details of social infrastructure
requirements are shown in Annex 5, Table 2 and for staffing in Annex 6,
Table 1. Benefits from these project expenditures would have a community
impact extending far beyond the settlers alone. It is estimated that 70%
of these investments would benefit villagers outside the confines of the oil
palm project.
4.08       Oil Palm Establishment:  The nucleus estate would, under contract
with Government, supply the smallholders with their oil palm seedling require-
ments. The seed would be of high quality Dura x Pisifera cross (Tenera), and
obtained from DAMI Research Station at Kimbe. Seedlings raised on the nucleus
estate would be sold to the smallholders at an estimated price of K 1.20 each.
A leguminous cover crop would be sown before planting the oil palm seedlings.
An assurance has been obtained from Government that the nucleus estate company
would provide smallholders with suitable planting material.
4.09       Fertilizers:  The specific fertilizer requirements of oil palm in
the project area are still unknown. However, from experience with oil palm
elsewhere and with coconuts in the project area, indications are that despite
the high initial fertility of the soil, some fertilizer applications might
well improve yields (Annex 3, para 10). Thus provision has been made for
fertilizer use by the farmers. In order to minimize any risk of reducing FFB
yields through nutritional problems during the critical period of the first
years of growth, an initial "shotgun" fertilizer application of 42 kg per ha
(value K 22) is proposed. Application after year three would be to meet the
needs of a growing and producing palm determined from foliar analysis.
4.10      Pests and Diseases:  Contingency plans have been prepared to counter
possible outbreaks of oil palm pests and diseases. In such an event chemicals
and spraying equipment would be supplied to the field project management who
would be responsible for application. The smallholders utilizing these serv-
ices would be expected to pay for them on the basis of cost of chemicals plus
labor. If necessary credit would be provided through PNGDB (Para 4.19) to
cover these costs as part of the on-farm development credit package. Terms
and conditions of this credit package are given in Para 4.25.
4.11       Pollination:  Assisted pollination needed to obtain maximum yields
in the first four to ten years of production is required. Suitable supplies
of pollen would be obtained locally and would be provided free of charge by
the extension service to the smallholders.
4.12       Extension and Research:  In addition to providing extension ser-
vices and visiting inspection services specifically to assist smallholders
in developing their oil palm as at Hoskins, it is also proposed to provide
additional extension staff to assist the smallholders to develop their food



- 14 -
gardens. This service would be available to all villagers within the project
area. Details of Extension Services Staffing and Costs are shown in Annex 6,
Table 2. Infrastructure requirements are given in Annex 5, Table 3. Assuran-
ces have been obtained that Government would review annually the requirements
for the extension staff to service the increased demand for food cropping
expected to be generated by the oil palm development program and appoint
additional staff as and when required.
4.13       Although it is not proposed to finance oil palm research under the
project a small research program specific to the problems of oil palm culti-
vation in Popondetta particularly fertilizer requirements and tree spacing
(for both smallholders and nucleus estate) would be necessary. Government
has agreed that this work will be financed from its own budget. The logical
site for the program would be the nuc:Leus estate and assurances have been
obtained that the nucleus estate would provide for oil palm research and the
results of such research would be reaclily available to all smallholders in
the area.
4.14       FFB Processing, Transportat:ion and Pricing:  Although the project
would not provide funds for financing the palm oil factory it is important to
the project that the factory be constructed in time to process fruit from
the first plantings of nucleus estate and smallholders (mid 1980) and that
the milling efficiency be such to ensure maximum yields of oil and kernel.
This in turn will enable maximum returns per ton of FFB to project smallhol-
ders. The FFB price paid by the factory for smallholders fruit, would be
based on a formula agreed upon between Government and the factory management.
The formula would be based on that currently in use at Hoskins (Annex 7, Table
4) which accounts for milling charges of FFB and storage, tax, distribution,
freight, insurance, brokerage commissions, and shipping losses for oil and
kernel. The FFB price is reviewed monthly by the Marketing Division of DPI
and adjusted for any changes in the formula input. During negotiations the
general criteria to be used for the pricing of project smallholder FFB have
been agreed upon and an assurance given that any changes in these criteria will
be discussed with the Bank. Under its agreement with Government, CDC would be
responsible for mill design, construction and management. CDC is well expe-
rienced in this field and their engineers have benefitted from their knowledge
of the problems encountered by the Hoskins mill. CDC have discussed their
plans for the Popondetta factory with the Bank and it is evident that they
propose to use the best equipment available. The construction schedule has
been phased taking into account proposed smallholder and estate FFB production
with the result that there is every indication that factory operation will
commence on time and will run at optimum levels (Annex 3, Chart 2).
4.15       Transport Company:  Efficient transportation of the smallholder's
FFB to the factory is an essential requirement if there is to be high quality
oil production and optimum returns to smallholders. Taking regard of the
administrative and financial inputs associated with this activity, it is
proposed to establish a separate Government owned transport company under
the project. In addition to organizing pick up and delivery of FFB, this



- 15 -
company would also be responsible for maintaining records of individual FFB
output and for disbursing FFB payments after deduction of transport costs and
PNGDB loan dues. A standard transport charge would be made to all producers
irrespective of distance from the factory. It is intended that the amount
charged 1/ would be sufficient to allow the company to make a profit of not
less than 12% and not more than 15% on capital employed, which would be about
2 to 5% above the anticipated borrowing rate by the company (Annex 7). It is
Government's intention that smallholders be given the opportunity to buy out
its interest in the company. Until this is possible, Government proposes that
excess profits would be paid as bonuses to the smallholders on the basis of
the amounts of FFB produced. Assurances have been received during negotia-
tions that prior to the first production of FFB by smallholders Government
will establish a Transport Company whose capital structure and operating
policies shall be satisfactory to the Bank. It is intended that equity sub-
scriptions by the Government would be equal to at least 50% of the total
capital requirements of the company.
4.16       Staff Transportation:  Funds would be provided to permit vehicle
hire from the Plant and Transport Authority (PTA) to cover the movement of
extension and social services personnel employed under the project. The PTA
is a statutory authority established by Government to meet the transportation
requirements of all operating departments countrywide. Since it was esta-
blished in 1973 no Government Departments are permitted to own and main-
tain their own vehicles, plant or equipment (Annex 5, Para 25, Table 4). 2/
4.17       Technical Assistance:  Technical assistance funds totaling
US$675,000 (base cost) would be provided for employment of key expatriate
personnel, consisting of a Project Manager Field (6 years at US$38,000/year),
a Project Accountant (6 years at US$32,000/year) for the smallholder manage-
ment/coordination unit (paras 5.02, 5.03) and a Transport Manager at
US$25,000/year, a Financial Controller at US$23,000/year and a Superintendent
Field at US$19,000/year for the last four years of the disbursement period
for the smallholder transport company.
4.18       In order to help DPI and PNGDB improve their performance in small-
holder credit operations, US$89,000 would be provided for a consultant for 2
years to establish training programs for field staff (Terms of Reference for
this consultant is given in Annex 2). Also US$76,000 would be allocated to
enable key DPI and PNGDB field staff to make short -term visits to small-
holder credit operations in other countries. Terms of Reference for the
Project Accountant, Transport Manager and.Financial Controller and technical
assistance costs are shown in Annex 6. The estimates for technical assist-
ance include salaries only and are based on actual salaries currently being
1/   Based on Hoskins experience FFB transport charges for Popondetta have
been estimated (January 1976) at about K 5.50/ton FFB.
2/   During negotiations the Bank was informed that Government is in the
process of reorganizing PTA. The result of this reorganization may
be that certain departments will be allowed to own vehicles.



- 16 -
paid to expatriates in PNG with similar qualifications and experience. The
other non-salary costs - allowances, housing, transport, etc. have been
included in the overall budget of the institution responsible for employ-
ing the consultants.
4.19       Long-Term Credit to Smallholders:  Cash savings of most partici-
pants are insignificant so financial assistance provided to smallholders
would therefore cover 100% of the costs of settlement, land clearing, housing
and oil palm development up to the first harvesting year. These costs would
range from-K 1,667 for village holdings, K 1,761 for existing settlements,
to K 2,892 for new settlements (Annex 8, Table 2). As new settlers would in-
variably not have other sources of income they would be given an additional
K 500 total towards living expenses during the development period. PNGDB
would manage the smallholder credit operations as in the Hoskins project
(para 5.06).
C. Environmental Impact
4.20       Forests in the project area and unproductive cocoa would be re-
placed by properly cared for oil palm plantings. Wildlife is not abundant
and none of the project area forests are designated as game or nature re-
serves. Road specifications have been designed to minimize soil erosion and
disturbance to river flows. The palm oil mill would be situated in the
nucleus estate far removed from the villages and settlements. At the mill
adequate care will be taken to incinerate empty bunches and to deal with
mill effluent by means of sludge trenches or other adequate technology.
D. Cost Estimates
4.21       The estimated total cost over the 7 year development period of the
project is US$18.52 M (K 14.58 M), of which US$ 11.34 M (K 8.93 M) is foreign
exchange.  Total project cost components are shown below and in Annex 8.
Costs were estimated on the basis of prices determined at the time of ap-
praisal in February 1976.  Physical contingencies have been provided for by
adding 5% 1/ to the base costs of all items except roads, for which 20% has
been added. Price increases that are expected for equipment items are 9% for
1976, 8% for 1977-79 and 7% thereafter. Expected price increases for civil
works are 13% for 1976, 12% for 1977-79 and 10% thereafter. Local expenses
are expected to increase at 9% per annum.
1/   By comparison with similar projects in other countries the 5%
physical contingency is low. However, because it has been derived
from sound data obtained from the Hoskins project, the 5% figure is
considered adequate.



- 17 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total        Foreign
------- K'OOO --------       ------ US$'OOO -------       Exchango
1. Smallholder Development
A. On-Farm
Housing                      245      735       980       311       934    1245           75
Land Preparation               72      72       144         91       92      183          50
Planting Material            202      619       821       257       786    1043           75
Tools & Equipment              -      259       259         -       329      329         100
Fertilizer                     -       31        31                  39       39         100
Pest Control                   -       84        84                 107      107         100
B. Other
Renoval Expenses               23      67        90         29       85      114          75
Subsist./Living Allowance   207       138       345        263      175      438          40
Survey, Legal Fees             80      45       125        102       57      159          36
Rent                           72      -         72         91       -        91          -
Sub-total                        901    2050      2951       1144     2604    3748           69
2. Transport Company
Houses & Buildings             44     131       175         56      166      222          75
Trucks & Equipment             -      300       300         -       381      381         100
Staff Salaries                148     212       360        188      269      457          59
Sub-total                        192     643       835        244      816    1060           77
3. Extension Service
Houses & Buildings             80     238       318        102      302      404          75
Staff Salaries                781      -        781        992       -       992          -
Sub-total                        861     238      1099       1094      302    1396           22
4. Social Services
Houses & Buildings            100     301      1048        949      382      509          75
Staff Salaries                647      -        647        822       -       822          -
Sub-total                        861     238      1099       1094      302    1396           29
5. Vehicle. EQuinment &
Machinery Hire                   257     774      1031        326       983    1309          76
6. Technical Assistance              60      540      600         76       686     762          90
7. Roads                            578    1228      1806        734      1560    2294          68
Base Cost Estimates             3596    5774      9370       4567     7333   11900           62
=sfl    ..=       -.=.. =.. flW1  =.mm.                     as
Physical Contingencies           266     474       740        338      602      940          64
Expected Price Increases        1792    2677      4469       2276     3400    5676           60
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             5654    8925    14579        7181    11335   18516           61
=---    =555    ==I:a=      5=5=    555===    =55-=5
Farmers' Labor
(including contingencies)      2732       -       2732      3470        -      3470
Total                           8386    8925    17311       10651    11335   21986



- 18 -
E. Financing
4.22      Financing of the project would be in about the following amounts
and proportions:
Financing - (US$M)
PNGDB       Gov't.        Bank         Total
Components                Amt.   %    Amt.   %    Amt.   %    Amt. %_ _
Smallholder Development        1.76   30      -     -    4.02   70   5.78  100
Smallholder Transport Comp.    -    -        0.44   24   1.42   76   1.86  100
Extension & Social Services    -    -        3.05   49   3.14   51   6.19  100
Technical Assistance             -    -      0.11   10   0.97   90   1.08  100
Roads                            -    -      1.16   32   2.45   68   3.61  100
TOTAL (US$M)              1.76    9    4.76   26  12.00   65  18.52  100
4.23      The proposed Bank loan would be for $12.0 M of which $11.3 M
would be for foreign exchange requirements and the balance for local currency
financing of the additional agriculturaLl extension staff required by the
project.
4.24      The loan would be issued to the Government on the current Bank terms,
with Government assuming the foreign exchange risk. In the past, the Govern-
ment charged PNGDB a nominal interest rate of 1-1/4% on all IDA funds onlent
to it for smallholder development. This was reasonable at a time when PNGDB
was in its infancy, but Government has now indicated that PNGDB should not
receive such subsidies. Therefore the Bank's financing of smallholder devel-
opment (70%) would be onlent to PNGDB aLt 9%. Since smallholders would be
charged an interest rate of 11%, the estimated spread 1/ would be adequate to
cover PNGDB's incremental expenses in administering the project (Annex 8,
table 1). 2/ PNGDB would repay the Government loan over a period of 16 years
(including a grace period of 7 years) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The
conclusion of an agreement satisfactory to Bank would be a condition of effec-
tiveness. PNGDB's contribution to project financing would represent the
local cost component of smallholder development.  PNGDB's resources would be
adequate to meet these requirements but an assurance has been obtained from
Government that it would provide PNGDB with additional funds as may be neces-
sary for on-farm development.  The smallholders' contribution to the project
1/   Since PNGDB would use its own funds to finance 30% of smallholder devel-
opment cost and such funds have been costed at 8% in the PNGDB cashflow
in Annex 8, Table 1, the blend cost to PNGDB on the total funds would
be 8.7%, thus giving it a spread of 2.3%.
2/   Although PNGDB would earn any significant surplus from this project,
Government considers that this would be adequate since PNGDB enjoys
a very good spread on its present operations (average spread now is
about 9%).



- 19 -
would consist of their labor, priced at the ruling wage rate, valued at
US$3.4 M over the project development period. This has not been included
in the cost estimates.
4.25      The Government's policy has been to charge lower rates of interest
to Papua New Guineans in order to make loans attractive to them and to help
the transition from subsistence agriculture to a monetized economy. The pre-
vailing annual rates of interest in PNG for lending at the time of appraisal
were: normal commercial loans - 11.5%; larger commercial loans - 12% and
over; loans to Papua New Guineans (including oil palm loans) - 8%, while
treasury bill and deposit rates varied around 8% per annum. The present
rate of inflation in PNG is estimated at 9% per annum. The PNGDB Board
reviews interest rates annually and increases are automatically passed to
ongoing loans. 1/ Under the present project onlending rates for smallholders
would be increased from 8% to 11% per annum. The loan periods for the new
settlers would be 13 years, while the period for the existing settlers and
villagers would be 9 years. All loans would have a grace period of 4 years
(Annex 8, Table 2 for smallholder cash flows). Terms and conditions for
PNGDB lending under the project were agreed during negotiations and an assur-
ance was obtained that these would not be amended without prior consultation
with the Bank.
4.26      Government's contribution to the project would represent the local
currency costs of financing the smallholder transport company, social and
extension services, hire of vehicles for social and extension services, roads
and technical assistance with the exception of those local extension staff
salaries which would be financed by the Bank loan.
4.27      The balance of the oil palm development program, which includes
the construction of the processing unit and establishment of the nucleus
estate (para 4.01 and Annex 4), would be financed jointly by Government and
CDC. Total cost of this component is estimated at US$27.6 M of which CDC
would finance about US$11 M and the Government would finance the balance.
Proportions of debt and equity have not yet been determined. As a condition
of loan effectiveness of the project, it is proposed that agreements between
Government and CDC covering the establishment and financing of the factory
and nucleus estate companies will have been concluded to the satisfaction of
the Bank. Before making a final commitment for its part of the program CDC
will require Bank approval of the smallholder project.
1/   The initial lending rate for smallholders under IDA Credits 137-PNG and
175-PNG was 6%. This was gradually increased to 8% by 1975 and subsequent
to appraisal, interest rates have been raised as follows for term loans:
Papua New Guineans - range of 8% to 11%;
Others - 5% below equivalent commercial bank rate which is
currently about 12%.



- 20 -
F. Procurement
4.28      The procurement of all items for smallholders' on-farm development,
involving fertilizers, pesticides, tools, equipment and housing materials
(US$1.72 M) would be in small lots.   Total expenditures of these items would
average US$215,000 per annum over the full development period and would in
no one year total more than about US$467,000. Under these circumstances in-
ternational bidding would not be appropriate. Building construction for ex-
tension staff, social workers and the transport company (US$1.14 M) would be
phased over 8 years, averaging about US$142,900 per annum with a maximum of
US$318,000, and would also be unsuitable for international bidding. For all
the above items contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding advertised locally in accordance with local government procurement pro-
cedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Except for some housing materials,
all the above items will have to be imported. International suppliers are
well represented in PNG, competition between them is keen, and provision of
spare parts is adequate.  The twelve vehicles proposed for the smallholder
transport company (valued at US$305,000) to be supplied over a five year
period would be acquired from local truck agencies which operate competitive-
ly in PNG. The road construction and upgrading (US$2.29 M) is planned over
a four year period with an annual expenditure of approximately US$573,000
split into a small number of contracts. This rate of expenditure would not
attract overseas contractors to tender. However, there are two local con-
tractors with foreign backing who are qlaite capable of undertaking the work.
The bridge works (about US$260,000) would be designed by the PWD and offered
to tender. The new road-works (US$1.37 M) would be designed by the PWD and
surveyed by the Lands Department. The upgrading work (about US$665,000) is
more in the nature of maintenance work iand would be performed by the PWD who
are best equipped to carry out this type of work. The supply of gravel for
road upgrading would be undertaken by local contractors. Recruitment of
personnel under technical assistance and consultants for visiting inspection
services would follow Bank Group guidelines for hiring consultants.
G. Disbursements
4.29      It is proposed that the Bank loan would be disbursed over an eight
year period (Annex 9). This time lapse recognizes the usual constraints
associated with tree crop agriculture which, for the proposed project, would
specifically involve (a) a maximum planting rate of 2,500 ha per annum, given
the local supply of planting materials; (b) a total planting requirement of
9,600 ha including the nucleus estate; and (c) a plant immaturity period of
2-1/2 to 3 years. Collectively, these factors dictate that the minimum
development period of the project would be about 7 years and an additional
one year provision in the disbursement period would accommodate organization
and management limits which are expected to occur in relation to new
settlement.
4.30      The Bank would reimburse against statements of expenditure for 70%
of loans granted to oil palm smallholders by PNGDB and 75% for funds expended



- 21 -
by Government on the transport company and for payments for building housing,
and vehicle/machinery hire for extension and social services while 50% of the
salaries paid to local extension staff would be reimbursable. In addition
tie foreign exchange cost associated with technical assistance would be fully
reimbursed as well as 70% of road contracts and force accounts expenditures.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01      Government has proposed an organizational structure which will
enable maximum flexibility in the management of the project by ensuring
(a) full coordination between the line departments involved in the project;
(b) ready access to funds through a central budget allocation, and (c) an
effective channel of communication between head office and field officers.
These proposals are based on the experience with the organization set up to
manage the small-holder development under Credits 137 and 175-PNG. However,
under the proposed new organization those aspects relating to cost control,
accounting, reporting and project monitoring would be given more attention
than under the Hoskins arrangement. Details of the proposed Government
organization are shown in Annex 10, Chart 3.
5.02      A recently established Project Management Committee (PMC) under
the Minister of Primary Industry, would have overall responsibility for the
carrying out of the project and the formulation of policy. The Secretary for
Primary Industry would be its Chairman. PMC would comprise the Secretary for
Finance, the Secretary for National Resources, the Director of the National
Works Authority, the Managing Director of PNGDB, the Technical Director for
the project and the Provincial Commissioner of Northern Province. A Project
Coordinator (PC) who would act as the executive officer of the PMC, would
be responsible to the PMC for for day to day headquarters project administra-
tion. He would be the Assistant Secretary for Finance in charge of the
Office of Project Coordination (OPC) which has been established to service
all National Development Projects. Funds for the project other than salaries
for line department officers would be annually appropriated in the National
Development Projects Division of the Appropriation Act. The PC would adminis-
ter these funds (with the exception of farm development loans) in accordance
with budgets and work programs as approved by the PMC.
5.03      A Technical Director (TD) oil palm projects, a senior specialist
officer in DPI, would be responsible for the physical aspects of project
implementation. He would have direct authority over the Project Manager
Field (PM) and he would liaise between and cooperate with the line depart-
ments involved in the project at headquarters level. He would also cooperate
with specialists and consultants in fields such as extension, training, plan-
tation management, oil mill technology, marketing and transport management.
Overall supervison of field activities would be the responsibility of the
PM. He would be a DPI staff member and head of the DPI field team in



- 22 -
Popondetta. The PM would report to the PC on all matters relating to project
financing and to the TD on extension staff and technical matters.
5.04      The PMC would meet at least four times a year to review and update
project development plans, phasing and work programs. Once a work program
has been established and agreed to the TD and the PC would work directly with
the PM to carry out the program. The PC's main duties would be to liaise
with the various departments involved in the project to ensure approval of the
project expenditures incurred by these departments in line with the work pro-
gram. (A project implementation schedule is presented in Annex 3, Chart 2.)
Any major changes in the work program would require agreement of the TD and
the PMC chairman. The PC would also be responsible for coordinating project
reporting, monitoring and cost control. In addition to these duties related
to smallholder development the TD and the PC would be ideally qualified to
represent Government on the boards of the nucleus estate, the factory and the
FFB transport companies. Assurances have been obtained that the TD and the
PC would be Government appointed Directors (or Alternate Directors to the
Secretaries of Primary Industry and Finance) to the boards of these companies
during during the period of project implementation. The PC would be assisted
in his duties by a Project Accountant appointed specifically to the OPC under
the project (para 4.17). Assurancies have been obtained that a project Manager
Field and a Project Accountant with qualifications and experience acceptable
to the Bank be appointed within 6 and 9 months of project signing.
B. DPI
5.05      In addition to supplying the PMC chairman, the TD and the PM, the
DPI would be responsible for extension services. The composition, duties
and deployment of these services have been based on the successful Hoskins
experience (Annex 3). In addition to their technical and advisory functions
the extension officers will, as at Hoskins, act as field agents for the
PNGDB in appraising and supervising loans to smallholders (Annex 1, para 12).
C. PNGDB
5.06      PNGDB would be the channel for the smallholder on-farm development
credit (paras 4.19, 4.24, 4.25). In this activity it would liaise closely with
the DPI officers acting as its fie:Ld agents and with the proposed Smallholder
FFB Transport Company (para 4.15) responsible for smallholder accounting
services.
5.07      Although PNGDB's performance under the previous IDA smallholder
loans (para 1.03) has been satisfactory some improvements are necessary to
strengthen its operations. These are discussed briefly below and in more
detail in Annex 2.



- 23 -
(a) PNGDB's financial position requires strengthening. Although
the Board Policy Statement refers to the maintenance of re-
serves consistent with prudent financial management, it had
a cumulative debit balance on Profit and Loss Account amounting
to K 0.9 M (US$1.1 M) at the end of FY75 and this is expected
to increase to K 1 M (US$1.3 M) at the end of FY76. One reason
for this position is PNGDB's failure to do long term planning.
PNGDB enjoys very favorable interest spreads on its operations 1/,
but its administrative expenses are heavy and this is being
looked into closely by the Managing Director (MD). In the
past, PNGDB has received annual grants from the Government;
funds have also been onlent to it on easy terms. Future grants
at previous levels are unlikely and new loans will carry higher
rates of interest. It is therefore essential that PNGDB should
become more viable financially. An assurance has been obtained
during negotiations that an effective system of budgetary
control and management reporting system together with longer
term planning would be instituted by June 30, 1977.
(b) PNGDB's equity investments include subsidiary companies set up
and managed by its Technical Department. These companies are
faring satisfactorily. The accounts of these companies should
be audited by external auditors. It is PNGDB's intention to
sell these companies to nationals in due course and when this
is done, the buyers should be charged a fair price, based on
a valuation. Assurance have been obtained on these matters
during negotiations (Annex 2, para 27); and
(c) PNGDB's lending policy was recorded in a Board Policy Statement
in 1971. Subsequent developments such as the setting up of and
management of subsidiary companies, and the extensive financing
of hire purchase and equipment loans require incorporation in
the Policy Statement (Annex 2, para 5) and assurances have been
received on this matter during negotiations. PNGDB's MD,
though an experienced banker, joined the organization in March
1975 as the DMD and was made MD in August 1975. The present
DMD, a young PNG national was also appointed to his post on the
same date. The policy of the NEC in appointing these two key
officers for only one year is unsatisfactory as it does not
ensure continuity. 2/ The Bank's view is that these appoint-
ments should be made for a period of at least three years and
it was agreed during negotiations that this would be conveyed
to the NEC. Assurances have been received during negotiations
that Bank would be consulted on the terms and conditions of
future appointments to the posts of MD and DMD of PNGDB (Annex
2, paras 6 and 32).
1/   About 9%; see Annex 2, para 21.
2/   The present DMD was appoined MD in August 1976 for a period of two years.



- 24 -
5.08      Accounts and Audit:  Accounts of the Transport Company would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. PNGDB's accounts
are audited annually by the Auditor General of PNG, but the accounts are
presented in a condensed form in accordance with the PNGDB Act. These are
not satisfactory for Bank purposes. Arrangements have therefore been made
with PNGDB and the Auditor General that the preparation of accounts for the
Bank and the audit reporting would be done in accordance with World Bank
Group guidelines on the audit of Development Finance Companies. Assur-
ances were received on this matter (luring negotiations (Annex 2, para
35).
D. Staffing
5.09      The organizational structure outlined in paras 5.01 to 5.04 would
ensure that the required infrastructure and materials for the extension, edu-
cation, health and community development services are available as and when
required. Staffing of these services would be the responsibility of the
respective line departments involved. Staffing problems are expected to be
minimal since in selecting Popondetta as a site for a major area development
program Government places highest priority in ensuring that all the services
involved in the project are adequately staffed with people of the right qua-
lifications. Most departments have already allocated the key staff for this
purpose.
E. Settler Selection
5.10      Settler selection would be the responsibility of the Land Board and
would be on a nationwide basis with some preference to residence from the
Northern Province. The criteria of selection (Annex 3, paras 21 and 22) have
been drawn up in light of experience from previous settlements to minimize
selection of unsuitable applicants. Successful applicants would be given
one month from the time they have been advised of their selection to take
up their blocks. If a successful applicant declines to move to the project
area, another settler will be selected. Settlers will be given long term
(99 years) leasehold title to their blocks on occupancy. A settler would not
be permitted to sell his lease without permission from the Department of
Natural Resources.
VI.  YIELD, MARKETING AND SMALLHOLDERS' INCOME
A. Yields
6.01      Conditions for growing oil palm in the project area are excel-
lent, and perhaps better than they are in the Hoskins area.  Experience has



- 2 5 -
shown that PNG yields are higher than those achieved in Malaysia and
Indonesia although it is still too early to draw definite conclusions as to
future trends. Certainly, with comparable inputs, the estate company would
be apable of achieving higher average yields than are recorded in Malaysia
or Indonesia, however, yields from smallholders' plantings are estimated to
be about 80% of the CDC/Government nucleus estate performance of about 25 tons
FFB/ha. This assumption is well supported by the Hoskins' experience. FFB
production is expected to be 6 tons per ha in year four, steadily rising to a
peak of 20 tons in year eight to ten. Oil and kernel extraction rates are
assumed to increase from 18% and 3% in year four to 21% and 3.6% respectively
in year eight (Annex 3, Table 4). Annual production figures for oil and
kernel are shown in Annex 3, Table 5. On the basis of these projections pro-
dui.tion generated by smallholders and the nucleus estate would reach a peak
of 42,400 tons in 1988 when PNG's production, including about 70,000 tons
from the Hoskins and the Bialla projects, would represent about 2% of esti-
mated world exports at that time.
B. Markets and Prices
6.02      The most significant change in the world fats and oil consumption
over the past decade has been the significant shift from animal fats to
vegetable oils in which vegetable oil consumption increased from 60% of an
annual production of 34 M metric tons in 1967 to 65% of an annual production
of 44 M metric tons in 1975. This coincided with a sharp rise in palm oil
output from 1.4 M metric tons to 2.9 M metric tons over the same period re-
flecting the large increase in oil palm plantings in the mid 1960's particu-
larly in Malaysia. Under these changed market conditions palm oil enjoys a
competitive edge over other fats and oils because of its low production costs,
in spite of a consumer preference for soft oils such as soybean, cottonseed
and sunflower oils, over hard oils such as palm oil. Thus although the price
elasticity of demand for palm oil is high, ranging from 3.0 to 10.0, the
figure for all fats and oils is low at about 0.125.
6.03      The Bank's staff projects world production of fats and oils to
increase by 88% between 1976 and 1985. During this period, palm oil will ex-
pand its share from 6.8 to 10.1%. Most of this expansion will come from oil
palms planted during the late sixties which will reach their peak yields dur-
ing this period. Oil palm projects financed by the Bank Group will contribute
about 10.1% to the world production of palm oil by 1985.
6.04      Palm oil consumption in producing countries is projected to grow
rapidly during the next decade and exports (mainly to developed countries)
are projected to grow even faster. Thus share of palm oil in the world trade
of fats and oils will rise from 11.8% in 1976 to 22.9% in 1985. Malaysia
will continue to dominate exports followed by Indonesia; the Ivory Coast and
Zaire will be the main exporters in West Africa (Annex 11, Graph 2).



- 26 -
6.05      Developed countries import about 90% of palm oil traded in interna-
tional markets. Germany, Netherlands and the United Kingdom account for almost
60% of world palm oil imports (Graph 3). While the shares of three European
countries declined slightly during the past two decades (1955-1975), the share
of US palm oil imports increased by 300% during the last decade (1965-1975).
The growing demand for palm oil in the United States reflects the trend
towards greater use of vegetable oiLs in consumer products and the decline in
the price of palm oil relative to that of other vegetable oils.
6.06      Palm oil development in PNG started in 1967.  By 1985 about 23,000
ha of oil palm (smallholder and nucLeus estates) is expected to be in produc-
tion. Production of palm oil would amount to 51,000 tons in 1980 and then
increase to 103,000 tons in 1985. This would amount to about 1% of total
estimated world market exports of palm oil in 1980 and 2.4% in 1985. Con-
sidering these small percentages and the overall favorable world market
prospects for palm oil products in the eighties, the marketing of PNG's
palm oil should not encounter any difficulties. The Secretariat of the Inter-
governmental Group of Oil Seed, Oils and Fats has been informed of the Project
and raised no objections.
6.07      For the purposes of financial and economic rates of return calcula-
tions, prices of US$400 for oil and US$250 for kernel per metric ton cif
Europe (at 1976 constant prices) are used. These are the median prices of
the range given in Bank commodity price projections and correspond to ex-
pected world market prices in 1988 when the project will be in full production.
C. Purchase of Smallholders' FFB
6.08      The Factory Company would undertake the marketing of palm oil and
kernel processed from the FFB production of the Estate Company and the small-
holders. The company would purchase the smallholders' FFB crop in accordance
with an agreed price formula (Para 4.14 and Annex 7). Based on the prices
assumed in para 6.07, the farm-gate price paid to smallholders would be about
K 22.50 per ton FFB (Annex 7, Table 4).
D. Smallholders Incomes
6.09      Cash flow statements for the different classes of smallholder plant-
ings are shown in Annex 8, Table 2. During the planting and establishment
period of 3 years when no fruit is being produced, the cash income would
be maintained at K 120 per year by a living allowance payment included in
the loan. Over the following years while PNGDB loans are being repaid, the
annual cash income would rise from about K 280 in year 4 (US$360) to about
K 650 (US$825) 1/ in year 7. At full production and after loans are fully
1/   After Debt Service.



- 27 -
repaid, cash income from a 4 ha oil palm holding is expected to peak at about
K 1,500 (US$1,900) in year 13 after which it would decline gradually. In
addition, all settlers would be able to continue growing some food crops.
6.10      The project provides for extension services to improve subsistence
cropping. Moreover, once the 4 ha of oil palm reaches full development, many
of the settlers would be able to plant the remaining 1.5 ha of their blocks
in oil palm or other cash crops, using their own family labor and surplus
revenue from the 4 ha plantings. Such extra benefits have not been quanti-
fied and, therefore, are not included in the income figures stated above.
Financial Return
6.11      On the basis of farm models in Annex 3, Tables 9 to 11, the
financial rates of return on farm investments would be as follows:
Smallholders              ROR (F) %
New Settler                   17.1
Existing Settler              19.8
Village Farmer                20.5
In calculating these returns family labor has been included in the capital
and operating costs at K 1.62 per man day which is the present official wage
rate for non-skilled farm labor.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      The development of oil palm has been an important feature of the
Government's program to implement its rural development objectives: to foster
the geographic spread of development, to increase the opportunities for earn-
ing cash incomes by Papua New Guineans, to diversify agriculture and to
increase export earnings. The proposed project, together with the nucleus
estate development would bring into production more than 7,500 ha of fertile
land not presently used. By providing resettlement opportunities the project
would contribute to reducing population pressure in other parts of the country
(mainly the Highlands).
7.02      The project would bring about 1,400 smallholders into the cash
economy. Additionally, the project would create employment opportunities as
a result of the processing operation required to convert FFB into palm oil
and kernel. Also the multiplier effects on the regional economy of the pro-
posed investment would create substantial project-induced job opportunities.
Since manpower is lacking in the project area, expected emigration of labor-
ers would further help to reduce population pressure in some rural Provinces
of the country and also alleviate growing unemployment among unskilled workers



- 28 -
in PNG's major cities.  The smallholder development and associated activities
would support a total population of about 25,000.
7.03      Further benefits would result from improved access and communica-
tions for villages not directly participating in the project and from the
establishment of community development centers. Also, the project would lead
to the direct shipment of goods into Oro Bay which would considerably reduce
freight costs. Presently, all freight into Popondetta is shipped down the
coast from Lae at high cost. Undoubtedly increased import and export acti-
vity would-lead to further use being made of the modern but underutilized
Oro Bay wharf facilities. Thus, the project is expected to act as a catalyst
inducing further development in the Popondetta area.
7.04      At maturity (1988) the oil palm project (smallholders and nucleus
estate) would produce about 42,400 tons of palm oil and about 7,400 tons of
palm kernel.   All project oil and kernel would be exported and, at full
production, foreign exchange earnings from these products would be about
K 10.75 M (US$13.65 M).
Project Evaluation
7.05       Settlement Costs per family have been computed as follows:
Project Costs                           US$
Buildings for Extension/Social Services                650
Road Costs /a                                        1,150
Sub-total                                       1,800
Smallholder Development Costs
On-Farm Costs                                        2,105
Other Costs                                            705
Sub-total                                      2,810
Smallholder Transport Company                          430
TOTAL                                          5,040
/a   Based on the assumption that 30% of direct benefits
of roads would be to nonparticipants of the project.
When- the costs of the extension and social services over the development
period are included, and assuming that the proportional cost of these serv-
ices between project participants and non participants in the area would be
75:25 for extension services and 30:70 for social/respectively, the cost per
services



- 29 -
smallholder is about US$6,000 and if no adjustments are made for these ser-
vices or road usage the cost per smallholder is about US$7,925.
7.06      The number of jobs created by the project has been estimated as
follows:
Smallholder Development                          2,100
Government Services & Transport Company             300
Secondary Urban Development                        200
Secondary Rural Development                        500
TOTAL                3,100
The cost per job for the project would be about US$4,000.
7.07      In estimating the economic rate of return, adjustments to the costs
of extension/social services and roads were made to take into account use
by non-project participants living in the area. Thus these costs were pro-
portioned to the project beneficiaries as follows: Extension Services 75%,
Social Services 30%, Roads 70%.1/ A shadow wage rate of K 0.80 per day instead
of the full rural wage rate was also used. This reflects the employment and
wage situation in the areas of settler origin. With these assumptions the
economic rate of return for the Project is estimated at 14.5%. If the exten-
sion/social services and roads were costed fully in the Project the return
would be 11%.
7.08      Sensitivity of the economic rate of return (Annex 12) to changes in
various cost elements and export prices for palm oil and kernel has been tested
with the following results:
Type of Change                                         ROR(E)
(a)  10% cost increase                                  11.5%
(b)  10% benefit increase                               16.5%
(c)  10% benefit reduction                              11.5%
(d)  10% cost increase and 10% benefit reduction    9.0%
No attempt has been made to quantify other benefits such as increased employ-
ment opportunities in trade and marketing based on the increased production
and incomes for the project area, and the secondary benefits of facilities
such as roads under the project. Indeed, construction and improvement of
main roads in the project areas will not only serve the oil palm development
schemes but also improve traffic conditions for other road users. Finally,
the benefits smallholders would derive from subsistence crops and from
development of the balance of each settler's holding for expansion of oil
palm production, or other cash crops, have not been taken into consideration
in the ROR calculations.
1/   These percentages are based on discussions with PNG authorities in the
light of their experience.



- 30o -
7.09      Risks to the smallholder have been minimized by taking into ac-
count the experience gained from the organization and management of the very
successful IDA financed smallholder oil palm development at Hoskins. Also
trial plantings made in 1967 have shown the areas selected for growing oilpalm
in the Popondetta Province are most suitable. The soils are level, well drained
and fertile, the rainfall plentiful and well distributed, and there is ample
sunlight. In addition no problems are foreseen in selling the palm oil pro-
duced under the project in the same European markets as that from the Hoskins
area. Further the average price projections (constant 1976) of US$400 for oil
and US$250 for kernel per metric ton c.i.f. (para 6.07) are adequate to ensure
a satisfactory income to the farmer plus loan repayment from 5 to 13 years and
thereafter provide sufficient incentive for the farmers to clear and plant the
remaining 1-1/2 ha of uncleared land on their farms.
Cost and Benefit Recovery
7.10      All costs incurred on farm development 1/ are charged to the small-
holders' loan accounts and recovered in full together with interest. As in
the Hoskins project, where recoveries have been done efficiently, 50% of
farmgate income 2/ will be recovered at source and set off against the loan
accounts until they are repaid in full (Annex 8, Table 2 for smallholders'
cash flows). PNG has an effective income tax system and taxes will be re-
covered, as is being done on the Hoskins project, from smallholders when they
become payable.
7.11      Annex 13 examines the implications for public revenues and project
beneficiary incomes of the Government's proposed recovery policies for vari-
ous project components. The analysis presents two indices which are defined
as follows:
(a)  Cost Recovery Index:  the ratio of incremental direct payments
for the project by all project beneficiaries to incremental
project development operation and maintenance costs; and
(b)  Rent Recovery Index:  the ratio of incremental direct payments
for the project by a typical farm family to incremental "proj-
ect rent" where project rent is defined as incremental net
income less the value of labor, returns to management, returns
to incremental investment funds of the farmer and an allowance
for risk and uncertainty.
7.12      All project charges, costs and benefits are measured at present
values discounted at 10% annual rate of interest over the life of the project
in constant 1976 prices and summed. The results are summarized as follows:
1/   Including housing and subsistence and living allowances paid during
the development period.
2/   Subject to a minimum payment, based on present requirements, of K 7.50
per ton FFB, to the smallholders.



- 31 -
Cost Recovery                     Rent Recovery              Rent Recovery
(Total Project)            (Existing Settlers & Villagers) (New Settlers)
63%                                57%                      74%
Without project income:             K 516/family               K 516/family
With project income:                K 1,500/family             K 1,500/family
The incremental net farm incomes would provide sufficient incentives for
settlers to participate in the project. The allowances for the rent recovery
indices are shown in Annex 13, Table I while for cost recovery the items shown
in the same table are from the various component annexes. All farm development
costs are charged but only 75% of extension services, 70% of road up-grading
and construction and 30% of social services are charged to the project since
much of the benefits of these components are captured by non-participants in
this project.
Social Impact
7.13      Except for the benefits which accrue directly to the Government and
the nucleus estate company, most of the project benefits would accrue to PNG
settlers, villagers and laborers, who are expected to come from the least
developed and overpopulated areas of PNG. The distributional impact of the
project would therefore be favorable. In addition to a considerable increase
in incomes, smallholders and factory workers will be provided with improved
health, education and other infrastructure facilities to improve their living
standards. Finally, in the design of settlements there has been an attempt to
encourage integration of people from many parts of the country. Ideally, six
to ten families from a particular ethnic group are settled on adjoining pro-
perties. In the overall choice of settlers, allocations will be made with a
view to a balanced selection from the different geographic areas of PNG. This
aspect is of significance as PNG searches for a new, post-independence, na-
tional identity.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The project is considered to be financially viable, economically
sound and socially desirable. It is suitable for Bank financing of US$12 M.
During negotiations agreement on the following major points was reached with
the Government:
(a) nucleus estate company would provide smallholders with suit-
able planting material (4.08);
(b) Government would review annual requirements of extension staff
to service increased demand for food cropping and appoint
additional staff when required (4.12);
(c) nucleus estate company would provide for oil palm research
and the results of such research would be readily available
to all smallholders in the area (4.13);



- 32 -
(d)  any changes in the criteria for determining FFB price
will be made in consultation with the Bank (4.14);
(e) Government would establish a Transport Company (TC) prior
to the first production of FFB by smallholders with capital
structure and operating policies satisfactory to the Bank
(4.15);
(f)  Government would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with
PNGDB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (4.24);
(g) Government would make available to PNGDB additional funds as
may be necessary for on-farm development (4.24);
(h) PNGDB loans to smallholders would bear interest at 11% per
annum and lending terms to the smallholders would not be
amended without prior consultation with the Bank (4.25);
(i) the Technical Director and the Project Coordinator would be
appointed as Government's representatives to the boards of
the nucleus estate and factory companies and the TC (5.04);
(j) a Project Manager Field with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank would be appointed by March 31, 1977 (5.04);
(k) a Project Accountant with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank would be appointed to the OPC by June 30, 1977 (5.04);
(1) an effective system of budgetary control and longer term
planning would be instituted by PNGDB by June 30, 1977;
(5.07(a));
(m)  the Bank would be consulted on the terms and conditions of
future appointments to the posts of MD and DMD of PNGDB
(5.07 (c));
(n) PNGDB's subsidiary companies would be audited externally
and when these companies are sold, the buyers would be
charged a fair price based on a valuation (5.07(b));
(o)  PNGDB's policy on financing of hire-purchase and equipment
loans and setting up and management of subsidiary companies
would be incorporated in its Lending Policy Statement
(5.07(c)); and
(p) accounts of PNGDB, and the Transport Company would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank: PNGDB's accounts
would be audited in accordance with World Bank Group Guide-
lines on the audit of DeveLopment Finance Companies. (5.08)



- 33 -
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be (a) the conclusion of
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and PNGDB which is satis-
factory to the Bank (4.24); and (b) the agreement between Government and
CDC covering the establishment and financing of the factory/nucleus estate
companies would have been concluded to the satisfaction of the Bank (4.27).






ANNEX 1
Page  1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Department of Primary Industry
Organization
1.        The Department of Primary Industry (DPI), previously the Department
of Agriculture, Stock and Fisheries (DASF), is the Government Department
responsible for policy formulation, planning and implementation of agricutural,
livestock, fisheries and wildlife management and conservation programs.
During 1975 and in early 1976 substantial changes took place in the organiza-
tion of the Department and in ministerial responsibility. A January 1976
reshuffle of ministerial responsibilities has placed responsibility for DPI
together with the Department of Forests under a new Ministry of Primary
Industry. This new arrangement which reduced the size of the Ministry re-
placed the cumbersome arrangement which existed through much of 1975 where the
Director of DASF was reporting to 3 ministers (Agriculture for agriculture and
stock; Natural Resources (forests) for fishing; and Conservation and Environ-
ment for wildlife). While at the time of the Mission's visit the Minister had
been appointed, no final details were available on the proposed relationship
of the existing departmental heads (DASF and Forests) to a new permanent min-
istry head. However, DPI responsibilities and organization remain unchanged
from that approved in 1975.
2.        The present organization of DPI is shown in Chart 1.  This repre-
sents some significant changes on the previous departmental organization in-
cluding:
(a) the disbandonment of the previous regional organization
where four regional controllers had financial responsi-
bility for all departmental activity in the wide regions
they administered;
(b) the devolution of responsibility for planning, implementa-
tion and financial control of departmental activity in the
nineteen Provinces (previously Districts) to nineteen Pro-
vincial Rural Development Officers (PRDO) (except for national
agricultural projects and some specific functions);
(c) the organization of headquarters on a commodity basis with
the establishment of separate Agriculture, Livestock, and
Wildlife and Fisheries Branches;
(d) the creation of a headquarters branch (Policy Review and
Coordination) for coordination of departmental activity
at Provincial level;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(e) the integration of planning into the Planning Economics
and Marketing Branch; and
(f) the appointment of a Deputy Director.
3.        Part of the rationale for this re-organization was the Government's
desire to meet the growing demands by provincial or area groupings for greater
participation in the planning of development in their own areas. While these
demands have not, with the exception of Bougainville, as yet led to any form-
alized Provincial level of Government there are indications that some general
arrangements at this level could evolve with such groups at least having greater
say in the development for the area concerned. The new organization does in
fact cater for this while at the same time placing greater control of func-
tions such as national policy development, pest and disease control, produce
quality control, research, conservation of fauna, organized marketing and
national project development in headc[uarters. Another factor influencing the
reorganization was the fact that Government administration is generally organized
on a provincial basis with the Provincial Commissioner being the senior public
servant in a Province. Probably the most important factor, however, was the
growing recognition that rural, fishery, and wildlife planning, and implemen-
tation needed to be organized on a commodity by commodity approach at the same
time as a (small) area by area approach.
4.        The headquarters functional branches (Agriculture, Livestock, Wild-
life, Fisheries) are responsible for the development of policies, and plans
for each commodity within the framework of priorities developed within the
Planning Economics and Marketing Brarnch. They are responsible for providing
the technical and support services (pest and disease control, research, etc.)
to ensure that programs are implemented at the Provincial level. They are
also responsible for the implementation of projects of national importance
e.g., the Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project would be under
the control of the Assistant Director, Agriculture, as far as Departmental
responsibility is concerned.
5.        The Agricultural Education and Training Branch has responsibility
for training at colleges, in-service training and career planning, farmer
training program coordination, speciaLlist training, rural broadcasting,
library and other support services, and research into extension methods.
The Planning Economics and Marketing Branch has broad responsibilities for
the development of national area and specific project policies and plans and
coordination of departmental planning and implementation with budget prepara-
tion and review as well as with international credit and aid and agro-related
development in forestry, transport etc. As well they provide Government repre-
sentation on statutory marketing boards, administer policy on organized market-
ing, and provide marketing and produce inspection services. The Branch is also
responsible for the collection and publication of smallholder statistics and
provision of economic and planning services to field staff and farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.        The PRDO is responsible for planning and implementing programs
within national policy guidelines at Provincial level. His staff includes
Rural Development Officers (RDO), Rural Development Technicians (RDT), Rural
Development Assistants (RDA), clerical support staff, and some specialists.
Other specialist staff such as Veterinary Officers, agricultural economists,
produce inspectors who may in fact be resident within a Province, are
directly supervised by the RDO but have clear lines of communication to
section heads at headquarters. Staff within a Province are usually posted
on a sub-province or extension center basis with some specialist extension
staff at provincial headquarters. Where a national project such as an oil
palm project is located within a Province this is under the control of a
project manager with direct links to the relevant headquarters branch, but
with regular contact with the RDO.
7.        The RDO's are in constant contact with the Policy Review and Co-
ordination Branch at headquarters and work through four area coordinators.
These four people together with their Assistant Director apart from general
servicing of RDO's are also represented on the Departmental Standing Committee.
The Committee including all Assistant Directors meet with the Director and
Deputy Director on a regular basis for at least one hour each week. This
enables the RDO's field problems to be immediately represented at top depart-
mental level. More formal meetings of Standing Committee where policy matters
are discussed are held on a regular 6 to 8 weekly basis.
8.        DPI staff increased about sixfold from 403 in 1960 to 2,542 in 1975.
Apart from the magnitude of this increase of equal significance has been the
change in the proportion of local personnel. In 1961, the department was
staffed almost exclusively by expatriates while in December 1975 there were
2,191 local staff and 351 expatriate staff (Table 1). Although Government
policy is to eventually localize all its staff, it also recognizes that this
should be done gradually and that for some time to come the maintenance of a
core of expatriate staff is essential to the efficient running of the Depart-
ment. At present, DPI is heavily dependent upon expatriates to provide upper
and middle level administrative and middle level expertise. Its local staff
is young and inexperienced and many lack the qualifications to fill these
positions.
9.        Before independence it was feared that once independence was declared
the outflow of expatriate staff would be such that it would seriously impair
DPI's ability to function efficiently. While it is true that the DPI did
lose (and still is losing) valuable experienced expatriate staff financed
and employed by the Australian Government, the impact of this loss has not
been as serious as anticipated. Also, Government has been successful in its
campaign to recruit expatriate staff directly. Most of these have been con-
tracted for 2 years and after June 30, 1976, when the direct payment of ex-
patriate staff by the Australian Government ceases, all expatriates will be
recruited in this manner. However, under these conditions turnover is likely
to be high and working conditions less stable than before.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
10.       Government has placed great emphasis on education and training of
PNG nationals in the rural field. I]n particular, it is encouraging more
people to take agricultural degrees at the University of PNG, is stepping
up its diploma programs at Vudal Agriculture College, and also has expanded
facilities at the HATI and PATI agricultural training institutes to increase
output of Agricultural Certificate graduates. Already DASF is benefitting
from these programs and in January 1976 employed 104 graduates out of a total
of 140 from Vudal, HATI and PATI. However, in spite of Government's excel-
lent efforts in education and training, it will be sometime before there are
sufficient experienced local officers to replace expatriate staff at the
upper/middle management and technicaLl levels.
Extension Services
11.       The main staff members who have direct contact with the farmers
include the RDO, who normally has a Diploma in Agriculture, and his team of
Rural Development Technicians (two-year Certificate in Agriculture) and Rural
Development Assistants (without formal training). The keenness and enthusiasm
of the staff are apparent, but there are problems associated with short-term
contracts given to expatriates and the inevitable inexperience of newly
trained local personnel. There are 461 trained staff and 808 without formal
training, classed as Field Staff, serving an estimated 370,000 farmers - a
ratio of one trained field man to about 3,000 farmers. The service has func-
tioned satisfactorily so far, but there is the danger that rapid turnover and
transfer of local staff 1/ as well as the departure of expatriates could
affect its efficiency in the short run.
A summary of DPI field staff is given below:
DPI Field Staff 1975
Rural Development Officer /a                       194 /b
Rural Development Technician (Certificate)         183
Rural Development Assistant                        808
Other Ic                                           203
1,388
/a   Mostly diploma holders.
Tb   Includes 88 ASAG officers.
/c   Includes 31 project managers, 120 clerical support
staff, and 53 others in such groups as produce
inspectors etc.
1/   With the rapidly expanding service promotion opportunities are good for
local staff willing to accept transfer.



ANNEX I
Page 5
Agricultural Credit Activities
12.       In addition to the purely technical aspects of the work DPI ex-
tension officers are officially designated to act as field agents for PNGDB's
farm credit service. In this the RDO's and their staff are responsible for:
(a) the technical side of the loan;
(b) preparing the farm plan and budget;
(c) helping an applicant prepare the loan application;
(d) evaluating the managerial ability of the applicant
and his creditworthiness;
(e) helping the applicant procure stock and materials;
(f) ensuring that the farmer keeps to the development
program; and
(g) preparing progress reports for PNGDB.
However, apart from specifically defined projects (and or commodities), the
involvement of DPI extension staff in agricultural credit operations has been
disappointing. In many centers there is virtually no contact between the DPI
and PNGDB officers. An important reason for this lack of cooperation is that
most extension staff have had little or no training in agricultural credit
operations. Similarly, many PNGDB field officers are inexperienced and inade-
quately trained. Under the proposed Project provision has been made to finance
the training of DPI extension officers and PNGDB field staff in smallholder
rural credit operations.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Department of Agriculture Stock and Fisheries Staffing
----------- 30/6/75---------          __            31/12/75 -------          ------------ 30/6/76 (Est)------
FUNCTION                       Nationals    Overseas    ASAG          Nationals    Overseas    ASAG           Nationals    Overseas    ASAG
Non ASAG                               Non ASAG                                Non ASAG
General Services                  131            14          8            113             7          7            117             8          8
Planning/Economics                  4             7         11              5             7         10              6            11         11
Training                           86            17         38             89            21        40              94            27         35
Agr. & Livestock Development   1381              39         72           1413            31        49            1481            35         43
Nat. Dev. Projects                 34             1          4             64             1         4              68             1          4
Dev. Engineering                   -              2          4              2             2         3               4             2          3
Livestock Production/
Research/Survey                   143            20         34            150            22        30             153            26         28
Crop Production/Pig/Service       135            15         40            145            15        39             145            18         39
Wildlife Research &
Management                         20             2          8             28             2          7             28             4          5
Produce Inspection                 17             2          2             20             2          3             26             2          2
Cash Crop Market                   10             1          3             10             0          0             10             1          1
Fresh Food Market                  12            10          3             27            16          8             51            19          9
Fisheries                         119             6         18            125             6         17            127             6         17
TOTAL            2092           136        245           2191           134       217            2316           160        206
Total establishment positions approved approximately 3,000
Total staff ceiling funded in 1975/76 -- 2,714
Yi-



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Dep tment of Ag-ICultUr-, Stm k ancd FP,h.ri  OrffNI.a.
II -






ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Development Bank
I. Background
1.        The World Bank economic survey mission which visited Papua New
Guinea in 1963 recommended the establishment of a "Development Finance Cor-
poration".  The mission envisaged that its aim should be to encourage the
indigenous sector of the economy. Since this would involve the financing of
a large number of small projects, it was also recommended that the corporation
be established as a purely Government organization. The Australian Govern-
ment endorsed the mission's recommendations and the Papua New Guinea Develop-
ment Bank (PNGDB) Ordinance was enacted in December 1965. PNGDB commenced
operations in July 1967.
2.        With few exceptions the only credit previously available to Papua
New Guineans had been from the limited and modest opertaions of the Native
Loans Fund which provided credit mainly for rural and land settlement schemes.
The assets of this fund were taken over by PNGDB when it was disbanded in 1969.
II. Functions and Powers
3.        The main functions of PNGDB, as defined in its Ordinance are:  to
provide finance for persons (a) for the purpose of primary production; or
(b) for the establishment, development or acquisition (in whole or in part)
of industrial or commercial undertakings; and to provide advice and assis-
tance with a view to promoting the efficient organization and conduct of
primary production or of industrial or commercial undertakings.
III. The Board and Policy
4.         The policy of PNGDB is determined by its Board of Directors com-
prising 12 members who are appointed by the National Executive Council (NEC)
for a period not exceeding three years. The Board includes the Vice Chan-
cellor of the University of PNG, who is now the Chairman of the Board, the
Secretary for Finance of PNG, the Managing Director (MD) and the Deputy Managing
Director (DMD) of PNGDB. The PNGDB Ordinance stipulates that it is the duty
of PNGDB to ensure that its policy is directed towards the greatest advantage
of the people of PNG and has due regard to the stability and balanced develop-
ment of the PNG economy and the advancement of the indigenous economy and
population. A Lending Policy Statement was adopted by the Board in 1971.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
The more significant provisions of this statement are:  PNGDB should pay
greater attention to the prospects of the enterprise financed than to the
value of the security provided; where PNGDB takes equity in a project, it
would generally not seek a controlling interest; PNGDB will not normally lend
for working capital except when associated with a development project; PNGDB
will not normally commit to any single enterprise finance for the acquisition
of assets which, in the aggregate, amount to greater than 25% of PNGDB's
capital and reserves; PNGDB's participation in the ordinary shares of any
single enterprise will not normally exceed 10% of PNGDB's capital and reserves;
PNGDB will not, as a general rule, extend loans to any enterprise for and
secured by machinery and equipment exceeding 75% of the value of such machin-
ery and equipment; PNGDB shall not, without prior agreement of Government
borrow sums which in the aggregate, exceed three times the capital of the Bank
plus reserves; PNGDB shall maintain reserves consistent with prudent financial
management.
5.         The above statement requires amendment as some subsequent activi-
ties of PNGDB have superceded the policy determined in 1971. For instance,
although the PNGDB Act was amended in 1973 to allow the Bank to set up sub-
sidiary companies, the Board Statemetnt has not been amended to include its
policy on this subject (paras 26 & 27). The Board should also include in
this Statement, its policy on hire purchase lending and equipment financing
which have increased considerably over the past two years (para 25).
IV. Management Organization and Staffing
6.         PNGDB's organization chart is shown in Appendix 1.  The management
of the Bank is the responsibility of the MD who is assisted by the DMD. Both
these appointments are made by the NEC.  In the past the MD and the DMD were
appointed for at least two years or more 1/, but the current appointees hold
office for only one year although they could be reappointed. The present MD
is an expatriate officer with considerable experience in commercial banking
but commenced employment with PNGDB only in March 1975 when he was appointed
the DMD. Within a few months, in August 1975, he succeeded the outgoing
expatriate MD and, at the same time, a national officer was appointed for
the first time as DMD. The latter who is 26 years of age, commenced regular
employment with PNGDB in FY74 2/ after passing his Bachelor of Economics
degree at the University of PNG. Thus, while the present MD though exper-
ienced, is comparatively new in PNGDB, the DMD is young, with about four years'
experience. Under these circumstances, the policy of the NEC of appointing
these officers for a period of one year (presently from August 1975) is not
staisfactory as it does not ensure continuity. 3/ These appointments should
1/ According to the PNGDB Act, these two officers may be appointed for
periods not exceeding seven years.
2/ PNGDB's financial year is from Jujly 1 to June 30.
3/ This was the position during appraisal in February 1976. In August 1976
the DMD was appointed MD for a period of two years. The DMD's post has
been advertized.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
be made for a period of at least three years and it was agreed during negotia-
tions that the Bank's views on the tenure of these appointments would be
conveyed to the NEC.
7.         The departments within PNGDB and their functions are given in
Appendix 1. Appendix 2 gives details of staff numbers (including numbers of
overseas staff) from 1973 onwards. Due to the paucity of trained Papua New
Guineans within the country PNGDB has been obliged to employ a number of
expatriates over the last few years. However, with more educated nationals
becoming available for employment and PNG becoming an independent nation, a
policy of localization is taking place as seen from the following staff
numbers:
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
--forecast--
Total staff employed a/           172     219      283      303     311      319
Total number of expatriates        58      59       67       54      43       34
Percentage - expatriates           34%     27%      24%      18%     14%      11%
a/ Excluding full time scholarship holders.
In planning the future staff requirements, PNGDB is conscious of the need to
maintain efficiency, while at the same time training the national officers
to take over more responsibilites.
V. Education and Training
8.         PNGDB has had a scheme for some years whereby promising students
have been given scholarships to study at the University of PNG, the University
of Technology and Vudal Agricultural College. These students are employed by
PNGDB during the vacations and offered permanent employment on completion of
their studies.
9.         PNGDB's training of its staff consists of (a) in-service training
and (b) a three stage formal training program. In-service training is done
at various stages through PNGDB's own training courses. Stage one of the
formal training program consists of a three months' full time course for new
officers in business principles and English Language offered by the Banker's
College, an institution established and financed by the banks in PNG 1/ to
train their indigenous staff. In stage two, officers with up to two years
of service are provided with training in specialized spheres: an officer
could attend a short course at PNGDB Head Office or attend the Administrative
1/ Including the Central Bank and PNGDB



ANNEX 2
Page 4
College of PNG; he could also receive specialized training in Australia
through the Commonwealth Training Scheme. Stage three is designed for offi-
cers with four or more years of service or graduates from a University. At
this stage, advanced training overseas, or at the Administrative College, or
within PNGDB is provided. In FY75, stage one handled 40 recruits; stage
two 36; and stage three 16.
VI. Assistance from Government Departments
10.       PNGDB also obtains services from the staff of Government departments.
The Department of Business Development has a Business Extension Service,
which operates as an extension agency to assist Papua New Guineans in setting
up and operating commercial and industrial enterprises. This service assists
PNGDB by way of promotion and by supervising operations. Of greater signif-
icance, however, is the assistance rendered by DPI. PNGDB relies heavily
on DPI extension staff for its small rural operations where the latter not
only prepare and appraise projects and assist with the supervision, but also
act as agents of PNGDB for disbursement of loan funds.
VII. Agricultural Lending Methods
11.       The methods used by PNGDB in conjunction with DPI for small agri-
cultural loans represent a very workable scheme under difficult circumstances.
Because of the system of land holding, land title cannot be obtained in most
instances when lending to indigenes. PNGDB accepts instead a document known
as a "Clan Land UIsage Agreement" from the elders of the applicant's clan.
This certifies that the applicant will, during the period of his loan or
longer, have the use of a particular piece of land and the benefit of crops
and livestock developed on it. Where appropriate, this Clan Land Usage Agree-
ment is also signed by relevant Local Government Officials, and while it does
not represent legal security, it does indicate there has been serious consid-
eration of the claim by clan members who might be possible contestants for
land use. It also imposes a moral ob:Ligation on clan leaders, which they
regard as a serious and binding undertaking. In the case of these smaller
loans, PNGDB is lending to borrowers who are scarcely in the cash economy
and therefore it has developed certain guidelines for establishing a reason-
able level of contribution to capital by way of labor input. In livestock
lending, PNGDB usually expects that all fence posts and yards would be erec-
ted as the borrower's contribution.
12.       However, PNGDB's record of agricultural credit operations in rural
areas has been somewhat limited todate. In FY75, 51% of the number of agri-
cultural loans to Papua New Guineans (Table 5) representing 80% of value of
such loans were for cattle, pigs, poultry and oil palm financed mainly through
IDA credits. Government is keen that PNGDB should expand its operations in
rural areas. To fulfill this need, DP'I Officers and PNGDB field staff require
further training in agricultural credit operations with special emphasis
on rural development.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
VIII. Technical Assistance
13.        Technical assistance would therefore be provided through this
credit for the financing of a senior agricultural credit specialist with
experience in developing countries. The agricultural credit training pro-
gram has to be undertaken on a countrywide basis and for this purpose it is
considered appropriate that the consultant would be resident within PNGDB.
Terms of reference for this consultant are given in Appendix 3. Also, as
PNGDB is not ensured of future funding of overseas training, assistance would
be provided through this credit for overseas training of PNGDB staff in small-
holder credit (Annex 6, Table 3).
14.        In 1975, the PNG Government requested IDA financing to employ a
Systems and Procedures Specialist to advise on the introduction of simpli-
fied work methods in DASF and PNGDB and to perform other related tasks to
improve the efficiency of both DPI and PNGDB. IDA agreed to this request
and the financing is being done initially out of savings on IDA Credit 175-PNG.
The terms of reference for the consultants are given in Appendix 4. The
consultants commenced work in PNG in February 1976.
IX. Branches and Internal Audit
15.        In addition to its Head Office, PNGDB has seven branches in major
centers (Appendix 5), three sub-branches and eight agencies, (or representat-
tive offices) usually with one representative each. On smaller operations
PNGDB has significantly decentralized the more routine aspects of appraisal
and supervision. Cash limits placed on branch managers' authority vary ac-
cording to activity and the level of experience of the managers but in gen-
eral, branch managers have power to approve loans up to K 10,000 1/. Sub-
branches do not approve loans, but promote business and report on loans when
requested. Their responsibility is to branch offices. Representative
offices perform functions similar to sub-branch offices, but at a smaller
scale in more remote areas.
16.        Branches are inspected at least once a year by the Manager, Branch
Department, Head Office or his assistant. In addition branch audits are
carried out by the internal audit section of PNGDB which reports directly
to the DMD. This section is responsible for the evaluation and revision,
where appropriate, of procedures and controls within PNGDB, and checking the
routine operations of the Bank to ensure that the policies and procedures
are followed.
I/  Consideration is being given to increasing these limits.  Separate
accounts are not kept to show branch profitably because of the limitation
on branch lending. Direct expenses on branches are, however, available.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
X. Financial Position
17.        PNGDB's financial staitements for the period FY73 to FY76 1/ are
given in Tables 1 to 3. Paras 18 to 32 deal with PNGDB's financial position
which requires strengthening.
Resources
18.        PNGDB's capital of K 25.4 M less losses brought forward of K 0.9 M
amounted to 84% of its resources at June 30, 1975, the end of its last finan-
cial year. The corresponding percentages for 1973 and 1974 were 90% and 86%
respectively. Out of the capital of K 25.4 M, K 24.2 M (or 95%) consisted of
annual grants by the Government over the period FY67 to FY75. Although a
grant was requested for FY76, thiis is not expected as a result of a lowering
in the level of Australian aid to PNG.
19.        In addition, during 1969, PNGDB took over the loan portfolios of
two government-run development schemes, the Ex-Servicemen's Credit Board and
the Native Loans Board. As both schemes had many doubtful debts, PNGDB shows
these accounts as loans in its books with a contra Reserve account. Recover-
ies on these loans are credited to capital account. 2/
20.        Borrowings by PNGDB have increased recently, from 7% of resources
in June 1973 to 12% in June 1975.. The bulk of the borrowings consist of IDA
loans, (K 2.7 M at June 1975) drawn under IDA Credits 137-PNG (oil palm),
175-PNG (oil palm and livestock) and 348-PNG (livestock). These loans have
been onlent to PNGDB at easy repa,yment terms at a nominal interest rate of
1-1/4% per annum. PNGDB also has a commitment from ADB via the PNG Govern-
ment for a loan of US$4.5 M as a line of credit for general productive pur-
poses. The rate of interest on this loan to PNGDB is 3.5% per annum and loan
repayment is due to commence in FY76. PNGDB has not been able to use this
facility fully 3/ and the amount drawn by June 1975 was only US$0.8 M. The
loan drawdown date was originally August 1975 and this has now been extended
to August 1976.
21.        Thus, so far, PNGDB has had the facility of getting free grants and
loans at comparatively easy terms. In the case of IDA oil palm loans, repay-
ments have been above expectations due to high world prices for oil palm
(until early 1975) and these funds have also been available to PNGDB for rein-
vestment. These arrangements have resulted in PNGDB now enjoying an average
spread of about 9% between its cost of resources and its lending rates. For
the immediate future, however, it appears unlikely that the Government would
1/ FY73 - FY75 are actuals, FY76 figures are estimates.
2/  Thus, out of the capital of K 25.4 M at June 30, 1975, Government grants
amounted to K 24.2 M and recoveries from these development scheme loans
amounted to K 1.2 M.
3/ Due mainly to loan conditions regarding procurement.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
give grants to PNGDB on the earlier scale and the appraisal mission was in-
formed by the Government that a reasonable rate of interest should be charged
to PNGDB on future loans (paras 31 and 32).
Use of Resources
22.        Excluding loans taken over from the two credit schemes (para 19),
total loans outstanding as of June 1975 amounted to K 19.8 M or 67% of the
total assets. The other assets were liquid funds (12% of assets), investments
(11 % of asets), and bank premises (9% of assets).
23. Loans
Table 4 gives details of PNGDB's loan approvals during the period
FY68 to FY75. While pursuing the policy of increased lending to nationals,
PNGDB has combined this with a blend of more profitable lending to non-
nationals and to joint enterprises especially for commerce and industry. An
examination of PNGDB's loan balances 1/ over the past three years shows that
commercial and industrial loans, together with hire-purchase and equipment
loans, amounted to 69% of loan balances 2/ at June 1975 while oil palm, rural
and other small loans amount to 31% of such balances. In terms of loan num-
bers, however, approvals for agricultural loans in FY75 amounted to 58% of
the total. Average values of agricultural loans are therefore lower than
commercial and industrial loans.
Agricultural Loans to Papua New Guineans
24.        Table 5 gives details of agricultural loan approvals to Papua
New Guineans in FY75. The overall average value of such loans was K 1,332,
but in the case of 42% of these loans, the average was below K 1,000.
This is understandable because one of the most important tasks of PNGDB
in the agricultural and rural sector is to help the transition from tradi-
tional subsistence agriculture to a monetized economy. Thus, in practice,
requests for reasonable loans from Papua New Guineans are never refused, even
if the amounts are small, and result in high costs of administration 3/. On
the other hand, in order to be financially viable as an institution, and to
be able to lend to all sectors for general economic development, PNGDB, in
the past, has been encouraged and to some extent forced to seek out, insti-
tute and nurture enterprises in which it could profitably invest some of its
funds. This explains PNGDB's loan portfolios in commerce and industry, which
are now dominated by expatriates.
1/ See summarized Balance Sheets in Table 1.
2/ Excluding balances on Ex-Servicemen's Credit Board and Native Loan
Board Loans.
3/ This is one of the aspects which is being examined by the present systems
study (para 14 and Appendix 4).



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Equipment and Hire-Purchase Loans
25.        A significant development during the past three years has been an
increase in PNGDB's financing of equipment and hire-purchase loans. During
the calendar year 1975 it is estimated that out of a total of about 2,300 loan
approvals 976 or 42% were for hire-purchase and equipment finance. In terms
of values, such approvals amounted to about 53% of total loan amounts during
the same period. This type of lending is done only for productive purposes 1/
and not for items of consumption or domestic use, and developed during a
period when PNGDB had surplus liquid funds, especially as a result of early
repayment of oil palm loans. Board policy on this activity is not recorded,
and should be included in its Policy Statement (para 5).
Equity Portfolio
26.        PNGDB's equity and debenture portfolio amounted to K 3.2 M at June
30, 1975. This portfolio could be divided into two parts: (a) Investments
totalling K 2.9 M made in the earlier years of PNGDB's existence in conse-
quence of the Government's wish that PNGDB should take up shareholdings in
foreign owned companies with the object of selling them to Papua New Guineans
when the companies became profitable. Such investments included a total in-
vestment of K 2.5 M in New Britain Palm Oil Development Company (NBPOD), in
which Harrisons and Crosfield Ltd. and the Government participated as equal
partners in the Hoskins oil palm project 2/ (Credits 137-PNG & 175-PNG). The
bulk of the above investments were sold recently to the Government (including
the investment in NBPOD) for K 2.9 M 3/; (b) Investments made by PNGDB in its
own projects, and controlled by it. This is a comparatively recent development
and it is the policy of PNGDB to promote, control and, if necessary, manage
business enterprises with the object of developing Papua New Guinean entre-
preneurship. It is PNGDB's intention to hand over the businesses to the na-
tionals when they become profitable, and the nationals are capable of managing
them.  The Board Policy Statement however states that PNGDB would not seek a
controlling interest when it seeks equity in a project and this requires amend-
ment (para 5). Table 6 contains a list of companies now controlled and managed
by PNGDB, through its Technical Department.
27.        The financial performance of these companies have so far been satis-
factory. However, both the appraisal of the investments in such companies and
the subsequent monitoring of their performance is now done by the Technical
Department itself. Some of the companies are not audited by external auditors.
In most cases the percentage of debt is higher than the equity and the intention
1/ Given mainly for financing of trucks and other vehicles and heavy equipment.
2/ PNGDB are "beneficial holders" of the shares on behalf of the Government.
3/ The Government paid PNGDB an aclvance of K 960,000 in FY76 towards purchase
of these shares.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
of the Technical Department is to follow this principle 1/ and ask the intend-
; rg purchasers to take over the loan balances (if any) at the time of taking
over the business. It is not intended to charge the buyer a reasonable price
for the value of the business at the time of sale. Such a practice is un-
desirable and would amount to the grant of a gift to the purchaser thus creat-
ing an unhealthy precedent. It is therefore necessary that: activities and
results of companies controlled by PNGDB should be monitored independently of
the Technical Department which is now responsible for appraisal and mangement
of the projects; the accounts of such companies should be audited by suitable
external auditors, and when businesses are ready to be sold, the buyers should
be charged a fair price based on a valuation.
Operating Results
28.        The operating results of PNGDB (income and expenditure details) are
given in Table 2 while Table 3 gives a statement of its Administration expen-
ses. The results of PNGDB show that, except for a small profit earned in FY72,
losses were incurred until FY73; small profits were made in FY74 and FY75.
Cumulative losses at June 30, 1975 amounted to K 930,000 2/ or 3.7% of the
capital at that date. The main reason for PNGDB's inability to earn pro-
fits at this juncture, despite the favorable interest spreads which it now
enjoys (para 21), is its high level of administration expenses 3/ which
have been consistently at about 85% of the total income for the past few
years and this percentage has been forecast to increase to 90% in FY76.
These figures, together with the percentage increase in total income and
administrative expenses over a five year period FY72 to FY76 are as follows:
FY72     FY73      FY74      FY75      FY76
(forecast)
 ----________-- (K'000)  - ----
(a)  Total Income                  1,208    1,450    1,789    2,578    2,936
(b)  Total Admin. Expenses         1,032    1,223    1,534    2,195    2,643
(b)  as Percentage of Income        85        84        86       85        90
Percentage increase over
previous year:
Income                         25       20        23        44        14
Admin. Expenses                21        18        25       43        20
1/ Approximately K 1.7 M is to be invested, mainly as loans, in these
companies in 1976.
2/ This includes a write off of K 300,000 on an equity investment made at
Government's request in the first year of PNGDB's operation.
3/ Excluding depreciation and provisions for doubtful debts.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
The administration expenses for FY76 are forecast to increase by 20% over FY75
whereas the corresponding increase in income is only 14% and therefore a loss
of K 87,000 has been forecast for FY76. Administration expenses and provision
for doubtful debts, expressed as a percentage of closing portfolios amounted to
7% in FY72 and increased to 9.5% in FY75. The corresponding percentages on the
total assets portfolio were 4.6% and 7.4% respectively.
29.        The main item of expenses is salaries and other staff benefits, 1/
of which 55-60% is on account of expatriates, whose numbers are forecast to
decline from 67 (24% of total Staff) in FY75 to 34 (11%) in FY78 (para 7 and
Appendix 2). This should reduce the high percentage of administration expen-
ses. The present MD is paying particular attention to this subject.
Reserves
30.        Although the Board policy statement provides for maintenance of
reserves consistent with prudent financial management, PNGDB has so far been
unable to build up reserves. The accumulated Loss on Profit and Loss Account
is expected to reach K 1 M at the end of FY76 and then taper down in subse-
quent years with a fall in administration expenses.
31.        PNGDB's general experience on bad debts has been satisfactory, 2/
and the provision for doubtful debts is adequate. PNGDB attributes some of
its high costs of administration to the time spent by expatriates in training
local staff. Such expenses are not, however, costed separately. The cost of
rural lending is also extremely high due to the low average value of loans
but on the other hand, PNGDB has had the facility of free grants over a number
of years together with borrowings on easy terms. It has also been able to
lend to the commercial and industrial sectors on a profitable basis. The
Government has now indicated that: PNGDB should become financially viable;
it is not likely to receive grants at past levels; reasonable rates of in-
terest would be charged on funds onlent to it (para 20 & 21).
XI. Planning & Budgetary Control
32.        It is evident from the above details that PNGDB must exercise more
effective budgetary control and improve its financial position. This will
1/ In general, it is the practice in PNGDB to provide free or subsidised
furnished housing to all staff. Average expatriate salaries are high,
and their benefits include, in addition to housing, 6 weeks annual leave,
annual passages to Australia for the entire family and education allowan-
ces for the children. They are also entitled to terminal benefits de-
pending on the period of service.
2/  Arrears rate at June 30, 1975:  Commercial & Industrial Loans - 11.8%;
Rural and small loans 7.9%; Hire-Purchase & Equipment Loans 2.3%.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
require longer term planning which is not done now. The current practice in
PNGDB is to plan only for the ensuing financial year and even here, budgetary
control requires strengthening. An effective system of budgetary control,
management reporting, and long term planning should therefore be introduced
at an early stage 1/. The responsibility for planning and budgetary control
is now shared by the Economist and the Accountant, but since the MD and the
DMD are full time officers, the responsibility for these should rest with one
of them. Allowing for Board policy on localization, it is essential that one
of these two officers should be a qualified banker or a financial officer with
experience in a senior capacity in a banking institution.
XII. Interest Rates
33.        Interest rates in PNG have followed the Australian pattern because
of the free flow of funds between both countries. Exchange control was intro-
duced in PNG in January 1976, and thus, in future, the Australian pattern of
interest rates may not be automatically followed in PNG. The PNG practice
has been to charge lower rates of interest to Papua New Guineans and this
policy has been followed by PNGDB. The intention was to make loans attractive
to them and to help the transition from subsistence agriculture to a monetized
economy. Thus in 1969, loans below K 3,000 were given at a rate of interest
of 4-3/4% per annum to Papua New Guineans while the average rate of term lend-
ing was 6% p.a. 2/. These rates were gradually increased and in 1975, the
following interest rates were approved by the PNGDB Board: 3/
Annual Rate
Term Loans                             of Interest
Loans to Papua New Guineans             8% - maximum
Expatriates                            10% - (but variable according
to changes in trading
bank rates)
Equipmment Finance & Hire-Purchase
Papua New Guineans                     11% - (effective rate)
Expatriates                            13% - (effective rate)
1/ The systems and procedures consultancy which has just commenced will look
into these aspects also (see para 13 and Appendix 4).
2/ This rate was charged to expatriates.
3/ PNGDB's annual interest rate policy is determined in February each year.
The 1976 rates had not been decided on at the time of appraisal.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
34.        The prevailing annual interest rates in PNG for lending at the
time of appraisal were:
Normal Commercial loans   11.5%;
Larger Commercial loans   12% and over;
Treasury Bill and Deposit rates varied around 8%.
XIII. Audit Arrangements/Quarterly Reporting
35.         PNGDB's accounts are audited annually by the Auditor General of
PNG. The audited accounts are presented in a very condensed form in accor-
dance with the schedule given in the PNGDB Act. These are not satisfactory
for Bank purposes. Arrangements have therefore been made with PNGDB and the
Auditor General that the preparation of accounts and audit reporting would be
done for the Bank in accordance with World Bank Group guidelines on the audit
of Development Finance Companies 1/. PNGDB will also be requested to forward,
with quarterly project reports, statements relating to its financial posi-
tion in a format acceptabe to the Bank.
XIV. Lending to Foreign Enterprises by PNGDB
36.        During appraisal, there were discussions between the Ministry of Fi-
nance and PNGDB on the subject of lending to foreign enterprises. There was a
directive that PNGDB should not, without prior permission from the Minister of
Finance, lend to foreign enterprises 2/ where such loans exceeded 25% of the
capital employed in such organizations. The MD felt that if the directive was
followed, it would have far reaching consequences for the operations of PNGDB.
The mission was finally informed that the directive would not be operative for
some time and that further discussions were taking place on this subject.
37.        If major changes are to be introduced, the overall effects of
such changes on PNGDB's operations should be considered in advance and Board
Policy changed accordingly.
XV. Conclusion
38.        Past IDA credits 3/ have been channelled through PNGDB and have
been operated/are being operated satisfactorily. Two of the three credits,
1/ World Bank Group's Illustrative Form of Audit Report for Development
Finance Companies - dated January 1973.
2/ Where more than 25% of the issued capital is held by non Papua New Guineans.
3/ Credits 137-PNG (completed), 175-PNG (nearing completion) and 348-PNG
(in operation).



ANNEX 2
Page 13
137-PNG and 175-PNG were also oil palm projects and therefore PNGDB is well
wxperienced in lending for smallholder oil palm development. PNGDB has al-
ready set up a branch office in Popondetta 1/ to serve the project area. It
is therefore considered a suitable institution for the channeling of small-
holder credit for the proposed project. However, in order to make PNGDB a
stronger institution the following assurances were received during nego-
tiations: (a) the Board Policy Statement would be brought up-to-date to
include PNGDB's policies on investment and management of subsidiary companies
and lending for hire-purchase and equipment finance (para 5); (b) accounts
of companies controlled by PNGDB would be audited externally by suitable
auditors; when such companies are sold, the buyers would be charged a fair
price based on a valuation (para 27); (c) the Bank would be consulted on the
terms and conditions of future appointments to the posts of MD and DMD (paras
6 and 32); (d) PNGDB would institute at an early date an effective system of
budgetary control, management reporting and long term planning (para 32); and
(e) PNGDB audit report and accounts would be prepared in accordance with World
Bank Group guidelines on the audit of Development Finance Companies (para 35).
1/ Popondetta was set up as a "rep" office in 1970 and upgraded to branch
status in 1974 in preparation for the proposed oil palm project.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Papua Now Guinea Development Bank
2!
Organization Chart - February. 1976
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
A.R. REIMAN  53  1
IDEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR
M.G. IANGALIO  27    7   2/                    A
I                        I                     I              ______I 
MANGER-TECHNICAL      MANAG1R-OPERATIONS       MAGR-PROJECTS          MANAGER-BRANCHES      ECONOMIST      MANAGER-ACCOUNTS       MANAGER-AN N.
& SECRETARY
S.A. REID  39    9    R.L. BZNETT   38   7   S. BJlEN   34    3       P.L. CROKE  44  8   DR. B.SHAW       P.D. CoOTE 41   7    P. PATTTSTER
38 12                                 39    7
Inspection & apprai-  All lending func-        Bank Secretarial;      Adinistration &      Economic plan- Accounting;            Staff & training;
sal, Managesent      tionI & control          Village Economic       control of all       ning & fore-    Budgets;              Bank premises;
services & Prom-    thereof; Security         Development Fund       branches             casting; Sta-  Investment of          Vehicles;
tional activities;    documentation                                                       tistics.        funds                 General security;
Subsidiary companies
1/  Figures in boxes represent age. of officers and their years of service with PNGDB.
2/ On scholarship with PNG University for first four years of career.



PAPUA NI GINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHDLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Develormnt Bank
Staff Numbers 1973-1978
1973            12774-           1975             1976             197              1978
Total- Overseas  Total Overseae  Total Ovwse.  Total Overseas  Total Oversese  Total Ov rsas
Staff  Staff    Staff  Staff    Staff Staff       Staff  Staff    Staff  Staff    Staff  Staff
HEAD OFFICE
Management                                                               3       2         3      2         3      2
Operations                                                              27       7       22       5        22      5
Special Projects                                                         6       1         6      1         6      1
Administration                                                          17       4        24      5        24      4
Branches                                                                 5       2         5      2         6      2
Technical                                                               26      12        26      8        26      8
Accounts                                                                50       2        30      2        26      1
Economist's Dept.                                                        5       2         6      2         6      1
Internal Audit                                                           1       -         2      1         2      -
Unattached
Systenu, Methoda                                                          1      1         2      1         2      -
Total Head Office       93     33        92    40        143    41        141     33       126     29       123     24
Branches                79     25       127    19       140    26        162      21       185     14       196     10
Scho'larsh1rs           17      -        20     -         12     -          7      -        10      -        10      -
Grand Total            189     58       239    59        295    67        310     54       321     43       329      34
1/
Percentage-Overmeas
Staff                    34%              27%             24%             18%                14%              111%
I/  Percentage on total staff, excluding full time scholership-holder



ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Agricultural Credit Specialist
1. Objectives
The objectives are (a) to help DPI and PNGDB to improve their per-
formance in smallholder credit operat:ions in agriculture and (b) assist in
the training of DPI and PNGDB field staff for the above purpose.
2. Specialists Duties
In order to fulfill the above objectives, the speialist will
assist in:
(a)   developing lending criteria, including their terms and conditions
and set up lending procedures;
(b)   drawing up of farm models for lending purposes;
(c)   building a corps of loan officers and help enhancing appraisal
standards;
(d)   instituting standard procedures for portfolio supervision and
maintaining adequate repayment/collection performance; and
(e)   setting up a program of training of field technicians from DPI
or other government departments and PNGDB with special emphasis
on strengthening their capability in: (i) supporting the above
aspects and, (ii) identification of economically and financially
viable smallholder agricultural projects.
3. Qualifications
The specialist should:
(a)   be proficient in the English language;
(b)   have an academic background (at least a Bachelor's Degree) in
agricultural economics or economics with a banking background;
(c)   have experience in administering agricultural credit programs
in a developing country; and
(d)   be familiar with financial and economic analysis of projects.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Development Bank
Terms of Reference for Consultants
(Systems & Procedures)
1. Introduction:
The Government of Papua New Guinea requires a systems and procedures
specialist to advise on the introduction of simplified work methods in the
Department of Primary Industry (DPI) and the PNG Development Bank (PNGDB).
The position will be for one year with a possible extention for a year and
will be financed out of savings on IDA Credit 175 until June 30, 1976 and
thereafter from savings in Credit 348. The specialist will be employed by the
Government of PNG.
2. Specific Duties:
(a)   The design and introduction of simplified work procedures
for DPI and PNGDB officers covering agricultural develop-
ment programs and associated agricultural credit delivery
systems to smallholders with the emphasis on cost effective-
ness;
(b)   The design and introduction of simplified clerical work
procedures within the PNGDB covering the disbursement,
recording and recovery of agricultural credit;
(c)   To achieve this it will be necessary to:
(i) investigate and recommend improvements in the lines of
communication between DPI and PNGDB;
(ii) investigate and recommend improvements in the organi-
zation of the PNGDB accounts department and in the
work flow between HQ and branches; and
(iii) introduce a simple but effective overall management
reporting and control system for DPI and PNGDB.
(d)   The design and implementation of accounting and reporting
systems for subsequent project to provide data for manage-
ment and financial control, and for future project evaluations;



ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
Page 2
(e)   Other duties may include advice on management struc-
ture aspects of future projects, and comment to manage-
ment on performance and reporting of commercial businesses
owned and/or controlled by PNGDB;
(f)   The implementation stage will require a substantial training
input and the design of simple manuals. This will involve
the preparation and delivery of introductory and explanatory
sessions for all staff :Levels;
(g)   The recruitment and training of local counterpart(s) capable
of maintaining continuity after the assignment has ended; and
(h)   The work will require field trips to DPI and PNGDB offices.
3. Reporting:
The Systems and Procedures Specialist will report to a Coordinating
Committee comprising the Secretary of Finance, the Director of DPI and Manag-
ing Director of PNGDB. For administrative purposes only the specialist will
report to the Secretary of Finance. Within 3 months of his arrival in PNG,
the specialist will submit a brief inception report which will comment on the
work program ad terms of reference and make recommendations for any changes.
Thereafter, the specialist will submit brief quarterly progress reports and a
final report.



gNNX 2
Appenix 5
PAPUA NNW QUNftA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDf?, OIL PAlM DFVLOPMENT rlROJET
Papua Now aiuea DevlooMnt Bank
List of PloB Ofceou a At Feb.1976
PROVINCE                  BRANCH                      SUB-BRANCH           REP.OMCR:
PAPUAN REGION:
Central Prov:            Port M1kresby (Boroko)
(Jan. 1972)
Milne Bay Provi                                       Alotau
(Aug. 1975)
Western Province:                                                         Daru
(Oct. 1970)
Gulf Province:                                                            Keremna
(Oct. 1972)
Northern Prov:            Popondetta
(Nov. 1974)
N.G. COASTAL REGION:
Morobe Province:         LAE
(Nov. 1971)
Madang Province:                                     Madang
(May, 1975 )
East Sepik Prov:
West Sepik Provinces                                                      Aitape
(Oet. 1975)
NG. HIGHIANDS REGION:
Western Highlands Prov: Mt. Hagen
(Sept. 1971)
Eastern Highlands Prov:                              Goroka
(Oct. 1974)
Southern Highlands Prov:                                                  Mendi
(Augg. 1 971)
Chimbu Province:                                                          Kunkiawa
(Jan. 1976)
Enga Province:                                                            WABAG
(Aug. 1975)
;,.G. ISLANDS R19ION:
East New Britain Prov:  Rabaul
(Mar. 1971)
New Ireland Prov:                                                         Kavieng
(Oct. 1970)
Namatanai
(Aug. 1975)
Marms Province:
West New Britain Prov:   Kimbe
(Mar. 1973,
Bougainville Prov:       Arawa
(Aug. 1973)
1/ Dates of establishment are shown in parenthesis. Some offices were of lower statue
ir. earlier years.



ANNEX 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                             Table 1
POPONDeTTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PapU" New Guinea Develoeant Bank
Balance Sheets
(K'000)
M2                1974              1975
ASSETS                                   ActuLal   %       Actual   %        Actual   %
,iquid Funds
Cash at Bank & Deposits                 3786    17        6736    25        3525    12
Investments
Stocks, Convertible Notes etC.          2873    13        2936    11        3239    11
Bank Projects; Retirement Fund            411               75               145     1
Loans
Hire Purchase & Eqip. Finance           19907    9        1048     8        5392    18
Oil Palm & RFLral                       45L43    20      L4329    16        3228    11
Other Small Loans (less than
K 10,000)           2062     9        2412     9        2945    10
Commercial & IndU9trial                 5077    23        6083    23        8289    28
13589    61       14l872    56      19854    67
Less Provision for Doubtful Debts          2599    1         384     1         618      2
13290    60       1i4488    55      19236    65
Native Loans Board & Ex-serviCien's    5896                 5371              4065
Less Reserve Fund & Provision for same  560)7               5559              4282
289     1        (188)   (1)       (217)   (1)
Bank Preomass (less Depreciation)         1147     5        1181      5       2797      9
Bills Receivable                            70               112      1        143      1
Other Assets                               825     L 4      1148     4         585      2
22321   100       264*88   100      29453   100
20=23tt=: Z       ta mum  .cDwt             IC=W
LIABILITIES
Capital                                  209113    94      23753    90       25435    87
Profit & Loss Account                     (989)   (4)       (947)   (4)       (930)   (3)
Loans from Government
IDA                                     1588     7        1843     7        2735     9
ADB                                              -         800     3         800     3
Bills Payable/Due to other Banks           3(8     1         463     2         64d      2
Deposits & Current Liabilities             176     1         232      1        391      1
Provision for Contingencies                325     1         J71     1         378      1
22321   100       26488   100       29453   100
ta-t Me- ===              mm=ss      ast    --s



ANNEX 2
Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Develomaent Bank
Profit and Loss Accounts
(K't 000)
Year Ended June 30        1972          1973          194           197           1976
-----  Actuals ---------------------------- Forecast
Income                                            %             %             %            %
Interest on Loans          894   74    1121   77    1157   65    1693   66    22ULU  75
Dividends & Deb. Int.       72    6       92    7       94    5      207    8       50    1
Interest on Liquid Funds  140   12       132    9      438   24      511   20      400   14
Other                      102    8      105    7      100    6      167    6      286   10
Total Income                 1208  100    1450  100    1789  100    2578  100    2936  100
Expenditure
Interest on Loans            14    1       22    2       45    2       65    3       50    2
Admin. Expences            1032   86    1223   84    1534   86    2195   85    2643   90
1046   87    1245   86    1579   88    2260   88    2593   92
Net Profit/Loss before        =w           minu   am    m=   am .=    mm              =m    =a
Depreciation/Provisions      162           205           210           318           243
Depreciation                    58    5      76    5       85    5      100    4      150    5
Provision for Bad &
Doubtful Debts               100    8      160   11      100    6      174    6      180    6
Net Profit/Loss (
Annual                         4           (31)  (2)      15    1       44    2      (87)  (3)
100          100           100           100           100
was                          .,, ..= usa          ,     s.
Not Profit/Loss
Cumulative                   (958)         (989)        (974)          (930)       (1017)



ANNEX 2
Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Developnernt Bank
Analysis of Administrative Expenses
(K'OOO)
Year ended June 30,  1973         1974        1225         1976
--------  Actuals  ----     -      Forecast
Board& Staff:
Directors fees, salaries
& wages and allowances         773         1002        1449         1884
Staff provident fund, super-
anuation & pension              18           21          39           39
Contract officers benefit
fund                            12           12          15            -
Gratuities provision              -            -          76            -
Board expenses                   17           15          15           10
Travelling                         98          143         189          232
Insurances:
Provision for deceased
borrovers                        -            8          15           20
Other insurance                  33           28          31           41
Premises:
Rent - bank premises
& staff housing                 84          110         127           96
Maintenance & repairs            25           21          45          111
Office:
Stationery & office
requisitions                    36           37          61           60
Telephone & postage              31           32          45           47
Other                              96          105          8_          103
1223        1534         2195        2643
t=t:a:ae ~  ~ ==csr:m-ta =>



PAPUA Nkl5 UIVINLA
POPONDETTA SNALLHDnLDR OIL PALM DZVPLOPIDNT PROJECT
Papua Nov Guinea DeveloDuent Bank
Loan ADrurl
Years ended             1968               1969               1970                   1971                 1972               1973                    1974                  197S
June 30            No. Value   %      No. Value    %    No. Value    %         No.  Value   %       No.  Value   %                            No.  Value   %
Analysis by Sector
Rural            408   884.4  24   514  2175.7  39  94k  2221.4  36    1265  2103.7  48    1641  3222.6  40   933  1988.7  34.2    887  1743.3   20    1141  1884.0  19
Coiercial         65  1132.2  30    165  2514.2  45   388  2087.S  33         555  1528.9  35      593  2814.5  34   407  1728.2   29.6   548  3315.9   39          901  4630.5  45
Industrial        27  1734.2  46      44  879.9  16    94  1939.9  31         231   948.3  17      226  2137.5  26   163  2103.2  36.2    219  3488.0   41          361  3676.4  36
Total            500  3750.8  100    723 5569.8  100  1426  6248.8  100    2051  4380.9  100    2460  8174.6  100  1503  5820.1  100         1645  8547.3  100    2403 10190.9 100
.... .. ..  ....   .. ....... ..... .S.      rtal......                                                                                 ............
Analyis by Pama Now Ouinean/Zxpatriate
Papua New Guinean  422   678.3  30    539   822.5  15  1184  1688.7  34    1938  2381.5  56    2266 4002            49  1392  2921     50.2   1529  3461.4   40    2182  5818.4  57
Expatriate        66  1207.0  54    167 4232.2  78   220  2878.1   59         103  1764.4  42      181  3664      45    92  1431     24.6    108  2531.4   30       187  3591.5   35
Joint enterprises 10   365 5   16     13  392.6    7    18   3466.s   7         7    97.2    2      11   481       6    15  1429     24.5      17  2554.5   30       34   853.0    8
Total loans      498  2250.8  100    719 5447.3  100  1422  4913.2  100    2048  4243.1  100    2458  8147    100  1499  5781    100         1654  8547.3  100    2403 10190.9  100
................    ........................ ........ ............ _    ... ................ ............................ ....... ..............   ............ _...... .............. ....................... . _................ _,_...._
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
lip



ANNEX 2
Table 5
PAPUA NEW GUJINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Deyelol2ent Bank
ARricultural Loans to Papua New Guineans - FY 1975
Number       %        Values        %          Average value
K'OOO                     of loans
K.
Cattle, pigs
& poultry        541       43%        1108.3       66%            2040
Oil palm           101        8%         232.4       14%            230C
Fishing            236       19%          68.5        4%              290
Processing         137       11%          95.9        5%             700
Rubber             141       11%          53.8        3%             382
Copra & coffee      31        2%          24.0        2%             774
Others              82        6%         107.4        6%            1310
Total             1269      100%       1690.3       100%            1332
uwesm:m  icn=as      u=4$ ra =cz t-



PAPU  NV  WUINR
POPONIXTTA SNALIDLHDR OIL PALK ==OPKIWT PEDJECT
Pwia Nw 0uinea Daeolsent Bank
Bank Controlled Companies
(KINAS)
Balances JUly 1. '75   ParchasesAdditions FY7   BA es June 30. '75   Percentage  P10DB Loans    Rate
No. of        Book       No. of          Nook     lo. of        Book          of                       Of
Shares       Value       Shares         Vale      Shares       Value          ty       June 30.*'7U: Int
Hamond Motor Pty. Ltd.
(Clearing Contractors-Port Moresby)          6600        6600                                 6600         6600        85S         16513         8S
Workabout Footear Pty. Ltd.
(Thong manufacturer-Port Moresby)           10000       10000           (502)       (502)     84s98        8498        85%         58714z        8%
Nationwide Rent a Car Pty. Ltd.
(Rent a Ca Opertor-Port Horesby)                                    180000        180000    180000       180000        80%        150000         8%
Ocean Trading Co. Pty. Ltd.
(Wholemalers & Retailers-Port Moresby)                                 800             2       800            2       100%        34s6501        8%
Sugu Bualakan Kampani
(Cattle Rnchers)                                                     70000         70000     70000        70000       100%
Gereh Superuarket Pty. Ltd.
(Proposed supermrket operator)                                          20           150        20          150       100%
Hbaama Press Pty. Ltd.
(Printing Company)                                                   52000         52000     52000        52000        79%        loWS618         8%
16600                   301650                 317250                   676346
_=SeDr           -w=lfl                   =fst==



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Oil Palm Development and Research
Hoskins Oil Palm Project
1.        Oil palm was introduced' into PNG in 1967.  The first commercial
planting was established in 1968 in the Hoskins area in the West Nakanai
Division of West New Britain Province by New Britain Palm Oil Development
Comapny Ltd. (NBPOD). The share capital of NBPOD is owned in equal propor-
tions by Government and Harrisons and Crossfield Ltd. (H & C), an overseas
plantation company well experienced in the oil palm industry. NBPOD was
granted a 99 year lease of 4,000 ha of land east of Kimbe, between Talasea
and Hoskins (Map 1) for the purpose of establishing an oil palm plantation
as a nucleus estate.
2.        NBPOD, through three wholly-owned subsidiary companies, owns and
operates the nucleus estate, the palm oil mill and oil tank farm, and the
transport fleet, serving the needs of both nucleus estate and smallholders.
Under agreement with Government, NBPOD provides processing facilities to
smallholder oil palm farmers settled in the surrounding areas. The smallholder
oil palm development in the Hoskins area is being undertaken by Government
with financial assistance from IDA under Credits 137 and 175-PNG. The two
IDA credits were planned to assist some 1,560 settlers and villagers plant
about 5,600 ha of oil palm. To date, about 2,500 ha oil palm has been planted
on the nucleus estate and about 6,050 ha by some 1,750 smallholders.
3.        Each settler has been assisted to establish about 4 ha of oil
palm on his block, together with a food garden and a basic house. The
settlers live on their blocks within walking distance of the community center,
where the basic amenities of an administrative building, primary school,
medical post and small shops are provided. Extension service and welfare
services staff are housed in this center.
4.        Harvesting of FFB on the first plantings started in FY72.  Because
of the unexpectedly high initial FFB yields, the earlier than expected coming
into production of the oil palm sitands and the high world market prices for
palm oil and palm kernels in 1974, smallholders' earnings have been well in
advance of expectations and about 37% of the smallholders have already repaid
their loans.
5.        Since IDA has only been involved in financing the smallholder devel-
opment aspects of the Hoskins project, it has not had influence on the oil mill



ANNEX 3
Page 2
design and on the machinery installed. The oil mill from the outset suf-
fered from insufficient capacity and inadequate machinery. The capacity
problem was contributed to by the project's major success that is that
estate and smallholder yields were much higher and earlier than had been
assumed at the planning stage. These problems have resulted in consider-
ably reduced palm oil extraction and palm kernel recovery rates with con-
sequent reduced returns to the nucleus estate and the smallholders. NBPOD
has taken steps to improve processing efficiency by (i) replacing the
hydraulic presses in the first processing line with more effective screw
presses and (ii) by installing machinery with proven capacity to handle
Tenera FFB in its recently constructed second processing line which in-
creased milling capacity from about 30 to about 60 tons FFB per hour.
6.        The success of the smallholder oil palm development is mainly
due to a group of staff of the Department of Primary Industry (DPI) who
were very personally involved with the project's generation and success-
ful implementation. Services that were not initially provided by special-
ized agencies were provided, as best as was possible, by DPI officers.
A major improvement could have been achieved in the early days if PNGDB
staff had been in the field from the outset.
7.        The project has experienced delays in the settlement program
due to legal problems associated with the reallocation of blocks which had
become vacant or which were never claimed by the successful applicants. Of
the original applicants selected as many as 10% did not take up residence
at their blocks and a further 5% experienced difficulties from the outset
due to infirmities such as old age and therefore unable to implement the
oil palm development satisfactorily. Although legal forfeiture procedures
have improved to allow rapid reallocation of blocks allocated but not
occupied, they are still cumbersome in the case of blocks occupied but
subsequently vacated.
8.        Since there are generally far more applications than available
blocks, the selection of potentially poor-performing settlers could be
avoided by applying improved settler selection criteria. Thus, based on
experience gained in the Hoskins project, other settlement projects and
proven techniques of settler selection in Malaysia, the Department of Lands,
in collaboration with DPI and PNGDB, has drawn up new criteria for settler
selection. These will be used to select settlers for the Popondetta Small-
holder Oil Palm Development Project (paras 21 to 23).
Agronomic Aspects of Oil Palm Cultivation
9.        Experience in the Hoskins project and with trial plots in different
areas have proven that the oil palm grows and yields very well in PNG due to
favorable soil and climatic conditions. Also, unlike in most other countries,
a Pueraria cover crop is easily established. It is noteworthy that this
cover overgrows and eradicates lalang (Imperata Cylindrica - an obnoxious
weed) without any other method of control necessary. Oil palm in PNG grows



ANNEX 3
Page  3
about 100 to 120 cm per annum and produces about 3 leaves per month in its
younger stages; in the later stages it grows about 90 cm per annum and pro-
duces 2 to 2.5 leaves per month.  FFB production starts about 2.5 to 3 years
after planting; all inflorescences which develop up to six months before
commencement of harvesting are castrated. During the first ten years of
production, assisted pollination is required to maintain optimal yields.
Suitable pollen supplies are obtained from all smallholders' blocks. Mixing
of viable pollen with talcum powder is done at the nucleus estate and DASF
personnel distributes the mixture among the smallholders. Because of the
rapid growing characteristics, oil palms may have to be replanted after
26 years, or 23 years of production life.
10.       In order to maintain the high initial yields, fertilizers will
have to be applied as the initial high soil fertility declines. However,
the exact fertilizer requirement under local conditions is not known,
although fertilizer experiments at Dami Research Station indicate that:
(a) increasing muriate of potassium applications result
in highly significant FFB yield increases; however,
with increasing applications, potassium levels in the
fronds decrease while chlorine and calcium levels
increase;
(b) increasing nitrogen applications result in highly
significant growth increments (leaf production, leaf
area and height of the palm) but contrary to findings
in West Africa, Malaysia and Indonesia do not result
in yield increases;
(c) sulphur, either elementary or in the form of sulphate,
may become an important element, since it has a highly
significant effect on coconut yields in PNG; and
(d) trace elements such as magnesium, manganese and boron
may become important in the future.
So far fertilizer know-how gained from Malaysia and Indonesia experience
has been applied in the oil palm plantings in PNG, but it is becoming
clear that on young volcanic soils, with high pH values, other factors have
to be considered. New criteria for nutrient levels in the leaves have to
be established before foliar analysis can become a useful tool for fertilizer
recommendations. It could take about five to ten years of research before
such criteria could be established. The agronomist at Dami has recommended
for the New Brita[n area that in the interim the following fertilizers be
applied:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(a) 250 grams of sulphate of ammonia per palm, three
months after planting;
(b) no fertilizers be applied during the immature
stage; and
(c) due to harvesting and pruning losses, nutrients
are to be replaced after year 4 based on foliar
analyses.
Phasing of the Project
11.       A time schedule of settlement procedures is presented in Table 1.
In drawing up this schedule due allowance has been made for the process of
advertisements for the blocks, selection of the settlers, transport of the
settler from his home village to the block, land preparation and planting
of oil palm on the block. These procedures are expected to take about one
year. In Chart 2 an implementation schedule is presented of the planting
operations, the settler selection procedures, mill construction and the
infrastructure.
12.       Three types of smallholders would participate in this project:
the existing settlers who would replant their ravaged cocoa areas with oil
palms, the new settlers who will plant oil palms in felled forest, and
villagers who live in the project area and are interested in oil palm
cultivation. The existing and new settlers would plant 4 ha each, all in
one year. The villagers, however, would plant 2 ha annually in two suc-
cessive years, because their social obligations in the village would not
enable them to plant 4 ha all in one year.
13.       The new settlers would be grouped in sub-divisions, each com-
prising about 250 families, around the nucleus estate. The Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) would, in joint venture with Government,
establish a 4,000 ha nucleus estate at Popondetta and also an oil mill with
an ultimate capacity of 60 tons FFB per hour (Annex 4). The nucleus estate
and factory companies would provide the following services to the smallholders:
(a) supply suitable and adequate planting material;
(b) purchase and process smallholders' FFB, and market
all oil and kernel produced;
(c) service the transport fleet of the smallholder FFB
transport company; and
(d) provide training facilities and agricultural technical
advisory services.



ANNEX 3
Page  5
Planting
14.       In the Hoskins project, initially plantings were spaced 150 palms
to the ha, planted in a triangle. HIowever, palm growth in these plantings
was so prolific, that the stand was decreased to 120 palms per ha, planted
in a triange for all plantings after January 1973. This decrease in the
stand is not expected to adversely affect yields. Since palm growth in the
Popondetta trial plots is comparable to palm growth in the Hoskins project,
a stand of 120 palms per ha will be maintained, or 480 palms per 4 ha small-
holder block.  Holdings of this size, supplemented by subsistence food gardens,
have shown to provide the incentive to attract the required family labor
inputs as presented in Table 2. It is expected that family incomes resulting
from the project would increase from the estimated subsistence level of K 516
per annum to an income of about K 1,500 per annum. The planting program for
the nucleus estate and the smallholdLers is presented in Table 3.
FFB Yields
15.       In the project area the rainfall varies from 2,500 to 3,500 mm per
annum, two-thirds of which falls from November to April. Although the period
June to August is relatively dry, Popondetta still receives an average rainfall
of 100 mm a month during this spell. The relative humidity is high, averaging
over 80% throughout the year. Average daily sunshine varies from 5 hours in
October to 6 hours in August, totalling about 2,100 sunshine hours over the
year. The minimum and maximum temperatures vary between 21.5oC and 31.loC,
with an annual mean of 26.50C. Soils are of volcanic origin and free draining.
The pH values range from 6.3 to 6.9 (average 6.5) and are higher than those
in oil palm plantings in Malaysia and Indonesia. The soils in the project
area generally have a light texture and vary from loamy sands to sandy clays.
Their nutrient status is satisfactory, although fertilizers would be required
to maintain high yields. Soils and climatic conditions are optimal to ideal
for oil palm growing.
16.       FFB yield estimates for the nucleus estate and smallholders are
presented in Table 4. These estimates are based on CDC studies and on the
performance of the two oil palm trial plots in Saiho and the Popondetta
Agricultural Training Institute (PATI). Smallholder yields are estimated
at about 80% of the nucleum estate's performance; the latter compares
favorably with yields obtained from estates in Malaysia and in Indonesia.
FFB, oil and kernel production estimates of the nucleus estate and the
smallholders are presented in Table 5. CDC has proposed to erect a 60 ton
FFB per hour oil mill. In Table 6 a review is presented of required mill
capacities, assuming two different levels of peak production. At the proj-
ect's maximum production level (FY88) an oil mill with a 60 ton FFB pet hour
capacity, working 500 hours per month (peak period), would be satisfactory.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Smallholder Oil Palm Development Costs
17.       PNGDB would provide loans to settlers and villagers participating
in the project. These loans which would cover the on-farm and the settlement
costs would be different for existing settlers, new settlers and villagers.
18.       The on-farm oil palm development costs would include:  a house,
land preparation, harvest and inspection paths, cover crop seed, oil palm
seedlings, tools and equipment, fertilizers, and pest and disease control.
These costs vary for the three types of smallholders as described in the
following notes:
(a) House: all smallholders would be provided a house on
their oil palm block. A simple skillion roofed wooden
building, about 6 x 3 m, with a water tank (about 2.3 m3),
would cost K 700. These houses would be pre-fabricated
and the smallholders, with the assistance of a carpenter,
would build their own houses: the new settler in the
year of oil palm establishment and the existing settlers
and villagers the year after;
(b) Land Preparation: prior to the arrival of the new settlers,
Government contractors would fell the trees on 4.5 ha on
each block - 4 ha for oil palm planting and 0.5 ha for the
house and food gardens. The costs of contract felling are
estimated at K 140 per holding. The settlers would themselves
complete the land clearing operations. Existing settlers and
villagers would receive a loan of K 40, as an incentive to
undertake land clearing on their own;
(c)  Harvest and Inspection Paths:  each smallholder would establish
paths between every other row in his planting. The cost for
this operation is estimated at K 20 per holding;
(d) Cover Crop: the cost of establishig a legume cover is
estimated at K 10 per holding. Most Pueraria seeed would
be imported from Malaysia or Indonesia because the evenly
distributed rainfall in PNG throughout the year hampers
seed production locally. Quarantine regulations stipulate
that imported seed has to be examined in Brisbane's Quarantine
Station before release into PNG;
(e) Oil Palm Seedlings: the nucleus estate would raise the oil
palm seedlings in poly-bags. Dami Research Station has been
providing high-yielding planting material since 1975. The
cost of a seedling (including transport to the smallholder's
block) is estimated at K 1.20 or K 576 per 4 ha holding;



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(f) Tools and Equipment: all srnallholders would be provided
with a loan for the purchase of necessary tools and equip-
ment such as axes, spades, fEiles, bush knife, wheel barrow,
pollen bottles and harvesting chisels in the third year
after planting, estimated at K 138; however, new settlers
would also be provided with a loan for the purchase of
household goods in the first year, estimated at K 110.
Replacement of the tools is estimated at K 15 per annum;
(g)  Fertilizers:  since no definite fertilizer recommendations
can be made, the provision of fertilizer costs are based
on experience in the Hoskins project and on Dami Research
Station findings. Experience in Malaysia and Indonesia
has also been taken into account, although conditions are
different from PNG. However, following experience in
coconut cultivation in the Popondetta area, provision has
been made to include sulphur in the fertilizer program to
avoid possible deficiencies. The following tentative
fertilizer schedule has been used for cost calculations:
-    at planting                    - 100 grams Industrial
Sulphur per palm;
-    3 months after                 - 250 grams Sulphate of
Ammonia per palm;
-    after commencement of           - 1.5 kg Muriate of Potash
harvesting                       and 1 kg Kieserite per
palm per annum;
-    10 years after planting         - 0.75 kg Sulphate of
Ammonia per palm per
annum has been added
to the above schedule;
and
-   no fertilizer applicat-ions during the three years prior
to replanting. Fertilizer recommendations and the costs
for smallholders' plantings are presented in Table 7;
and
(h)  Pest and Disease Control:  so far the common oil palms pests
and diseases have not occurred in PNG. However, with vast
areas under oil palm, pests and diseases incidence should be
anticipated.  Provision is made for pest and disease control
at an estimated annual cost of K 20 per holding.  To ensure
that pests and diseasess arie controlled effectively, this
service would be provided by the project field management
and charged to the smallholders.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
19.       The costs of settling a smallholder's family would include:
removal expenses, subsistence and living allowances, lease preparation,
land rent, land survey fee, and loan and legal fees. PNGDB would provide
loans to the smallholders to cover the costs involved. These costs also
vary for the three types of smallholders as described in the following
notes:
(a) Removal Expenses: the average costs of moving a new
settler and his family from his home village to the
project area are estimated at K 150;
(b) Subsistance Allowance: the new settler requires money
to buy food until his food gardens start producing.
Immediately after arrival, the settler would start
planting his food garden, using planting material
provided by the extension service staff. About five
months after planting, the garden should provide
sufficient food for the settler and his family. Thus,
the subsistance allowance provided would cover a period
of five months at K 43 a month and would amount to
K 215 per settler;
(c) Living Allowance: for new settlers, who may have insuf-
ficient income until their oil palm plantings start pro-
ducing, a living allowance of K 10 per month would, during
the first three years, be provided to meet their needs
other than food;
(d) Lease Preparation: the initial lease preparation fee is
K 10 per new settler;
(e) Land Rent: all new and existing settlers would pay an
annual rent of K 30 per holding; and
(f) Land Survey Fee: new settlers would pay a K 150 fee for
having his block surveyed and for having cement markers
placed at the block corners; and the fee to be paid in
the year after planting.
20.       Table 8 summarizes oil palm development costs; farm models for the
new settler, the existing settler and the villager are presented in Tables 9
to 11 and a summary for the smallholder oil palm project development costs is
presented in Table 12.
Settler Selection
21.       Selection of applicants for settlement on an oil palm block will be
done by the Land Board, a statutory body of the Department of Lands, under pro-
vision of the Land Act. Settler selection would be on a nationwide basis, but
preference will be given to applicants from the Northern Province.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
22.       Generally, there are far more applications for settlement than there
are blocks available and it would be possible to select settlers who would
meet the following criteria:
(a) Married (monogamous) with 2 to 4 children;
(b) Ideally about 30 years old;
(c) Healthy and physically fit;
(d) Having a satisfactory educational standard;
(e) Being able to communicate either in English or
in pidgin;
(f) Satisfactory character references;
(g) Having experience in tree crops cultivation;
(h)  Being landless or having land unsuitable for
cash crops; and
(i) Having vocational experience.
23.       Points would be awarded for the above criteria and the Land Board
would select future settlers among those applicants scoring the highest number
of points. A points system has been successfully used in a rubber settlement
scheme and this system will be considered for settler selection for the
Popondetta smallholder oil palm development project.
Oil Palm Research
24.       Currently, oil palm research is concentrated in the Dami Research
Station (Hoskins project area). This Research Station is owned and operated
by NBPOD. One agronomist is in charge of all field trials and experiments.
Research is mainly directed at progeny testing of high-yielding material
ex-Malaysia. Harrisons Flemming Advisory Services with assistance from an
independent qualified geneticist have selected promising parent palms (Dura
and Pisifera), which would provide high-yielding Tenera planting material.
In the progeny trials some "dumpy" material from Malaysia is included, but
serious research on developing high-yielding dwarfs has not yet started.
Other research activities are restricted to spacing and fertil-4zer trials.
25.       Dami Research Station takes care of the research needs of the
Hoskins project on New Britain. Because the Popondetta area has different
soil and climatic characteristics, oil palm research needs of thin area have
to be specially taken care of. The two oil palm observation plots at Saiho
(sandy clay loam derived from volcanic deposits, annual rainfall 3,400 mm)
and at PATI (loamy sand, annual rainfall 2,400 mm) show striking differences



ANNEX 3
Page 10
in growth and production. These differences are mainly due to the different
soil and climatic conditions and partly to differences in maintenance standards
in the past.
26.       A research program for the Popondetta area should focus on fertilizer
research on the loam and sandy soils to establish optimal nutrient levels in
the fronds, upon which foliar analysis could be used for making firm recommen-
dations for fertilizer applications appropriate for these soil types. These
fertilizer experiments could be combined with spacing experiments in order to
establish an optimal stand per ha.
27.       Smallholders would also benefit from the outcome of castration and
intercropping experiments. The former would establish the optimal time to
which FFB production should be postponed to avoid over-bearing of the palms
which could result in fluctuating and even decreasing yields. The latter would
establish the agricultural standards and the economics of intercropping food
crops between the oil palms during the first eighteen months after planting.
28.       Progeny testing of high yielding ex-Malaysia material and of dwarf
hybrids (E. Oleifera x E. Guineensis) will be left to Dami Research Station.
Oil palm breeding is a long-term research program and results could be applied
when the present plantings are due for replanting.
29.       PNG Government intends to have research as described in para 26,
carried out at the nucleus estate with the possibility that the scientific
input of the program be provided by Dami Research Station and the day to
day management of the experiments be provided by the nucleus estate company.
Experimental results could be interpreted by Dami Research Station staff
and be made available to the PNG oil palm industry.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEV2OPMaIT PROJT-'T
Time Table for New Settlements
FYO                       FY I
Advertisements of Blocks              ,ept/Oct
Pre-felling 4.5 Ha per Holding          Oct         -----        March
Land Board Interviews                 Jan/Feb
Applicants Notified                 March/April
Appeal  Period                        30 days
Gazetting of Block Allotments        April/May
Arrival of Settlers                    June        -----          July
Establishment Food Gardens                                     July/3Sept
House Building                                                 July/Sept
Cover Crop Establishment                                       July/Sept
Field Planting Oil Palm                                         Oct/Dec



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPOONDETTA SMALLHOLDEP OIL PA2IR DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
Smallholder Labor Requirements in Mndays per lha and
in MandeYs oer Holding per Annun
--Development Period--         ----------------Oped------  ---------------Op-tionl Periad---------------- ------------ ------ --p--e
1      2      3      4        4      5       6      7      8       9      10       11      12      13       14      15      16       17      18       19      NE       21      22      23       24       25      26      27
FPlling Op-ratins1-                               7
Under 8rushing, Bn-i.nE, Praning,
Rn-stacking and Rn-bhrnIng                    15
Lini-g                                             1
Harvest Paths/Pla-timl Points                     12
C-aer Crap EstablishmenL                           5
FiPld Planting 0i  Palo                           5
Maintenance/Weeding: Cover Crop,
Oil Pain and Harvest Paths                    21     67     60               40     26     24     22      21      21      20      20       20      20       20      20      20       20      20       20      20       20      20       20      20       20      20
F-otiliat Applicatio-                              I      -      -                2      2      2      2      2        2       2       3        3       3       3        3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3       3
Castration (Ablation)                                            7
Assisted Polli-ati-n                                                            15      16     17     18     20      20       20      20      20       20
Fr-nd Pruninog                                                                                  4      4      4        5               5        5       6       6        6       6        7       7        7       7       8        8       8        8      10       10
Bnnoh H-anvot/Trans-Prt Co Roadside              _- _                            10     14     18     20     22      22       23      23      23       23      22      22       22      22       21      21       21      21       20      20       20      20      20
Total                                         67     67    67                67     62     65     66     69       70      70      71       71      72       51      51      51       52      51       51      51       52      51      51       48       50      50
____ __________  ________ _ _________ ------------ --_----- --_-----------------Mandays per Holding (4ha) ------------------------------_--_____________---------------------------------------
Noe Snttlements                                 240    268    268              268   248    260   264   276    280          280      284     284      288     204     204      204     208      204     204      204     208      204     204      192     200      200
Emisting Settlements                            268   268   268                268   240    260   264    276    280         280      284     284      288     204     204      204     208      204     204      204     208      204     204      192     200     200
village Huldings-/                              134    134    134    -         134    124    130   132    138       140      140     142     142      144     102      102     102     104      102     102      102     104      102     102       96     100      100     -
-     134    134   134        -     134    124    13(    132      138     140      140     142      142     144     102      102     102      104     102     102      102      104     102      102      06     100      1OP
134    268    268   134       134    258    254    262    270      278      280     282     284      286     246      204     204     206      206     204      204     206      206     204      198     196      200     100
1/  Felling opesa tiins only for ersitig sottlern and villagers:  felling operations far noe  settors ore done by  -onraotors.
2/ 4 ha will be developed ovnr 2 years at 2 ho oath year.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planting Program (Ha) for Smallholders and the Nucleus Estate
1/
---- FY 78         ----FY 79--    --FY 80---   ----FY 81-----FY 82----   ----Total-
Number   Ha      Number   Ha      Number   Ha      Number   Ha      Number   Ha      Number   Ha
Smallholders
Existing Settlers        75     300      50     200       38     152        37      148      -        -       200    800
New Settlers              -       -     150     600      230      920      150      600      70      280      600  2,400
Village Holdings          -       -      75     150      100      350      250      700      -       $00      425  1,700
Participants in LTC
Schemes                        -       75      150     100      350        -      200       -    _  -        75   -70
Sub-Total            75     300    350   1,100       468   1,772       437   1,648      70       780   1,400  5,600
Nucleus Estate                   400             600           1,000              1,000            1.000           4.000
TOTAL                       700          1l700             2,772              2,648            1,780           9.600
1/ July 1, 1977 to June 30, 1978.
2/ Villagers and Participants in Land Tenure Conversion schemes (425 and 175 respectively)
will develop 4 ha over 2 years at 2 ha in each year.



PA?JA Njw GUIN?A.
POPONDETTA 3MALLHOLDER OIL PAL.M DEVELOPMENT PRO.JCT
FFB, Oil and Kernel Yields in Ton/Ha
FFB Yields            Oil      Kernel --        Oil Yields -        --- ------ Kernel Yields---------
Financial             Ton/Ha              Extr.   Recov.         -Ton/Ha
Years    Nucleus Estate  3mallholders    % to FFB         Nucleus Estate  Smallholders   Nucleus Estate  Smallholders
4;1-'         8              6         18        3.0         1.44            1.08            0.240           0.180
5            17             14         19        3AL!        3.23            2.66            0.578           C.4,76
6            22             18         20        3.5         4.40            3.60            0.770           0.630
7            24             19.5       21        3.6         5.04            4.10            0.864           0.702
8            25             20         21        3.6         5.25            4.20            0.900           0.720
9            25             20         20        3.5         5.00            4.oo            0.875           0.700
10            24.5           20         19        3.4         4.66            3.80            0.833           0.680
11            24             19.5       19        3.4         4.56            3.71            0.816           0.663
12            24             19         19        3.4         4.56            3.61            0.816           0.646
13            23.5           19         19        3.4         4.47            3.61            0.799           0.646
14             23            16.5       19        3.4         4.37            3.52            0.782           0.629
15            22.5           18         19        3.4         4.28            3.42            0.765           0.612
16             22            17.5       19        3.4         4.1J            3.33            0.748           0.595
17             21.5          17         18        3.4         3.87            3.06            0.731           0.578
18             21            16.5       18        3.4         3.78            2.97            0.714           0.561
19            20             16         18        3.L         3.60            2.88            0.680           0.544
20            19.5           15.5       18        3.4         3.51            2.79            0.663           0.527
21            18,5           15         18        3.4         3.33            2.70            0.629           0.510
22            17.5           14.5       18        3.4         3.15            2.61            0.595          0o493
23            17             14         18        3.4         3.06            2.52            0.578           o.476
24            16.5           13.5       18        3.4         2.97            2.43            0.561           0.459
25            16             13         18        3.4          2.88           2.34            0.544           0.442
26            16             12.5       18        3.4          2.88           2.25            0.544           0.425
1/  Field planting completed by mid of FY 1.
,II3 .
& Ji~



Table 5
0    0      C   .0
0 0         0    o           Co          or.
0.0'                         - -  4
0  0        0  0   0
cc         'Co N             Co 0        No
00 0        oo 0             NO 0        NO 0  -           t  0        00
--          No                                  -          000         oN
00   -   -    00   .   0
0 C N 0 0' 00 0 0
000 0       0.40 0           000 N       0.00 o  .4        44.0 0      000 0 0
. .   .         . . .   .                    440         000
0004             0000        0000  0           000         Or-NC  4
000 -       000 - 0
0000    .4      .4 00 0      0000 0
0000      00000  0          N00       4-0      0        0000        OCONO  0
0000 0      044000
0000 0                 -            -  0        0000 0      0000 0 4
0    0000400           00000 0    00040 0 4
000 0    oNOCO N            NON- 0    000000  0          ...00N0 N    00000 0 0
*.400 0    04000 o                                       000000      04000 0 0
40000 0      00000                  -           0  0       00000 0    00000 0 4
0 N 0 N 0' 0    000000  0
0000 0    0000000            NNONO      004.40' 0 .4
40000 0    00000 N            NO-N 4    04400 0  0         000000      00000 0 0
00004 0    04400 0(           -000 0    00440 .4 .4        00000 0    00000 0
40000       0.4400
40000      0000000          04000 0    00N40 0 4
0000:    000400:            000004      000040  0
400400            00000      00440 4  0        00000 0    00000 0 0
0000 0                             0
00o0 0    .40000 0  0       00000 0    44000
000000    00000 0            0000 0            0  0       00000 0    00004 0 4
40000 4  0       000000      004400  0         00000 0    00000 0
of    O         000- 0  4          000        0400
000040      0.0400 0 0
0 0                          0 0 0 0 0 N    4 000.NNN
0    0    0           oNOON 0    000.0400
gi  o000      40040 4. 0        00000         000
ooOOO 0    40000 0  0        o00004      004400  0         00000 0    00000 0 0
00000       0000 0  0              0           0  0
00040 0    00400 0 0
00000 0    00000 0  0        00000 0    0000004
000000  0        000000      000040  0
01  40000 0    0.-..4000  .       000000
000000      40000 0  0       000004      00040 0  0        00000 0    00000 0 0
0000 0      -000 0  0              0           o  0
00400 0    00404 0 0
00000 0    40040 o  0        00004 0    00000 0 0
0]  00000 0    0000000            400000      00000 0  0       04000 0    0000.4 0 0
00000 4    40000 0  0         00040      00000 0  0        00000 0    00000 0 0
0000 0      0000 0  0              0           0  0
(4                                                                    00000 4    0N4,..0 0 0
o  0                                    40000 4    0000000            000404      00000 0 0
0  0 4  00000 0    00000 0  0          40000 0    00440 0  0         0.4N00 0    0000.4 0 0
. . .
0  0      00000 0    40004 0  0         00044 0    00000 0- 0         00000 0    00000 0 0
0           -000 0      0000 0  0              0           0  0
00000 0    00400 0 0
0004000          00400 0    40000 0 0
400000      0N004 0  0       000 .4   000000  0           040000      o0000 0 0
0  4           .  .
0         00000 0    00004 0  0         00444 .4   00000 0  0         00000 0    00000 0 0
0. 4.      0000 0       0000 0  0              -           -  0
0                                                                     0 0 0 0 0 0    004040  0
0  4                                    OOONO 0    00000 0  4         04000 0    00000 0 4
000040      00000 0
0  0  I                     R                                .4      040000      000004  0
00000 0    00044 0            04440      00000 0  .4       00000 0    00000 0 0
0000 0      0000 0                 0           0  0
00000 0    00004 0 0
0 4  40                                    0000 4    004oo0o            00000 0    00000 0
O     00000 0    00000 0            0040 0    00000 0  4         040000      00000 0 0
000040      000044            0444 0    00000 0  0         00000 0    00000 0 0
0      0000 0      0000 0                 0            0  0
0040 0    00000 4  0        00000 0    00400 0 0
0400 0    00400 0  0        04000 0    oOoOO 0 0
000444      00040 0           04440      oOOOO 0  0        00000 0    00-00 0 0
p                                    00000   0000004                                44
.4....           000.4 0    0040000
044440      000000            0444 0    o0000 0  0         00000 0    00000 0  0
.4000 0    00000 0  0       000000      00004 4 0
.44000 0    00000 0           0000 0    00000 0  0         00000 0    000000  0
04440 0    00400 0            0440 0    00000 0  0         00000 0    0000000
4040 0    00000 0  0        00000 0    00000 4  0
44000 0    00404 0            0000 4    0000000            04000 4    00000 0  0
0440 0 0    000000            0400 0    o4000 0  -         04000 0    0000000
00000 0    00400 0                  0    00000 4  0        04000 0    044000  0
0    00000 0  4        00000 4    00000
04004 0    000000  0         00000 0    040000  0          00000 0    0 00o000
00040 0    4040o 0  0        00040 0    00000 0  0
2    0.0.4.t0.  2                 2't't '2  0     000000      000000  0
000400      00004 0  0       00004 0    0400000            04000 0    000-000
40400 0    00000 0  .4       00400 0    00 00 0  0
t   000000      004000  0         0-0400      040000  0.        OOOOOo    000000  0
00400 0    00400 0  0        000400      040000  0         00040 0    00000 0  0
00004 0    0-004 0  0        00004 0    000040  0
04000 .4   000000  0         40404 .4   0000000            000004      ONONo 0  4
040000      000040  0        004004      0404000           00000 0    00000 0  0
0000  0    0000  4  0        0004  0    0000  0  0         0400  0    0000  0  0
000   0    4.40   4  4       .404   0    000   0  0        000   0    000   0  0
0 0 00000 4  0 00440 0             0000 4  '0 00000 0  0  0 0 00000 4  '0 00000 0  (4
0   000040  040400 0  0           (40000   00.04000   0  4.  .4.404440400044   0
0  0          0           4.  0  0       .  0           (4   0            4           (4
0 4 00000 4  0 00000 0             0000 .4  0 00000 0        0 00000 .4  4 00000 0
0. 0 00000 4  0 00040 4            0000 4  0 00040 0         0 00000 4  0 00040 4
0 4000000000000                 000000000000             0  40000 0  4 00000
44    000     C  000                00       .400           4   000         000
O   0         0                                            0   0          0



PAPUA NEIf GUINEA
POPONDETTA .MALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Required Mill Capacity in Tons FEB per Hour
FFB        Peak Month Production    ----------------------------- Mill Capacity-----------------------------
Production      at 12 - %    at 14%      200 Hours  per month    400 Hours   per month         500 Hours   per month
FY      (tons)       of Annial Production      i1% Peak  14% Peak       12 % Peak    14% Peak       12M% Peak    14% Peak
81        5,000          625         700            3.1         3.5
82       22,400        2,800       3,135           14.0       15.7
83       58,400        7,300       8,175           36.5       40.9         18.3          20.4
84      108,200       13,525      15,150           67.6       75.8         33.8          37.9
85      158,600       19,825      22,205                                   49.6          55.5           39.7         44.4
86      191,200       23,900      26,770                                   59.8          66.9           47.8         53.5
87      205,300       25,660      28,740                                                                51.3         57.5
88      209,800       26,225      29,370                                                                 52.5        58.7
89      209,700       26,210      29,360                                                                 52.h        58.7
N.B. CDC has proposed to erect an oil mill with a capacity of 60 tons FEB per Hour. This capacity seems to be correct.
[I



PAPUA NEWT GUINEA
POPONDETTA 3MALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.Smallholder Fertilizer Recommendations and Costs
Unit Cost      -----Year 1------           -----Year 4-10----        ---Year 11-23g-_
K/ton        kg/Ha        K/Ha           kg/Ha         K/Ha        kg/Ha         K/Ha
Industrial Sulphur                 217          12           2.60                                      -
.Sulphate of Amnmonia               93          30           2.79                                      90          8.37
Muriate of Potash                  146            -           -            180          26.28         180          26.28
Kieserite                          109            -           -            120          13.08         120         13.08
Total: K/Ha                                               5.39                       39.36                     47.73
Per 4 ha Snallholding (rounded)                             22                         157                       190
1/  Year 1 is year of planting; no fertilizer application during Years 2 and 3.
2/ Fertilizers are not being applied three  years before replanting.
Pr0



PAIUlA NLIW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDHR OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Devolopnent Casts for New and Eisting Settleneste and Village Holdings (Including L.T.C. Perticipante)
e-----------NM Settler (600)-s--              -                --------Existing Settler (200)   V-------                   -r (600)  -
12                   30         Tstal                 1             2             3           TtIte12                                            3             4           Intel
H.use                                                            700            -             _            700                 -            700            -            700                  -            700             -             -            700
On-Farc Costs
Land Preporotion_/                                           140            -             -            140                  40            -             -             40                  20            20             -             -             40
Harvest and Inspection Pathsi/                                20             -            _              20                 20            -             -             20                  10            10            _              -             20
Cover Crop  Seed_/                                            10            _             _              1D                 10            _             _             10                   5             5             -             -             10
Oil  nlm Seedlinge_/                                         576            -             -            576                 576            -             -            576                 288           288            -                           5 576
ToolFend zqoip-etk                                           110             -           13           248                  -             -            138           138                  -             -            138             -            138
Pertilizersi!                                                 22            -              -             22                 22            -             -             22                  11            11             -             -             22
Peet and Disease CestroLO/                                    20            20            20            60                  20            20            20            60                  10            20             20            10            60
Sab-total                                                    S9O            20            158        1,076                 688            20           158           866                 344           354            158            10           866
Other Casts
Renewal Epes9                                                150            -              -            150                 -             -             -              -                                 -             -             -             -
8ubsistence A1lowlsqceS                                      215            -              -            215
Living All.o- nc11                                          120            120           120           360
Lease Preparstian                                             10             -             -             10
Ld dSrvey Fee                                                 -            150             -            150                                                       -                            -                -                                  -
Loan and Leeal Fees                                           21            -              -             21                 21            -             -              21                 21             -             -             -             21
Land Death'                                                   30             30            30            90                 30            30            3D             90                                -                           -
SLb-total                                                    546           300            150           996                 51            30            30            12I                 21             -             -             -             21
Toals Incurred Costs                                          2,144            320           308         2,772                739           750            188         1,677                 365         1,054           l58             10        1,587
Farer's Labor 13/                                               389           434           434         1,257                 434           434           434         1.302                 217            434           434           217         1,302
TOTAL (Incloding Farmer's Labor)                               2,533           754           742         4,029              1,173          1,184           622         2,979                 582         1,488           592            227         2,889
1/ Villagers will develop 4 ha in 2 yenar at 2 ho per yeor.
2/  K 140 is the contract price for felling 4.5 he for new aettlers; nxisting settlra and villagers will receive K 40 an on incentive for felling their  n  plot.
3/  Chain saw hire for cutting the logs.
7X/ Seed has to be irported fr.. Malaysia.
3/  4 ho @ 120 seedlings per ho @ K 1.20 per sendling = K 576.
6/  New settler only will receive household goods (K 110) and all smallholders will get an ae, apade., harvesting chisels and a wheelbarrow.
7/  See Table 7.
8/  Provision for centrelly manBged peet and di..ose .ootrol.
9/  Average plane fare over PNG.
L0/ Boned an 5 months @ N 43 per arnth before new settlars' food gardens cone into bearing.
11/  Based on K 10 per  onth over A years before new settlers will receive as incena frao  their oil pain planiiga
12/  Only aettlera  will pay land rent.
13/ Farmer'a labor valued at K 1.62 per monday.



PAPUA NEWl GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALL100LDER OIL P41-U DEVELODPENTN PROJECT
Form Model (4ho) for Outn    eteet                 200) in K/Holding
TEAR                 1         2        3         4       5       6        2       8       9       10      11      12      153      14      15       16      17       10      19      20       21,    12        23      24      25       26
60  Poodn-tion (ton)                                                                     24      56       72      78      80       80      80      78       76      76      74       72      70      68       66      64       62      60      50       56      54       52      s0
011 PrdoIttio   (ton)                                                                     4.2   10.6    14,4    16.4    16 .8    16 .0    15 .2   14 .8    14.4   14.4    14.1   13.7    15.3    12.2    11.9    11.5    11.2    10.6    10.4    10.1             9.7     9.4     9.0
KerneI F-od-otio   (ton)                                                                  0.77    2.90    2.52    2.81   2.88   2.80   2.72   2.65   2.58    2.58    2.52   2.45   2.28    2.31   2.24    2.18    2.11   2.01,    1.97   1,901  1.84o   1.77    1.70
R.-  /                                                                          540  1.260  1,120  1,755  1,900  1,800  1,800  1,755   1,710  1,710  1,665  1.620  1.575  1,550  1,485  1,440  1,2395  1,350  1,305   1,260  1,215  1,170  1,125
Horse                                                                700
Oe-Fere Coors
Lood Peepertlon.                                         40
Harvest Peth.                                            20
Cover Crep Seed                                          10
oil Polo Seedliege                                      526
Toole ond Eqispm.nt                                      -         -       158        15      15      15       15      15      15       12      15      15       15      15      15       15      15       15      15       15      10      15       19      18       10      15
FertlleereI                                              22        -        -        157     157     157     157      127     157      157     198     190      190     190     190      190     190     190      190     190      190     190      198      -        -       -
Pest and  Oteesee Control                20      2~~_0      21       20      20       20      20       20      20      20       20      20     210       20      20      20       20      20       20      28       20      20      20       20      20       20
Gob- -eel                                               688        20      108      192      192     197     197      19)2    192      192     22  2   25      225      225     236      225     225     225      225      925     292     225      225      55       35      35
Other Ceets
Lest  end Legal Pee.                                     21
Leod Rent                                                30        30       30        30      30      38       30      30      30       30      28      30       30      30      30       30      30       30      30       30      30       30      30       L0      30       L0
Sob-total                                                55        30       21        20      20      30       30      30       30      30      50      30       52      50      30       30      30       38      30       38      503   0      30  3        5 0     30      30
Teta1 Inooreed Ceete                                        739      750       188      222     222      222     222     222      222     222     255      255     258     255      259     285      255     255      255     255      255     255      255      65      65       65
PhyoioaI Cootiogenry   22 2%                                 7        38        9        11I     11       I1      11      11       11      11       10      12       12      12      13       1       13      12       13       13      123     1        15        3       3       3
TOTAL COoTS                                                776      788       197      753     733     233    233       233    233       735     268      268     268      268     260     288      268     268      268     260      268     268      268      68       68       88
Fsr-e. Iaber3L                                              424      434       434      454      402    421      420      442     454     454      468     460    466       550     358      250     527      230     230      230     33       5 30    330    3211    .22      -124
T-Is (i-r0odiog Pe-e'o Labor)                            1,010    1,222        631      667      635     654     661      680     607      687     728     720      234     598     590      599     605      599     590      598     605      598      990    329      392      392
0O6(P)
1/At a Fate Gets P,,ts of K 22.50 pe,, too FF0: Anne  7, Table 2..                                                                                                                    Eetlodivg Leb-r         I-clodig Lber,
21Farmers labor is  -aloed at K 1.62 per nonday: A-oe  3, Teblo 2.                                                                              lOorma                                      38.3                     19.8
s)  Snie:-1051                             35,3                     17.0
b)  Costs      + 107.                      32.8                     14.4
e7 Ceeshlti.oss) .od b)                 27.6                       8.9



PAEEA HEldW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model (4 ho) for NH, Settlements (600) it K/Holding
--Nevolpoet Period-               -----------------------------------   -      -      -      -      -      -       Operational Period ---------------------------------
YEAR             1      2       3             4       5       6       7-2     8      9       10      11      12      13      14      15     16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23      24      25      26
FFB Production (too)                                                                   24     56      72      78      80     80      80      78      76      76      74      72     70      68      66      64      62      60      58      56      54      52      50
Oil Production (ton)                                                                    4.3   10.6   14.4   16.4   16.8   16.0   15.2   14.8   14.4   14.4   14.1   13.7   13.3   12.2   11.9   11.5   11.2   10.8   10.4   10.1    9.7                      9.4    9.0
Kernel Production (tan)                                                                 0.72   1.90   2.52   2.81   2.88   2.80   2.72   2.65   2.58   2.58   2.52   2.45   2.38   2.31   2.24   2.18   2.11    2.04    1.97    1.90   1.84    1.77    1.70
R-vene-/                                                                          540  1,260  1,620  1,755  1,800  1,800  1,800  1,755  1,710  1,710  1,665  1,620  1,575  1,530  1,485  1,440  1,395  1,350  1,305  1,260  1,215  1,170  1,125
House                                                   700
On-Farn Costa
Land Ereporotion                                    140
Harvest Paths                                        20
Cover Crop Seed                                      10
Oil Poln Seedliogs                                  576
Tools and Equipment                                 110      _      138            15      15      15      15      15     15      15      15      15      15     15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15
Fertiliter                                           22      -       -            157    157    157    157    157    157    157    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190    190                       -       -      -
Peat and Disease Control                             20      20      20            20      20      20      20      20     20      20      20      20      20     20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20      20
Sub-total                                           898      20    158            192    192    192    192    192    192    192    225    225    225    225    225    225    225    225                 225    225    225    225    225          35      35      35
Other Costs
Removal EnPenoca                                    150
Leass  Preparation                                   10
Land Survey Pee                                      -      150
Loan and Legal Fee,                                  21
Land Rent                                            30      30      30            30      30      30      30      30      30     30      30      30      30      30      30     30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30
Sub-total                                           211    180       30             3 0        30      30      30      3 0        _30 30  30      30      30      30             30  ,           3                       30      30      30      30      30
Totol Incurred Costs                                 1,809    200    108              222    222    222    222    222    222    222    255    255    255    255    255    255    255    255    255    255    255    255    255                      65      65      65
Physical Contiigency - 57/                               90     10       9             11     11      11      11      11      11      11      13     13      13      13      13      13      13      13      13     1        13      13     1        3        3
TOTAL COSTS                                          1,899    210    197              233    233    233    233    233    233    233    268    268    268    268    268    268    268    268    268                  268    268    268    268        68      68      68
Farner'  Lb2/                                           389    434    434             434    402    421    428    447    454    454    460    460    466    330    330    330    337    330    330    330    337    330    330    311    324    324
Total (iecludio Farner's Labor)                     2,288    644    631              667    635    654    661    680    687    687    728    728    734    598    598    598    605    598    598    598    605                    598    598    379       392    392
1/  Ar a Farm Gate Price of K 23.50/ton FFB: Anona 7, Table 2.
2/       Isroer's lobor volued at K 1.62 per nanday: Annes 3, Table 2.                                                                                                               Excludiug Labor       Including labor
Notmal                                           30.2                   17.1
a)  Be-efits-   -1lO                             27.8                   14.5
b)  Costs:       +107.                           23 5                   12.2
c)  rnmbination: a) and b)                       19.4                    7.2



,~ ~ ,w                      |t     '"1-X  .5  
I   EI ^s '                 'o9 *[^i-=:                  2
_         -           o    2o2 
|_,~~1   ,,3                       11                   nf
*                t   i  1  I    I         |                         -
-I|-                   t-l   O.-'..o o   a       }  
-0s| oIe lo  _    a     
 a       a    o      |- o I   s lov            
-~ ~ _! _                       a#   6      o-{ s 8          
e - -a                        oD}9    n_la r 
aa   a #s                      SIaa
; 222  -                                                              K    ooYAr>WY 
a         a _a   o g | 9 |        oO>X                 >v 
a          an 1               l      .           
o  1t  o  |-    9   f   -   lo  o vl   r  ~~  D
a   ao  a -9ft  oOMM~<
a   ao  a   a     a I     ooa    
o         Halk  I         oo            
a   a   c.a     >}       Wl              
g        a s    I        a   oi 0 a
aD   i   os  Wa          a :La   sou
1~~~ ~ 1a *II l



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Smallholder Oil Palm Development Costs
During 8 Year Project Development Period
Foreign
Exchange
FY77         FY78           FY79            FY80          FY81            FY82           FY83           FY84                   Total           7.
-------------------------------------------- ('000 K) ------------------------------ ----------------
Smallholder Housing                                             - -        157.5          301.0          271.6          249.9              -              -                   980.0           75
On- Farm Costs
Land Preparation                             3.0          29.0           41.7           32.5             9.8             -              -              -                    116.0          50
Harvest and Inspection Paths                   -            1.5            5.5            8.9            8.2            3.9             -              -                     28.0          50
Cover Crop Seed                               -            0.8            2.8            4.4            4.1             1.9             -              -                     14.0         100
Oil Palm Seedlings                             -          43.2          158.4          255.2          237.3          112.3              -              -                    806.4          75
Tools and Equipment                            -            -            16.5           35.6           64.8           72.3            60.3            9.7                   259.2         100
Fertilizer                                     -            1.6           6.0            9.8            9.1            4.3              -              -                     30.8         100
Pest and Disease Control                       -            1.5            7.0           15.9          27.6            21.0           12.1            3.9                    84.0         100
Sub-total                                    3.0          77.6          237.9          362.3          355.9          215.7            72.4           13.6                 1,338.4          79.6
Other Costs
Removal Expenses                               -             -           22.5           34.5           22.5            10.5             -              -                     90.0          75
Subsistence Allowance                          -             -           32.3           49.5           32.2            15.0             -              -                    129.0          40
Living Allowance                               -             -           18.0           45.6           63.6           54.0            26.4            8.4                   216.0          40
Lease Preparation                              -             -            1.5             2.3            1.5            0.7             -              -                      6.0           -
Land  Survey Fee                               -            -               -           22.5           34.5            22.5           10.5             -                     90.0          50
Loan and Legal Fees                            -            1.6           7.3             9.8            9.2            1.5             -              -                     29.4           -
Land Rent                                      -            2.2           8.3            16.3           19.7           15.7            7.7            2.1                    72.0
Sub-total                                      -            3.8          89.9           180.5          183.2          119.9           44.6           10.5                   632.4          39.6
Total Incurred Costs                             3.0         81.4          485.3          843.8          810.7           585.5          117.0           24.1                 2,950.8          69.5
Physical Contingency - 57%                       0.2          4.0           24.3           42.2           40.5            29.3            5.8             1.2                  147.5
Sub-total                                      3.2         85.4           509.6         886.0           851.2          614.8          122.8            25.3                3,098.3
Price Contingencies                              0.2          13.4          141.3          352.7         436.4           408.1           82.3            20.3                1447
TOTAL COSTS                                      3.4          98.8          650.9                       1,238.7          0229           205.1            45.6
Foreign Exchange Component                       1.7          62.7         441.9           850.2          894.5          732.2          152.1             31.2               3,166.5
Local Costs                                      1.7          36.1          209.0          388.5          393.1          290.7           53.0             14.4               1,386.5
Farmer's Labor                                    -           32.6          145.1          333.8          483.6          452.6          263.5           84.6                 1,795.8
Price Contingency                                 -            4.5           35.1          117.8          229.3          274.7          197.8            76.9                   936.1
Total Value Farmer's Labor                        -           37.1          180.2          451.6          712.9          727.3          461.3            161.5               2,731.9



1976                       1977                                 1~~~~~p99.10,019  P*978                        l979 80890M
0a9..,4.p  9..*                         J         ~       ~     ~~~ 197A1j     so N     I              1977      s    N      I                           AII   I                                A97I II                              19j  A                                     9981                I                     9gA
0498    f 98 l. 
.19,80.4.5!  U/8--0.7
ft II. .   ofld  -r.-98-r.-y- --
#111...681.89017
A.1.  .U1   *d                 f  -hi.
Ah. p81.u.of1.09
PrfSl.*.-          b0881.
1.8496.*980181089



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nucleus Estate and Processing Factory
1.         As part of its oil palm development program for the Popondetta
area, Government will conclude an agreement with the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) according to which CDC will establish and operate a nucleus
estate and a palm oil mill. To complement the smallholder project, tentative
agreement has been reached that provides for the establishment of an Estate
Company (EC) and a Factory Company (FC), to be jointly owned by Government
and CDC.
2.        The CDC participation in the proposed FC and EC joint venture was
initially appraised by a mission from London in May 1974. A subsequent up-
dating mission took place in May 1975 and a basis for agreement was finally
reached between Government and CDC at the time of the Bank appraisal of the
smallholder component in February 1976. Final documents will be signed upon
confirmation that the smallholder development will take place. At the same
time and as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank project, it
will be required that agreements between Government and CDC covering the
establishment, financing and operation of the two companies will have been
concluded and made available to the Bank.
Proposed Development
3.        It is proposed that the EC, at full development, will consist of
4,000 ha planted with oil palm. Commencing in FY78, the planting program
will extend over a 5 year period as detailed below and shown in relation to
the proposed smallholder project:
FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81   FY82   Total
Estate (ha)           400      600    1,000   1,000  1,000  4,000
Smallholder (ha)      300   1,100    1,772   1,648    780  5,600 4.
Land allocation and acquisition for the FC and EC, involving areas
to the East and West of the Amboga River (see Map), has been arranged by the
National Investment Development Authority (NIDA) in conjunction with the
Lands Department.
5.        It is proposed that the FC will ultimately provide oil palm milling
capacity for 60 tons FFB/hour, comprising two lines of 30 tons/hour each.
Proposed mill size takes account of assumed yield profiles and estimated
production figures, taking monthly peak yields as being as high as 14% of
the annual totals (Annex 3, Tables 4, 5, and 6). Associated developments



ANNEX 4
Page 2
will include the construction of central workshops, a bulk oil installation
and storage at Oro Bay.
6.        Mill design has been discussed with the Bank and influenced by ex-
perience gained from the Hoskins project. It is expected that many of the
start-up problems that occcurred there will be avoided. The proposed con-
struction schedule takes account of the expected rate of smallholder and
estate development and according to that, the mill should be operative by
mid 1980.
Estimated Costs and Financing
7.        Allowing for expected price increases and physical contingencies,
development costs are estimated to be K 13.52 M (US$17.17 M) for the FC and K
8.19 M (US$10.40 M) for the EC, making a total of K 21.71 M (US$27.57 M).
These costs are detailed in Table 1. It has been tentatively proposed that
equity funds amounting to K 7.50 M (US$9.52 M) be subscribed by Government and
CDC in equal amounts, with the balance of the development needs met by debt
financing. Table 2 shows details of proposed FC and EC financing. Subject to
their Boards confirmation it has been indicated that CDC would contribute in
total about K 8.66 M (US$11 M) towards the overall requirements for debt and
equity.
Operation and Management
8.        In the first years of development, the EC will have resposibility for
nursery operations and the supply to smallholders of all planting material.
Subsequently, the FC will be responsible for the pricing, purchasing and pro-
cessing of all smallholder (and EC) FFB and the final marketing of the palm
oil and kernel production. Although smallholder FFB collection and transporta-
tion will be the responsibility of a separate company (Annex 8), full vehicle
servicing facilities will be provided by the FC.
9.        It is proposed that the provision of a full corporate management team
will be the responsibility of CDC. Administration, agricultural and engineer-
ing personnel required for the establishment and development of FC and EC will
be provided or specifically recruited by CDC. It is intended that CDC provide
the Chief Executive and Company Secretary under agreements with EC and FC.
(Both companies would share the same officers.) Additionally the CDC manage-
ment agreements will provide for a fixed number of Visiting Agents visits per
annum for special agricultural and engineering aspects.
10.       The EC will service the sma]lholder sector by purchasing planting
material (germinated seed), growing the material in nurseries and selling the
material to smallholders for planting. The EC management would also provide
technical services in the form of agriicultural advice and arranging the
bulk purchasing of farm materials such as agro-chemicals and equipment. A
liaison officer attached to the EC would ensure coordination of harvesting and
fruit deliveries to the factory from both the EC and smallholders.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
11.       FFB production by the EC will be sold by weight to the factory,
delivered over the factory weigh bridge. On the basis of various FFB price
assumptions and updated cost estimates, CDC have determined the rate of
return on the EC investment to be satisfactory. In relation to the FC, it is
proposed that all operations would be conducted on a fully commercial basis,
rather than as a service to smallholders and the EC. It is proposed that
the factory will purchase all fruit as principal at a price that will permit
a satisfactory margin over the costs of processing and marketing.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA OIL PALM5 SMALLHOSLDER DEVELOMENT PROJECI
Pro-tS  Cos.ts for Staff .ed Factor  Sec-or
A-0--------------------------Years)                                                    ------------------------                                      Toal Lo            Es-hange                               Tot.l to          F-rign
Schedule            1             2                       4             5            6            7            _                          10           Y-a  7                 etLocal Cos-                        Ycar 18           sh0g
state  Sorte
F-ld7 de-lopoesE                                    4/1             107 6        227 9       429 6        635 9         677.6         430.8       447 0        214 0                                      2,956.4            886.9                2,069 5           3,170.4              30.0
Ofti-e  ood hors-  b-rld-gs  etc                    4/3             360 7        459.5       435 3        437 3         272.1          19.0        20.3         30.2           4.5          2.0          2.004 2           1.202 5                  NOI  7          2,040 9              60.0
V.hscles  -d Eqoipetet                              474              44.6          40.2       25.4         40.2          32.6          64.2        66.6          24.0         75 4         66 0             313.0            313.8                  -                 530.0             108.0
I -nd F5t0tc Mos-ge...or                     4/5             200 1        314 4       376.7         -            -              -           -            -            -              -              891.2            445.6                  445.6              891.2             510.0
Sob-Tot.1                                                    713 0      1,042,0    1,267 0       1,113.4        982.3          514.0       533.9        319.0          79.8         68 0          6,165.6          2,848.8                3,316.0
57. Phytli-l C-st-ng-y                                               35.7         52.1         63.4        55.7         49.1           25.7        26.7         15.9           4.0          3.4             308.4            042.4                  166.0
Est.tc Sob,-Totals                                                  740.7      1,094 1   1,3301 4       1,169 1    1,030.4            539.7       560,b        334 9          03 9         71 4           6,474 0          2,991 2                3,482.8           7,164.2
Estate Op-cti.g Losse                               4/9-                                -                 254 3         158.4          --- -                                                                412.7                                   -                 412 7
Os'ate Sotals                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~740 7    0,094.1    1.330 4  1.423,4  1.119 8      539 2       560.6        234.9         03.9          20.4          6,886.7
F,a-Oy boildtsg/plaot                               6/2             795 0      3,108(  7   1,980.0        398 0                     1,196 0       398.0          -            -            -              7,94.7 0         2,152.0                  795.0           7,947.0              90.0
R-sid-eti.l b-tld,.ga & ira-port, etc.              6/1              -             -           23.5        135 9         -             48.9       113.1           4 0        122 4         -                321 4            192.6                  128.6             447 8              60.0
Dec Day 0i0 et-t-o1                                 6/3-                         425 II      155 5         124 4        114 1         139.1        90.7          79 6         2 7 .7       -               ,048.8            692.2                  356 6           1,206.1              66 0
Workshop bo-ld-og/plaer                             6/4                           153 0       89.6          42.9         15.4          10.4        15 3          19.6          6.0          8.0             376 6            205.6                  1110               360.2             66 0
795 0     3,7580.1    2,248.0         701.2        129.5       1,394 4        617,1        103 2        206.1           8 0          9,643 8          8,232.6                1,391.2
57. Physi-l C..t-ogc-y                                               39.8        187 9       112 4         33.1           6.5          69.7        30.9           5 2         10 3          0.4             t,82 3           412 6                   69 7
F-c1sty Sob-Totals                                                  834 8      3,945 9   2,361 0           736.3        136 0       1,464.1       648.0         108.4        216 4           8.4         10,126.1          8,665 2                1,460 9          10,459.3              85.6
Wo-k-g CapaLal                                                        -            -           -           100.0        100.0         200.0       200.0        200 0         200.0        130.0             600.0            -                      -               1,200.0
F-rl-y Oper-tr-g 1oes-                              6/7              -             10.6       91 1        451 0         216.6          --                                     - -                           770.4--                                                    770.4
Factory T.t.l.                                                      034 8      3.957 5   2.452.1        1,237.4        452 6        1.664 5       848.0        408 4         416.4        1094          11,496.5
Esrare ad Pottery Tetale                                          1,583.5      5,05.        .8           .708        1624           2203,8    1,408.6          743 3        500.3        -179. 8        18 383 2
ReetedProeerCo ts s  Allo- for I.letlt-
istote Sector                                                       748.7      1,135.1    1,483 8       1,401 7    1,329.4             747.7      835.0         536 2        144 4        1130 5         7,681 4           3,533.4                4,148.0           8,492.5              46.0
op-rat-g lossc                                                       -             -           -          304 9         204.2          -            -            -            -            -                509).1           203 6                   305 5             509.4             40 0
Patoy   eco                                                         834 9      4.139 6   2,734 8           882 0        1 75 3      2,032 9       965 2         173.6        372 5          15 3         11,765 4         10,068 2                1,697 4          12,326 8              85 
Work-og Capttol                                                      -             -           -          119.9         028.9         277.1       297.9        480.4         344 5        087.8             823 0            247 1                  576.7            1,031 3             30.0
op-cor-g losse                                                       -            12 1       101.6        540.9        279 2           --                                                  -                933.8            373.5                  560.3             938.8              40 5
E~Ltot   -cd F-ct-c  S-Lo-  T.tale                                ,)_,83 5    3 286 0   4,320 2    3 250.2    2,117.0               3.057.7   2.098 1        1 190.2        861.2         3 28 6        21 .713.5        14.425 67289                              2s,O93.5                               4
OrIf-f ra--sg Oltte  Y-o  7
l/  S.tatd so 1976 coSot et.-
2/  Inflated ot 7~', -op ...d to Yea  9 (-,stpt thar eiil  -oks ar   -eflsted at 124. S  Yta  2).
Ineloted at 54. th--et-r to Y-  14



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA OIL PALM SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate and Factory Sectors.  Possible Financing
(K '000)
Project Years                          1           2           3           4           5           6            7            8           9              10
Project Costs - Constant Terms
Estate Company                          748.7     1,094.1    1,330.4    1,423.4    1,189.8          539.7        560.6        334.9        83.9            71.4
Factory Company                        834.8      3,957.5    2,452.1    1,287.4         452.6    1,664.1         848.0        408.4       416.4          108.4
Total                            1,583.5      5,051.6    3,782.5    2,710.8    1,642.4    2,203.8          1,408.6        743.3       500.3          179.8
Cumulative Total                     1,583.5      6,635.1   10,417.6   13,128.4   14,770.8   16,974.6    18,383.2               -          -               -
Project Costs (Inflated)
Estate Company                         748.7      1,135.1    1,483.8    1,706.6    1,533.6          747.7        835.0        536.2       144.4          130.5
Factory Company                        834.8      4,151.7    2,836.4    1,543.6         583.4    2,310.0       1,263.1        654.0       716.8          198.1
Total                            1,583.5      5,268.8    4,320.2    3,250.2    2,117.0    3,057.7          2,098.1      1,190.2       861.2          328.6
Cumulative Total                     1,583.5      6,870.3   11,190.5   14,440.7   16,557.7   19,615.4    21,713.5               -          -               -
Proposed Finance
(a)  Estate Equity (K3.5m)            750.0      1,150.0    1,500.0        100.0       -           -            _
Loan   (K4.Om)             -           -          -         1,600.0    1,600.0        600.0        200.0
750.0     1.150.0    1,500.0    1,700.0    1,600.0          600.0        200.0
(b)  Factory Equity (K4.0m)            850.0      3,150.0       -           -           -           -            -                        Self-financing
Loan   (K7.8m)             -        1,000.0    2,750.0    1,510.0         590.0    1,950.0         -                         After Year 7
850.0     4,150.0    2,750.0    1,510.0         590.0    1,950.0         -
(c)  Combined Estate/Factory         1,600.0      5,300.0    4,250.0    3,210.0    2,190.0    2,550.0            200.0
(i)  Add self-generated                                                                                                                                               f
Funds - Estate              -           -           -           -          -           143.3        632.1                                                   a w
Factory            -           -           -           -           -           377.5      1,353.3                                                  m X
Cumulative Total                     1,600.0      6,900.0   11,150.0   14,360.0   16,550.0   19,620.8    21,806.2



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Requirements, Infrastructure,
Staff and Transportation
General
1.        The project area is located on the coastal plain adjacent to the
town of Popondetta and about 25 km north of Mount Lamington, an active
volcano, which controls the watershed and consequently the drainage pattern
in the project area. The Kumusi River 20 km to the west of Popondetta
rises in the hinterland and drains northwards to the sea. The influence
of Mount Lamington has created a radial pattern of deeply incised drainage
channels which in the project area run generally northwards. The township
of Popondetta is approximately 30 km from the coast in the east and 20 km
in the north. The area was used as military base during World War II and
a track access across the Owen Stanley Ranges was then established between
Port Moresby and Kokoda and then Popondetta. Since that time a good two
lane gravel road from Kokoda extends 110 km through Popondetta to the coastal
port at Oro Bay. The rugged Owen Stanley Ranges have not as yet been crossed
with a road so that the only link the area now has with the rest of Papua
New Guinea is by sea or air.
Township
2.        The township of Popondetta grew up with the soldier settlements
which were developed for cocoa production. The town now has all the basic
facilities necessary for its present population of approximately 1,500.
Popondetta is the headquarters for the administration of the Northern
Province and is served by government's service departments. There is a
modern 30 bedroom hotel, two established recreational clubs, trade stores,
bank, and sub-branches of the major distributors that are located in Lae
or Port Moresby. The town is properly laid out with bitumin surfaced roads
including curb and guttering. The water supply is pumped from the river,
treated and reticulated throughout the town. The power supply is from a
diesel generator and provides 24 hour service. The educational and hospital
facilities are adequate. Popondetta is the only established township in
the area of influence and it would be the only logistic center available
to the project.
Existing Road Network
3.        The Popondetta area has been developed in isolation from the rest
of the country.  There is only one first class road which leads generally
westwards from the Port at Oro Bay 50 km to Popondetta and continues a
further 60 km to the foothills of the Owen Stanley Ranges terminating at



ANNEX .)
Page 2
the township of Kokoda. This road is 8 m formation generally paved with
a mixture of pumice and untreated river gravel. The road would have a
capacity without upgrading of about 600 vehicles per day in its present
condition. Certain sections are more heavily trafficked especially between
Popondetta and the Girua Airport and this section is currently being
upgraded with a double bituminous surface treatment.
4.        From this main road lead a large number of minor feeder roads and
access tracks. These vary from 3 m wide roads with river gravel surface to
3 m wide earth roads. The alignment of many of these roads is suitable for
project development traffic but the formation requires widening and
resurfacing.
5.        The bridging on the main road between the oil palm mill site and
the port is to HS 20 1/ highway standards. The bridges are generally steel
girder with composite concrete decks but there are two bridges of pre-stressed
concrete design. The bridge design standard is equal to the country's high-
way standard for bridges and is capable of carrying the road tankers or heavy
trucks that are likely to be used in the project.
6.        The terrain in the area of influence is flat with deep gullies
cut into the sandy loam of the volcanic deposits. River gravels are generally
abundant but these decrease with the distance from Mount Lamington. With
the drainage pattern generally north-south and the main access east-west
the existing feeder roads are all running north-south between the drainage
channels.
Airports
7.        A number of airfields were constructed in the area during World
War II and one of these has been reconstructed to form the airport at
Girua 14 km east of Popondetta. This airport is served by F27 Fokker
Friendship aircraft with a daily service to Port Moresby.
Seaports
8.        A new steel piled concrete deck wharf has been constructed at
Oro Bay. This wharf is identical in size to the wharf at Kimbe that serves
the Hoskins oil palm project. The shore installations have storage
facilities sufficient only for the present needs. Significant improvements
would be required to the layout of the shore installation to meet the
requirements of the tank farm. It is also necessary to improve the
foreshore protection works.
1/   NAASRA (National Association of Australian State Road Authorities) HS20
loading is identical to HS20-S16 used by AASHO in North America. This
allows a G.V.W. of 36 tons and maximum axle loading of 9 tons and 16 tons
respectively for single and tandem axles.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Communication
9.        Popondetta is connected to the Papua New Guinea automatic telephone
system by radio links. This provides a good service in PNG and to world
networks.
Road Requirements
General
10.       The nucleus estate is well served with existing roads and it
requires only a minimum of work to bring these roads into service. However,
the roads in the nucleus estate have not been included in the project. In
the eastern sector there is no existing access to the mill site except by
a long detour through the township of Popondetta. To avoid this, a bridge
and road have been included in the estimates to permit an access road to
lead directly to the mill site from the eastern sector. Similarly in the
western sector, allowance has been made to construct new roads and bridges
that permit direct access to the miLl site. Each of the areas are discussed
with a summary of roads required.
Existing Settlements
11.       Immediately surrounding the nucleus estate are the existing settle-
ments. The roads in these areas are sometimes overgrown and poorly drained;
all requiring upgrading with additional width necessary on access roads. Road
requirements are summarized below:
No. of   Length of   Length of        Cost of Road
Existing Settlements         Blocks     Road    Road per Block       Per Block
(km)        (m)                 (K)
West Amboga                    45        12.5          270              2,040
North Sangara                  10         4.5         450               2,700
Sangara                        35         1.5          40                 250
East Amboga                    90        14.0          150              2,150
Arehe                          20         2.0          100                600
TOTAL                   200        34.5
Compounded Mean                                  172              1,670



ANNEX 5
Page 4
12.       The costs for West Amnboga include access roads which serve
adjacent areas and are consequently high per block. North Sangara has a
long access for a small number of blocks. These could well be rearranged
in the final design as it is one of the highest unit costs in the prelimi-
nary layout. Sangara has a low unit cost per block because a large pro-
portion of the blocks are located on the existing main road.  East Amboga
costs are high because of the Gawana Bridge which is included in this
section.
New Settlements
13.       The areas for new settlers are adjacent to the existing settle-
ment areas. In the eastern sector the new settler areas do not have direct
access to the oiL palm factory as there is no crossing of the Gawana River.
Provision has been made for an access road which connects Soputa, Serovi
and the eastern portion of the nucleus estate with the main road by a bridge
of HS20 standard over the Gawana River at a point almost due east of the
oil palm mill.  These costs have been included in the road costs for exist-
ing settlers.  Egora and Isivene are connected to the existing system witl
sub-divisional roads, some of which reach access road standard.  There is
an existing road to Wijo but upgrading is required.  Road requirements are
summarized below:
No. of   Length of   Length of         Cost of Road
Blocks      Road    Road per Block       Per Block
(kin)        (m)                (K)
Serovi                    150        23          153                1,440
F/gora                    230        28          122                1,360
Isivene                   150        16          107                1,104
Wijo                       70        11.5        164                1,560
TOTAI,               600        78.5
Compounded Mean                             131                1,340
Land Tenure Conversion Participants
14.       These smaliholders are all close to an existing road that is to
be upgraded or in the case of Dobudura located aLong the main road.  Road
requirements are summarized below:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
No. of   Length of   Length of         Cost of Road
Blocks     Road    Road per Block        Per Block
(km)         (m)                (K)
Dobudura                  50         8           160               1,560
Soputa                     50         8           160              1,560
Ahora                      25         4           160              1,776
Warisota                   25         3           120              1,200
Waru                       25        4            160                912
TOTAIL              175        27
Compounded Mean                             154              1,446
15.       Vlllagers:  There are three general areas for village settlers;
east in the Eimbi Lake area, southwest in the Sasembata area and west in the
Saiho area.  Some of these areas  rivolve hauls up to 35 km to the milL site.
The Embi and the Sasembata areas are well served with existing roads but access
roads are required to connect together the villages in the Saiho area and
provide a direct west-east link to the main road near the mill site.  There
is a long access road which requires upgrading to Dobudura causing high cost
per block. Road requirements are summarized below:
No. of   Length of   Length of         Cost of Road
Settlers    Road    Road per Block        Per Block
(km)         (m)                (K)
Dobudura                  25        13          520                 2,440
Inonda                   25          2           80                   816
Sasembata                150        25          167                 1,125
Saiho Area              225         40          178                 2,283
TOTAL              425         80
Compounded Mean                            188                 1,823
A complete summary of road costs is given in Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Road Standards
16.       It is intended that smallholders' FFB be hauled to the oil palm
mill in 10 ton two axle trucks. These trucks generally carry about 6.8
tons of fruit. The road standard proposed is a 6 meter formation with
4 meters of 15 cm selected river gravel. Some of the sub-divisional roads
are reduced in width to 5 meter formation with 3 meter of 15 cm selected
river gravel. At intervals along the road platforms are intended for the
loading of fruit and here the road is widened to permit the passage of other
traffic. It is expected that each fifty blocks would generate about 8
vehicles per day so that the access roads which generally link 200 blocks
would require to provide for 50 vehicles per day at full production. The
road standards have been set with this in mind. It is possible in some cases
for traffic outside the project to use the roads. This is of particular
importance in the link Togahau - Agenahambo which if the Kumusi timber
project proceeds would be a likely route for timber extraction. If this
were the case considerable upgrading of this link would be imperative.
Road Layout
17.       The blocks are generally 6 ha in area with dimensions of approxi-
mately 200 x 300 meters. The sub-divisional roads have been estimated
based upon each block having a road frontage of approximately 200 meters.
Therefore, to provide access on the ideal layout for 1,400 blocks would be
140 km of road. The actual layout causes an increase of about 50% over
140 km or 220 km giving an overall average of 157 meters of road per block.
The average cost per block for road works is K 1,548.
Road Costs
18.       The estimates for roadworks are based on costs for similar works
in both Popondetta and Kimbe. This resulted in the following unit costs:



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Unit Cost
(K/kkm)
Roads
(a)  Up-grading                                                        4,500
(b)  Access Roads - no clearing                                        9,000
- with clearing and additional drainage            11,000
(c)  Sub-divisional Roads - no clearing                                7,800
- with clearing                             9.000
- with clearing and additional
drainage                              10,000
Bridges
(a)  Composite Steel and Concrete                                      2,000 per meter
(b)  Steel with Timber Deck                                               900 per meter
Maintenance Costs
These costs are based on annual work requirements per kilometer:
(a)  Access Roads                                                      1,350
(b)  Sub-divisional Roads                                              1,200
Road Program
19.       The roadworks have been planned to just lead the planting program.
Work is expected to be commenced in FY77 and be completed by FY80.  It is most
likely that the following program will be followed:
Roads                          FY
Existing Settlers                   77
New Settlers                        78
L.T.C. and Village                  79-80
As the palm oil mill is planned to be in production by FY81, the road maintenance
program would start at this date. However, the full maintenance program would
not be in effect until FY85 when all palms are at full production.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Maintenance Program
FY                 Km                  Cost
(K '000)
81                 35                   44
82                114                  143
83                167                  209
84                220                  275
85                220                  275
86                220                  275
kWad Construction
20.       The road construction consists of clearing a formation in sandy
loam material 8 meters wide for access roads with side drains 30 cm deep.
As the clearing is done with bulldozers leaving no grubbing to be done the
earthworks for the roads can be accomplished with graders. The sandy loam
is easily compacted resulting in a simple operation. Culverts in the area
are corrugated steel nestable flange type which are easily transported and
placed. Pavement materials are available from river gravel deposits gene-
rally on a 5 km haul. Processing is not required other than to hand pick
out the larger gravel sizes and to select those parts of the river deposits
that have a natural grading suitable for pavements.
21.       This type of construction makes it possible to undertake the work
by contract without the need for very detailed specifications. There are
two well established contractors based in Popondetta together with a number
of small trucking firms. These resources could easily be mobilized to under-
take most of the work including the bridging where upgrading is required.
22.       The variable nature of the work could make the definition of the
work difficult for contract work and may best be undertaken by the Public
Works road construction forces in Popondetta. The proportions of each type
of construction are at mid-1976 prices (including physical contingencies):
New Roads                  K 1,280,000
Upgrading                  K   647,000
Bridges                    K   240,000
Total       K 2,167,000
It is assumed that design and supervision of these works which are scheduled
over a 4 year period would be done by the Department of Public Works. Details
of road costs and construction cash flows are given in Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Infrastructure
23.       New settlers participating in the project would come from different
parts of PNG, drawn from heterogeneous backgrounds. Substantial social in-
frastructure would be necessary to make the settlement process a smooth one.
The facilities to be provided include community centers, schools, medical
aid posts, markets, trade store sites and police posts and for housing of
extension staff.
24.       Community Development Officers would actively assist in reorienting
settler attitudes from one of subsistence economy to the new cash economy.
They will also help the settlers in adjusting to the new life style. Coopera-
tive Development Officers would help in reducing cultural antagonisms between
ethnic groups. Social and extension infrastructure costs are shown in Tables
2 and 3.
Staff Transportation
25.       Government has recently established a Plant and Transport Authority
(PTA) which is responsible for purchase and maintenance of all vehicles,
machinery and equipment used by all Government Departments. The Departments
pay for the hire of these and are now not permitted to own and maintain their
own vehicles, machinery and equipment. The PTA has facilities located strate-
gically throughout the country to service the needs of the various departments.
Its hire charges, although high are nonetheless realistic since they reflect
the high maintenance costs and rapid depreciation under the rugged PNG condi-
tions. Vehicle machinery and equipment requirements and costs for the Project
are shown in Table 4.



KNEiL: 5
Table 1.
PAPUA NEi GUINEA
POPONDErTTA SMALIHOLGER OIL PAIN DE7ELQPENT PROJECT
Road Construction - Phasing and Costs
ACCESS ROAIIS          SUB-DIVISICII RAIA                       Total           Total
No. of          lew       Uograde        New        Upgrade        B&IDGER   at March F76   at June 176    --Financial Year Ending---
Blocks       Km    K        i K        Kmi    K            K      n      K     Prices            Pricee       1977   1978    1979   1980
Existing Settlers                                                                                            -                            '000)-
West Amboga                      45          1      -    3.5   16    3       24    6       27    8      8         75               77
North Sangara                    10          -      -    2       9    -       -    2.5   12    -        -         21               22
Sangara                          35          -      -     -      -    -       -    1.5    7    -        -          7                8
East Anboga                      90          6    54    4       18    -       -    4       18   30    66         156              161
Arehe                            20          -      -    -       -    -        -    2      2 -          -          9               10          _       __
200          6    5h4-   9.5   43    3       214  16      73   38    74          268              278          58      70       70      80
New Settlers
Egora                           230          7    70    -        -   21    173    -         -   10    10         253              261
Isivene                        -150          2    24    -        -   14    110    -         -    -      -        134              139
Serovi                          150          3    27    2        9   18    140    -         -    -      -        176              181
Wiho                             70                 -    3.5   16    8       72    -            _- -    -         88               91           _          _ 
600         12   121    5.5   25   61    495    -          _   10    10          651             671          141    130       200    200
Village Holdings
Saih  Area                     225          6    78   16       82   18    145    -         -   80   110         415              428
Sasembata                       150          -      -   18      81    7      55    -        -    -      -        136              140
Inonda                           25          _-                  -    2      16    -        -    -      -         16               17
Dobudura                         25                     13      59   -_    -               _    _                 59               61
425          6    78   47    222   27    216    -          -   80   110          626             646           46    100       250    250
Land Tenure Gonversion Schmes
laru                             25          -      -    -       -    -       -    4       18    -      -         18               19
Warisota                         25          -      -    -       -    3      24    -        -    -      -         24               25
Ahora                            25          1.5  12    -        -    2.5   20    -         -    4      4         36               37
Soputa                           50          -      -    -       -    -       -    8       63    -      -         63               65
Dobudurt                         50          -     -_   -_              -    _      8     63   _        -         63               65
175          1.5  12    _        -    5.5   44   20    144    4         4        204             211           11      50       75     75
TOTALS                        1,400         25.5 265   62    290   96.5  779   36    217  132   198            1,749           1,806          256    350       595    605
Physical Contingency -361                                                                                                                      51      70      119    121
Sub-Total                                                                                                                   2,167          307    420      714    726
Expected Price Increase                                                                                                          673           19      59      240    355
TOTAL COSTS                                                                                                                   2.810          326    4       -5   1.081
Foreign Exchange - 68%                                                                                                         1,931         222    326       648    735
Local dosts -        32%                                                                                                         909          104    153       306    346



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Social Serviceb 1iol.ing and Building Reoufirements and Costs ('0001)
Unit Cost         FY '77           FY '78          FY '79         FY '80          FY '81         FY '82          FY '83          FY '84
K            NC.   Amount   No. Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount   No.  Amount                      Total
Houses
Grade 1                                6,000                            4    24.0      8    48.0       6    36.0      5    30.0       2    12.0
Buildings
Community Center                      10,000                            1    10.0      1    10.0       1    10.0      1    10.0       -      -
Classroom (double) & facilities    14,500                               2    29.0      3    43.5       4    58.0      2    29.0       1    14.5
Po'ice Post                            6,5OO                            1     6.5      1      6.5      1     6.5      -       -       -      -
Power House                             2,000                           1     2.0      1      2.0      1      2.0     1      2.0      -
Aid Post                                3,200                           -     -        1      3.2      1     3.2       1     3.2      -      -
Total Capital Costs                                             _               71.5           113.2           115.7           74.2            26.5                                          401.1
Physical Contingency - 5%                                       -                3.6             5.7             5.8            3.7             1.3                                           20.1
Sub-Total                                                -                75.1          118.9           121.5            77.9           27.8                                          421.2
Price Contingencies                                             -               14.5            40.0            59.4           50.2            22.5                                          186.6
Total Costs                                              _                89.6          158.9           180.9           128.1           50.3                                           607.8
Foreign Exchange - 75%                                          _               67.2           119.2           135.7           96.1            37.7                                          455.9
Local Costs - 25%                                               _               22.4            39.7           45.2            32.0            12.6                                          151.9
Note:  For ROR calculations maintenance costs at 2.5% of the capital costs have been included.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Extension Service Housing and Building Requirements and Cost ('000 K)
Unit Cost         FY '77          FY '78          FY '79         FY '80          FY '81         FY '82          FY '83          FY '84
K            No.  Amount   No. Amount   No.  Amount   No. Amount   No   Amount   No.  Amount   No. Amount   No.  Amount                     Total
Houses
Grade 1                                6,000                         8      48.0      6    36.0       6    36.0      3    18.0
2                               12,400                         3     37.2      4    49.6       2    24.8       1    12.4
4                               23,000         1      23.0    1       23.0      -     -        -      -        -      -
Buildings
Office/Store                           2,400         -        _      1       2.4      1      2.4      1     2.4      1      2.4
Total Capital Costs                                            23.0          110.6            88.0           63.2            32.8                                                        317.6
Physical Contingency - 5%                                       1.2            5.5             4.4             3.2            1.6                                                         15.9
Sub-Total                                                24.2           116.1           92.4            66.4            34.4                                                       333.5
Price Contingencies                                             1.5           22.4            31.0           32.5            22.2                                                        109.6
Total Costs                                                 25.7          138.5          123.4            98.9            56.6                                                       443.1
Foreign Exchange - 75%                                         19.3          103.9            92.5           74.2            42.4                                                        332.3
Local Costs - 25%                                               6.4           34.6            30.9            24.7           14.2                                                        110.8
Note; For ROR calculations maintenance costs at 2.5% of the capital costs have been included.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle, Equipment and Machinery 13ire'/
( 'C0 K)
Unit              2/
Cost         FY77           FY78            FY79            FY80           FY81        __ FY82            FY83        _  FY84
K         No.  Amt.    No.  Amt.        No.  Amt.    No.   Amh.    lNo.  Amt.          No.  Amt.    No    At.               Amt.      Total
Extension Service
Utility (1600)                                  2,800       2    2.8       3    8.4       5    14.0       5    14.0      5    14.0      5    14.0       5    14.0       5    14.0
Utility (4 x 4)                                 4,500       2    4.5       2    9.0       2      9.0      2     9.0      2      9.0      2     9.0      2      9.0      2     9.0
Flat Top (long wheel base-5T)                  10,100       3   16.5       4   40.4       4    40.4      4    40.4       4    40.4      4    40.4       4    40.4      4    40.4
Tipper (5T)                                    13,800       1    6.9       1   13.8       1    13.8       1    13.8      1    13.8       1    13.8      1    13.8       1    13.8
Motor Cycle                                       750       6    2.3       8    6.0      10      7.5    10      7.5    10       7.5    10      7.5    10       7.5    10      7.5
Tracrot Trailer                                 5,800       1    2.9       2   11.6       3    17.4       3    17.4      3    17.4      3    17.4       3    17.4       3    17.4
Slasher                                           800       1    0.4       2    1.6       3      2.4      3     2.4      3      2.4     3      2.4      3      2.4      2     2.4
Power Plant  and Installation                               1   12.0       1    2.0       2      4.4      3     4.8      3      2.8     3      2.8      3      2.8      3     2.8
Radio Telephone                                   700       3    1.1       5    3.5       5      3.5      5     3.5      5      3.5      5     3.5      5      3.5      5     3.5
Sub-Total                                                     49.4           96.3            112.4          112.8          110.8           110.8          110.8           110.8        814.1
Social Services
Station Wagon (4x4)-Health & Police             5,500       2    5.5       2   11.0       4    22.0       4    22.0      4    22.0       4    22.0      4    22.0       4    22.0
Utility (1600)                                  2,800       1    1.4       1    2.8        2     5.6      2     5.6      2      5.6      2     5.6      2      5.6      2      5.6
Motor Cycle                                       750       4    1.5       5    3.8        5     3.8      5     3.8      6      4.5      6     4.5      6      4.5      6      4.5
Sub-Total                                                      8.4           17.6             31.4           31.4           32.1            32.1           32.1            32.1        217.2
Total Base Costs                                              57.8          113.9            143.8          144.2          142.9           142.9          142.9           142.9       1,031.3
Physical Contingency 5%                                          2.9             5.7             7.2            7.2             7.1            7.2             7.1             7.2         S1 fi
Sub-Total                                                     60.7          119.6            151.0          151.4          150.0           150.1           150.0          150.1      1,082.9
Price Contingencies:
= Equipment component -75%                                         2.0             11.6           24.8            35.6           46.0            57.0           69.0            81.6        327.6
= Services  component -25%                                         0.7              4.2            9.1            13.3           17.8           22.8            28.2            34.1        130.2
Total Costs                                                   63.4           135.4           184.9          200.3          213.8           229.9           247.2          265.9       1,540.7
Foreign Exchange - 75%                                            47.5            101.5          138.7           150.2          160.4           172.4          185.4           199.4      1,155.5
Local Costs - 25%                                                 15.9             33.9           46.2            50.1           53.4            57.5           61.8            66.4        381.2
1/  Tn Papua New Guinea all Vehicles, Eqaipaent and Machinery used by Government Departments are owned and maintained by the Plant and Transport
Authority, and hired to the respective Government Departments.
2/   Personnel to be in place in second haif of FY 77.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services and Staffing
Terms of Reference
I. Project Management Committee
Project Accountant
1.        The Project Accountant would be responsible to and report directly
to the Project Coordinator. He would be a qualified member of a recognized
Chartered Accountants or Certified Public Accountants Institute with a minimum
of five years experience in financial and cost accounting and auditing, gained
preferably from agro-industrial operations. His responsibilities would
include:
(a)  advising the Project Coordinator on all financial and accounting
matters connected with the project;
(b)  setting up financial, statistical and accounting procedures
and records necessary for project implementation;
(b)  devising and preparing cost accounts for all project operations;
(d)  preparation of annual PMC budgets, and budgetary control of pro-
ject costs;
(e)  project expenditure payments and bank accounts;
(f)  checking statements of accounts and bills received from, and
submitted to government departments, nucleus estate companies
and other agencies connected with the project;
(g)  preparation of reimbursement/withdrawal applications for submis-
sion to the Bank and PNGDB;
(h)  preparation of composite project costs (monthly and quarterly),
and annual accounts in a form suitable for verification and
reporting by independent auditors;
(i)  assisting the Project Manager in revising and reviewing
costs of smallholder farm models and processing and marketing
costs charged by nucleus estate companies to smallholders;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
(j) helping the Project Manager in preparing quarterly progress
reports for submission to Project Management Committee and
the Bank.
II. Transport Company (TC)
The Manager
2.        The Manager would be the chief executive of the TC.  He would be
a qualified engineer or a member of a recognized Institute of Transport and
be experienced in the management of transport fleets. His responsibilities
would include:
(a) maintaining close contact with the Project Management Committee,
Project Manager Field (PMF), Factory Company (FC) and assist in
setting up the TC;
(b) assist with the setting up of the TC office, procurement of
vehicles, and recruitment of staff for the TC;
(c) liaising with PM and FC and arrange for efficient transport
operations, and maintenance of transport fleet;
(d) reporting to TC Board on Cornpany budgets and actual results
and performance;
(e) fixing, reviewing and revising transport charges to smallholders;
and
(f) liaising with FC and PNGDB and making payment of FFB dues to
smallholders after deducting loan repayments due to PNGDB.
Accountant/Financial Controller
3.        The Accountant would be responsible to and report directly to the
TC Manager. He would be a qualified member of a recognized Chartered Account-
ants or Certified Public Accountants' Institute with minimum of five years'
experience, preferable in an industrial or commercial organization. His re-
sponsibilities would include:
(a) advising the TC Manager on all financial and accounting matters
connected with the project and assisting him with preparation
of quarterly and other reports;
(b) setting up of a proper system of accounting, costing, budgetary
control and management reporting for the company; and



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 3
(c) arranging for annual audits of the company's accounts.
Field Superintendent
4.        The Field Superintendent would assist the TC Manager in the physical
aspects of the company's operations and be experienced in smallholder agricul-
tural projects. His responsiblities would inlcude:
(a) organizing harvesting rosters;
(b) arranging FFB collection schedules;
(c) supervising the above operations and coordinating transport re-
quirements;
(d) maintaining and distributing nets to smallholders for FFB
collection.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHC LDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Social Services, Staff Requirements and Costs
( '000 i;)
Unit               1/
Cost      ---FY 77--   ---FY 78-           FY 79---  ---FY 80---  FY 81---  -FY 82---  ---FY 83---    _F  A--                          Total
K         NO.  Amt.    No.  Amnt.    No.  Amt.    No.  Amt.    No.  Amt.    No.  Amnt.    No.  Ant.    Mo.  Amt.-
Teacher                                             2,600       -    -         3   7.8      10  26.0       12  31.2       15  39.0       18  46.8       20  52.0      20  52.0
Nurse (M. & I.W.)                                   2,100       1   1.1        2   4.2        2   4.2       2   4.2        2   4.2        2   4.2        2   4.2        2   4.2
Aide Post Orderly                                   1,700       1   0.9        1   1.7        2   3.4       3   5.1        4   6.8        4   6.8        4   6.8        4   6.8
Comm. Dev. Officer - grade 1                        2,200       1   1.1        1   2.2        1   2.2       1   2.2        1   2.2        1   2.2        1   2.2        1   2.2
Comm. Dev. Assist. - grade 1                        1,600       1   0.8        1   1.6        2   3.2       3   4.8        3   4.8        3   4.8        3   4.8        3   4.8
Business Development Officer - grade 1              2,500       -    -         1   2.5        1   2.5       1   2.5        1   2.5        1   2.5        1   2.5        1   2.5
Police:  sub-inspector                              3,600       -    -         1   3.6        1   3.6       1   3.6        1   3.6        1   3.6        1   3.6        1   3.6
sergeant                                 2,900        -    -         1   2.9       2   5.8        3   8.7        3   8.7        3   8.7        3   8.7        3   8.7
constable                                 2,000       -              4   8.0        6  12.0       9  18.0        9  18.0        9  18.0        9  18.0        9  18.0
Sub-total                                                        3.9           34.5           62.9          80.3           89.8           97.6          102.8          102.8            574.6
Pension Fund, Insurance,
Super Annuation - 12.5%                                          0.5            4.3            7.9          10.0           11.2           12.2           12.9           12.9             71.9
Tbtal Base Costs                                                 4.4           38.8           70.8          90.3          101.0          109.8          115.7          115.7            646.5
Physical Contingency - 5%                                           0.2            1.9            3.5            4.5            5.1            5.5            5.8            5.8             32.3
Sub-total                                                        4.6           40.7           74.3          94.8          106.1          115.3          121.5          121.5            678.8
Price Contingencies                                                  0.2           5.7           18.0           33.5          50.3           70.0           91.2          110.4             379.3
Total Costs (No Foreign Exchange)                                4.8           46.4           92.3         128.3          156.4          185.3          212.7          231.9          1,058.1
i/ Personnel to be in place in second half of FY 77.
- a



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Service - Staff Reqiuiremients and Costs
( 000 K)
Unit
cost          FY771/       _Y78              FY79           FY80           FY81           FY82            FY83           FY84
K         No.   Amt.    No.   Amt.        No.   Amt.   No.   Amt.    No.   Amt.        No.   Amt.    No.   Amt.   No.   Amt.         Tota
Rural Development off. grade 5 (ind.)               6,000        1    3.0       1      6.0     1      6.0     1      6.0     1      6.0      1     6.0      1     6.0      1      6.0
RDO grade 3                                         4,000        2    4.0       4    16.0      4    16.0      4    16.0       4    16.0      4    16.0      4    lt.0       4    16.0
RDO grades 1 & 2                                    3,000        1    1.5       2      6.o      3     9.0     4    12.0       4    12.0      4    12.0      4    12.0       4    12.0
RDT grade 2                                         2,400        2    2.4       3      7.2     3      7.2     3      7.2      3     7.2      3     7.2      3      7.2     3      7.2
RDT grade 1                                         2,000        1    1.0       1      2.0     2      4.0     2      4.0     2      4.0      2     4.0      2     4.0      2      4.0
RDT grade 4                                         3,200        1    1.6       1      3.2     1      3.2     1      3.2      1     3.2      1     3.2      1     3.2       1     3.2
RDA grades 1 & 2                                    1,600        6    4.8      11    17.6    20    32.0    25    40.0    24    38.4    21    33.6    20    32             20    32
Clerk class 3                                       2,300        1    1.2       1      2.3      1     2.3      1     2.3      1     2.3      1      2.3     1      2.J      1     2.3
Clerical Assist. graue a                            2,000        1    1.0       1      Z.0     1      2.0      1     2.o 1          2.0      1      2.0     1      2.0      1     2.0
Keyboard Operator grade 2                           2,300        1    1.2       1      2.3      1     2.3      1     2.3      1     2.3      1      2.3     1      Z.a      1     2.s
Laborers                                               500      12    3.0      16      8.0    22    11.0    25    12.5    25    12.5    20    10.0    18    _9.0    14            7.0
Sub-Total                                                        24.7            72.6            95.0          101.5          10J.9           93.o            96.0           94.0      694.3
Fension Funu, Insurance,
Super Annuation - 12.5%                                                3.1             9.1           11.9           13.4           13.2            12.3           12.0           11.8       86.8
Total Base Costs                                                 27.8             81.7          106.9          120.9          119.1          110.9           108.0          105.8      781.1
Physical Contingency - 5%                                              1.4             4.1            5.3            6.0            6.0             5.5            5.4             5.3      39.1
Sub-Total                                                        29.2             85.8          112.2          126.9          125.1          116.4           113.4          111.1      820.2
Price Contingencies                                                    1.3            11.9           27.2           44.8           59.3            70.7           85.2           101.0     401.4
Total Costs (No Foreign Exchange)                                 30.5            97.7          139.4          171.7          184.4           187.1          198.6           212.1   1,221.6
1/ Personnel to be in place in second half of FY77.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SM IIHOLR ER OIL FAL. DEVEILOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Requirements and Costs
('000 K)
Unit
cost         FY77           FY78          FY79            FY80           FY81          FY82           FY8o FY84
K        So.  Ant.    No.   At.    No.  Amt.    No.   Amt.    No.   Amt.    No.             t.     No.  Amt.    No.   Amt.       Total
Project Mafageasent                                                                                                                                                                    180.0
Project Director                                 30,000       1    30,0      1    30.0     1    30.0      1    30.0      1    30.0      1    30.0
Financial Director                               25,000       1    15.0-    1    25.0       1    25.0      1    25.0     1    25.0      1    25.0                                    140.0
Consuitantt services
Oil Palm Agronomist
Transport Management Advisor
(2 visits per year @ 2 weeks
each + 2 weeks report writing                  6,000 per
+ loal travel and expenses)                   man
(1t5,000 F.E. + X, 1,000 Local Coats)            month                      2    12.0     3    18.0      4    24.0      4    24.0      4    24.0      4    24.0      4       0      1500
PNGDB
Training Officer Smallholder Credit              35,000                      1    35.0      1    35.0                                                                                  70.0
Overseas Traveling PNGDB Staff and
Local expenses                                                                   15.0           20.0           20.0           20.0            5.0                                     60.0
Total Base Costa                                                45.0          117.0          128.0          99AO            84.0          79.0            24.0           24.0     600.0
Physical Contingency - 57.                                          2.3            5.8            6.4            5,0            4.2           j.9             1.2            1.2       30.0
Sub-Total                                                        47.3          122.8          134.4          104.0           88.2           82.9           25.2           25.2     630.0
Price Contingencies                                                 2.1           17-1           32.5           36.7           41.8           50.3           18.9           22.9     222.3
rotal. Costs                                                     49.4          139.9          166.9          140.7          130.0          133.2           44.1           48.1     852.3
Foreign Exchange - 900/                                              44.5          125.9          150l 2         126,6          117.0          119.9           39.7           43.i      767.1
Local Expenses - 10%                                                  4.9           14.0           16.7           14.1           13.O0          lj              4.4            4.8       85.2
i  The Financial Director to be in place in the second half of FY 77.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder FFB Marketing
1.        The effective marketing of smallholder FFB, involving primarily
the transportation and pricing of fruit, is of fundamental importance to
the success of the proposed project and is of equal ranking to those aspects
associated with oil palm cultivation and FFB production. In fact, experience
from the Hoskins project has shown that problems associated with smallholder
FFB marketing are more likely to occur than are production problems, given
the fertility of the coastal areas and the competence of extension staff.
A. Transportation
2.        In the Hoskins project, all aspects of smallholder FFB transporta-
tion involving FFB collection and weighing, FFB delivery to the factory, net
distribution and net maintenance has been the responsibility of the Factory
Company (FC). These activities were initially assigned to the Mosa mill as a
temporary expedient but have remained with that company ever since for want
of the formation of a more appropriate executing agency.
3.        The point at issue on the question of smallholder FFB transporta-
tion derives from the fact that Government is ultimately responsible for
the achievement of smallholder development. In the past when problems have
arisen in connection with FFB prices and/or collection rosters, it has proven
unsatisfactory and unfortunate for the factory company to be too closely
identified with the Government role. In fact at Hoskins, good relations
between smallholders and the factory company have actually suffered as a
result of the company being seen to operate as the purchaser of the individual
smallholder's fruit, the authority for rejecting unsatisfactory fruit and
as the organization responsible for obtaining the 'best price' possible.
For the proposed development program at Popondetta, the achievement of a
highly efficient mill operation will be possible, although difficult and
the task will only be complicated if the Hoskins model is followed and the
FC made responsible for smallholder FFB transportation. Accordingly, it
is proposed to establish a separate Government owned Transport Company (TC)
under the project.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Transport Company (TC): Objectives
4.        (a)  To operate a vehicle fleet for FFB collection
and delivery to the FC;
(b) To organize harvesting rosters and accompanying
FFB collection schedules;
(c) To provide, maintain and distribute nets for FFB
collection;
(d)  To act as the authority for rejecting unsatisfactory
fruit; and
(e)  To effect FFB payments to smallholders, net of loan
repayments and transportation costs.
Ownership and Operation
5.        The company would be Government owned, either directly or through
an agency, with provision for an ultimate transfer of ownership to small-
holder interests. The company board would consist of representatives of
DPI, Ministry of Finance, PNGDB, the District Commissioner and the Factory
Company. Management of the TC would be undertaken by CDC according to a
fixed term contract.  CDC would recruit key personnel namely, the TC Manager,
Accountant and Field Superintendent. Reflecting the proposed smallholder
planting program and the period cf plant immaturity, the TC would not com-
mence operations until mid-1980. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that Government would incorporate the company, arrange manage-
ment contracts, recruit personnel in line with agreed terms of reference,
and subscribe the necessary debt and equity capital.
6.        The TC would perform as a separate operating entity from the FC
but close cooperation between the two companies would be assured with the
appointment of a Smallholder Liaison Officer within the FC and the common
involvement of CDC in the management of both companies. The TC would also
maintain close contact with the smallholder project's field management.
7.        To avoid the duplication of vehicle maintenance, equipment and
spare parts inventory, the servicing of TC vehicles would be performed on
a contract basis by the FC.
8.        Transport services would be charged to smallholders at a rate of
K 5.50 per ton FFB. This corresponds to the figure being charged in the
Hoskins project and would generate sufficient revenue to cover all costs.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Capital Requirements and Financing
9.        Fixed capital requirements of the TC, involving the construction
of an office building and staff housing, together with the purchase of trans-
port vehicles and associated equipment are estimated to be K 475,000 up
to the end of FY84 (see Tables I and 3). Allowing for expected price increases,
the figure is estimated to be K 817,000. Staff requirements and costs are
presented in Table 2. The foreign exchange component of capital requirements
over the proposed disbursement period is estimated at 75%, and this would be
eligible for the Bank financing.
B. Pricing
10.       The basis for FFB pricing for the Hoskins project is the subject
of an agreement between Government and the New Britain Palm Oil Development
Company (NBPOD). According to this agreement, each month the Government
gazettes a local FOB price equivalent to the CIF price in Europe less agreed
charges for:
(a) freight;
(b) insurance;
(c) commission;
(d) wastage;
(e) shipping losses; and
(f) overseas wharf handling.
11.       After taking into account export duty of 2-1/2% FOB 1/, an ex-mill
value of palm oil is determined by also deducting agreed charges for:
(a) local wharf handling;
(b) NBPOB oil pumping and storage facilities;
(c) cost of financing bulk storage;
(d) transportation cost of oil and kennels from
factory to wharf; and
(e) the factory profit margin (5% of CIF).
1/   Suspended since mid-1975 because of low world prices for palm oil.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
12.       By using a 13 period average mill extraction rate, the ex-mill
value per ton of FFB is determined from which a deduction for milling
charges and cartage yields the monthly FFB farm gate price for smallholders.
Table 4 sets out the detail of these calculations according to which an
FFB price of K 22.50 per ton has been derived from a CIF price of US$400
per ton of oil and $250 per ton of kernel.
13.       The Hoskins FFB price formula is based upon the underlying premise
that the mill company must, over the medium-term, cover costs and earn a
reasonable profit if the project -is to successfully foster oil palm devel-
opment. Furthermore, despite the experience of widely fluctuating palm
oil prices, it is apparent that the revenue that has been left for small-
holders has provided them with adequate incomes and sufficient incentive
for them to maintain production, subject to there being some flexibility
in PNGDB loan repayment requirements in times of very low prices (para 4.26).
14.       The Hoskins price formula has been subject to various changes since
FFB marketing first commenced and all of them have been designed to correct
the initial lack of profitability in the mill.
15.       In the proposed project at Popondetta it is intended to use the same
rationale and basic formula for FFB pricing. However, determination of the
precise cost coefficients would be deferred until FFB marketing commences
and can therefore benefit from the additional experience gained from the
Hoskins project over the next 3 years. Assurances would be obtained during
negotiations that when the time comes to formulate a precise FFB pricing
mechanism, the Bank will be consulted.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transport Company_Construction Program and Costs
Unit Cost       FY80      FY81        FY82      FY83       FY84        Total
(K)        -----------'000K --------------__________
Office Building                     15,000         15.0                                                   15.0
Security Fence                      4,500          4.5                                                     4.5
Staff Houses                                      52.0       28.0        28.0      24.0       24.0       156.0
Total Base Costs                                  71.5       28.0        28.0      24.0       24.0       175.5
Physical Contingency - 5%                           36        1.4         1.4        1.2       1.2         8.8
75.1      29.4        29.4       25.2      25.2       184.3
Price Contingencies                               36.7       19.0        23.8      24.9       30.0       134.4
Total Costs                                   111.8       48.4        53.2      50.1       55.2       318.7
Foreign Exchange - 75%                            83.8       36.3        39.9      37.6       41.4       239.0
Local Costs - 25%                                 28.0       12.1        13.3       12.5      13.8        79.7
I3M



ANNEX 7
Table 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transport Company - Staffing Requirements and Costs
Number       Unit Cost       FY80      FY81      FY82      FY83      FY84        Total       F.E.
Required         (K)    -     -      ---------------  'OOOK -----------------------           %
Manager                          1             20,000           -       20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0       80.0         100
Accountant                       1             18,000           -       18.0      18.0      18.0      18.0       72.0         100
Superintendent                   1             15,000           -       15.0      15.0      15.0      15.0       60.0         100
Clerk                            1              5,000           -       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0       20.0          -
Secretary/Typist                 1              4,000          -        4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0       16.0          -
Messenger/Office Boy             1              1,000           -        1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0        4.0          -
Watchman                         2                700           -       0.7        1.4       1.4       1.4        4.9          -
Supervisor                       2              2,300           -         -        2.3       4.6       4.6       11.5          -
Driver/Recorder                  6              2,600          -        2.6        5.2      10.4      15.6       33.8          -
Vehicle Crew (2)                 6                700          -         1.4       2.8       5.6       8.4       18.2          -
Sub-total                                                           67.7      74.7      85.0      93.0       320.4
Pension Fund, Insurance,
Super Annuation                                12.5%          -        8.5        9.3      10.6      11.6       40.0          -
Total Base Costs                                                -      76.2      84.0       95.6    104.6       360.4          59
Physical Contengency - 5%                                      -        3.8        4.2       4.8       5.2       18.0
-      80.0      88.2    100.4    109.8         378.4
Price Contingency                                              -       37.9      53.5       75.4      99.8      266.6
Total Costs                                                     -     117.9    141.7    175.8    209.6          645.0
Foreign Exchange                                59%            -       69.3      83.4    103.4    123.3         379.4
Local Costs                                     41%            -       48.6      58.3       72.4      86.3      265.6



ANNEX 7
Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Transport Company - Vehicles and Equipment Requirements and Costs
Number      Unit Cost       FY80       FY81      FY82       FY83       FY84       Total
Required        (K)          -------------------------'OOOK -------------------------
1/         1/
FFB Transport Trucks           10        20,000         20.0      20.0       40.0       60.0-/    100 0-      240.0
Harvest Nets (25/Truck)       250            40          1.0       1.0        3.02-/     3.o2/       7:0       15.0
Addressographer                10           150          0.2       0.1        0.3        0.3        0.6         1.5
Scales                         10           900          0.9       0.9        1-8        1.8        3.6         9.0
Radio Equipment                11           500          1.0       0.5        1.0        1.0        2.0         5.5
Land Rover                      1         5,800          5.8        -          -          -         5.83/      11.6
Motor Cycles                    2           700           -        0.7        0.7         -         0.74/       2.1
Sub-total                                           28.9       23.2       46.8      66.1       119.7       284.7
Office Air-conditioning                   2,000          2.0                                                    2.0
Household Furniture                                      6.0                  2.0                               8.0
Office Furniture                                         3.0                                                    3.0
Office Equipment                                         2.0                                                    2.0
Sub-total                                            13.0        -         2.0         -         -          15.0
Total Base Costs                                       41.9       23.2       48.8       66.1      119.7       299.7
Physical Contingencies - 5%                              2.1       1.2        2.4        3.3        6.0        15.0
44.0      24.4       51.2      69.4       125.7       314.7
Price Contingency                                       13.8      10.0       26.0      42.5        91.1       183.4
57.8      34.4       77.2     111.9       216.8       498.1
Foreign Exchange - 100%                                 57.8      34.4       77.2      111.9      216.8       498.1
1/  Including replacement of FFB Transport Trucks every 3 years.
2/ Including replacement of Harvest Nets every 2 years.
3/ Including replacement of Land Rover every 4 years.
4/ Including replacement of Motor Cycles every 3 years.



ANNEX 7
Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER CIIL PALM DEVSLOPMENT 1PuuOJECT
FFB Pricing Formula
Sample Calculation Using Hoskins Cost Coefficients-
1.  FOB Calculation                                   Oil        Kernel
(per ton)
CIF Value                                     b 196.74       122.96
Freight                                          30.84       37.32
Insurance (.2375% oil - .3375% kernel)            O.47        0.42
Brokerage (0.5%)                                  0.98        0.61
Selling Comrission (1.5'%)                        2.95        1.84
Shipping Losses                                   1.06         4.66
h 160.144    t 78.11
K 253.550    K 123.41
Ljess Export Duty (2%)                           6.34        3.09
FOB Price Kimbe                               K 247.16    K 120.32
2.  Ex Mill Value
FOB Less Tax                                  K 247.16    K 120.32
Cost of Stock (.>erry                             8.06        3.98
Distribution and storage                         11.30        18.00
Profit Margin                                    15.92        9.96
Value Ex Mill                                 K 211.88    K  88.38
FFB Value Ex Milld/                           K  40.26    K   3.09
3. FFB Price Calculation
Base FFB price                                K  40.26  Oil
K   3.09  Kernel
43.35
V CIF price (London) assumption:
Oil - US$400 per ton
Kernel - US$250 per ton
21 Based on 19% oil extraction rate and 3@ kernel extraction rate.



ANNEX 7
Table 4
Page 2-
Less Milling Chargess
Operating Costs       K 7.223'
Depreciation             3.34
Amortization             0.15
Interest                 4.79    15.50
Less Cartage                       5.50
22.35
Farmgate Price (say) K 22.50 per ton FTB.
3/ Operating expenses for the Popendetta oil mill are expected to be
about 90% of the Hoskins oil mill, since it is expected to operate
more efficiently.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PEVLOPMENT PROJECT
Papua New Guinea Development Bank
ProJect Cash Flow StateMent
(K'000)
FY       78       79      80       81      82      83       814     85       86      87       88      89       90       91      92       93      94
PAYMENTS:
Existing8ettlers           58       98      83       69      37        7
New Settlers                       335      564     460     281       72      23
Villagers                           57      243     3144    313       44
Admin. Expenses L/          25      40       50      50      50       50      50       50      50      140      lt0      30       20      20       20       5
Total Payments                83     530      940     923     681      173       73      50      50      I4C      40       30       20      20       20       5
RECEIPTS:
Existinig Settlers                                           47       93     131      155     101       62      28
New Settlers                                                         95      237    1413      503     531      539     537      1426     235      87       12
Villagers                                                            68      198     384      482     389      223
Total Receipts                                                 47     256      566     952    1086      982      790      537     .426     235      87       12
tttwe=:=: tSr =t  cr=   LerrSt== -.  s-s  t   >=ts  t*.    t;snS;e  tz_  l   -..  5-   5-a -           s* t    =,CI. =I.c 
Surplus/(Deficit)           (83)   (530)   (940)   (923)   (634)    83         1493    Ul2    1048      988      806     571      503      375     179        53      1
Interest Paid/(Capitalised)   7       54     140     233      308     335      357     345      296      230     164      109      68       31       1        --
Principal Repaid  2/                                                           136     567      752     758      642     462      435      344        8
Cumulative Surplus/
(Deficit) k/              (90)   (674)  (1754)  (2910)  (3852)  (4104)  (3968)  (3401)  (2649)  (1891)  (1249)   (:'b7)   (352)           (8)    170       223    224
1/  lncremental admin expenses on Popondetta project.
2/  interest @ 8.7% on cumulative balances including interest capitalised.  Bank funds (70%) will be lent to PNGDB at 9%,
and the balance 307. will consist of PNGDB's own funds which are costed at 8%, thus giving a blend cost to PNGDB 8.7%
3/  Balance available after payment of interest treated as repayment of capital.                                                                                 1
4/ Loan repayable in 16 years with a grace period of 7 years.                                                                                                      CD



ANIE 8
PAPUA NEW GU1                                                                   Table 2
POPONDTIA 8hLIR  OIL PAIM DV1FLDPKWT PROJECT
Pana Now Guinea Develornent Bank
YUAR:     1         2        3        4       5        6        7       B        9      10       11       12       13
I. NWS SlIMfS j  - Anex 3  Table 1 0
Reverse:                                                             540    1260    1755    1800    1800    1800    1755    1710    1710    1710
Incurred Cost.                          1809       200      188      222      222     222      222     222      222      222     255      255      255
Physical Contingency (5%)                 91        10       19       11       11      11       11      11       11       11      12       12       12
1900      21Q       207     233      233      233     233      233     233      233      267      267     267
Net Incremental Revenue                (19W)    (210)    (207)    307    1027    1387    1522    1567    1567    1567    1486    1443    1443
Cesh Receipts:  PNGDB Loan                1900       210       207
Subsistence Alowance    215
Living Allowance          120       120       120
Cash Flow before Debt ServiCe              335       120      120      307    1027    1387    1522    1567    1567    1567    1488    1443    1443
Lese Debt Srvice8/                         --        --        --      --       630     810      878      900     900      900      878     855       23
Caah Floy after Debt Service               335       120      120      307      397     577      644      667     667      667     610      588    1420
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                , .. ........  ..,,, . h._,,,,_, ...,,_, -__,.-_.,,,.......,,,,
11. EXSTING STTLERS  / -   nex3, Table 9
NevenuemI                                --        --       --       540    1260    1620    1755    1800    1800    1800    1755    1710    1710
Incurred Costs                           739       750      188      222      222     222      222     222      222      222     255      255      255
Physical Contingency (5%)                 37        38        9       11       11      11       11      11       11       11      12       12       12
776      788       197     233      233     233      233      233     233      233      267     267      267
Net Incr_ental Revenue                  (776)    (788)    (197)    307    1027    1387    1522    1567    1567    1567    1488    1443    1443
Cash Receipts:  PNGDB Loan                 776       788      197
Cash Flow before rebt Service              --         -        --      307    1027    1387    1522    1567    1567    1567    1488    1443    1443
Less Debt Service Z/                       --        --        -       --       630     810      878      900      70
Cash Flay after Debt Service 3/                                        1 307    397     577      644      667    1497    1567    1488    1443    1413
III. VILLAGER 11 - Annex 3, Table ll
Revenue:                                 --                          270      920    12440    1688    1777    1800    1B00    1776    1732
Incurred CostS                           365      1054       168     114      192     192      192      192     192      192      208     225
Physical Contingency (5%)                 18        53         9       6        9       9        9        9       9        9      10       11
383     1107       177     120      201     201      201      201     201      201      218     236
Net Incremental Revenue                 (383)   (1107)    (177)    150        719    1239    1487    1576    1599    1599    1558    1496
Cash Receipts:  PNGDB Loan                 383      1107       177
Cash Flay before Debt Service              --        --        --      150      719    1239    1487    1576    1599    1599    1558    1496
Les Debt ServiCe ?/                        --        --        --      -        450     720      aW        n 88S  246      --       --      --
Cash FloW after Debt Service 3/            --        --        --      150      269     519      643      688   -1353    1599    1558    1496
An-altRate
Loan Period        Grace Period        of Inteset
/  Loa  RePaymnt ScehdUle:
Nor Settler                       13 yrg               4 yr                 1170
Exsiting Settlers                  9 yva               4 ye11
Villagers                          9 yre               4 yre               I1L
All loans are on a reducing instalment bauil interet du for first four year in capitalised.
j/  Debt service represents 50% of revenue frm  year 5 until repaymnt of loan.
3/ Settlers are liable to pay income tax, but this has been ignored in the cash flow statement.
The maximum liability at full development is estimated to be I 60 per family.



.4.i=E 9
PAPUA NEW WINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOIDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quart,rly Disbursement Estimates
IBRD                               US$ '000
Fiscal Year                  For QmaxteFi-Mmlative
FY 77
1                             _                _
2                             25               25
3                            250              275
4                            265              540
1                            250              790
2                            300             1090
3                            330             1420
4                            400             1820
1                             1400           2200
2                            500             2720
3                            600             3320
4                            680             4000
FY 80
1                            700             4700
2                            700             5400
3                            700             6100
4                            700             6800
FY 81
1                            500             7300
2                            550             7850
3                             550            8400
4                             530             8930
FY 82
1                            400             9330
2                            425             9755
3                            425            10180
4                             430           10610
1                             200           10810
2                             230           11040
3                             230           11270
4                             110            11380
FY 84
1                             250            11630
2                             200           11830
3                             170           12000
4



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management
National Projects
1.         The National Executive Council (NEC) has been delegated the author-
ity to declare particular development projects which are of national signifi-
cance and have high government priority to be National Projects. In general,
National Projects will have the following characteristics:
(a)   substantial central government input; (b)
involvement and coordination of different Government
Departments and Agencies;
(c)   development directed in more than one Province or alternatively
a major development in one Province significantly affecting
existing development; and
(d)   Government commitment with either International Credit and/or
Aid Agencies or Foreign Investors or both.
NEC has declared the Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project a
National Project. Based on the experience in the Hoskins project Government
proposes to set up a management organization as described below and as
presented in Chart 3.
Project Management Committee (PMC)
2.         For National Projects certain procedures concerning planning,
coordination, organization and management have been created. For each
National Project a Project Management Committee would be established to co-
ordinate the planning, management and implementation of the project. The PMC
for the Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project has been recently
constituted as follows:
(a)   The Chairman, being the Secretary of DPI or his nominee,
reporting to the Minister of Primary Industry;
(b)   The Secretary of the Department of Finance or his nominee;
(c)   The Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources or
his nominee;
(d)   The Director of the Department of The National Works Authority
or his nominee;



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(e)   The Technical Director for the project being a senior specialist
officer of the functional department (DPI);
(f)   The Managing Director of PNGDB or his nominee; and
(g)   The Provincial Commissioner of Northern Province.
3.         PMC should be a small working committee, but it is envisaged that
for some National Projects such as for the Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm
Development Project the following Departments could be represented - if so
needed - in PMC.
(a)   Department of Health;
(b)   Department of Education;
(c)   Department of Police; and
(d)   Department of Labor, Industry and Commerce.
4.         The PMC would have the following responsibilities and authorities:
(a)   PMC would be responsible for the overall iplementation and manage-
ment of the National Project based on NEC approval and Government
agreement with International Agencies and external investors. PMC
through its Chairman will report on all matters pertaining to the
project to the Minister of the Functional Department who in turn
will report to NEC;
(b)   PMC would be responsible for all project expenditures, although
it may delegate this responsibility to the Project Coordinator;
(c)   PMC would be responsible for periodic reports on physical implemen-
tation and financial expenditures of the project; such reports to
be prepared at least every three months; and
(d)   PMC would be responsible that Government obligations with regard
to International Agencies and external investors are fully complied
with and that problems would be immediately referred through the
appropriate channels to the International Agencies and/or external
investors concerned.
Technical Director
5.        The Technical Director (TD) located in DPI would be responsible to
the Secretary DPI for the physical implementation of the oil palm project. He
would exercise direct authority over the Project Manager Field (PM) and he
would liaise between and work closely with specialists and consultants in such
fields as extension, training, plantation management, oil mill technology,
market and transport management.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
6.         The TD would be a Government appointed Director (or Alternate
Director to the Secretary of DPI) on the boards of the nucleus estate, the
factory and the transport companies during the period of project implemen-
tation. He would be responsible for monitoring the performance of those
companies and would report to the Secretary of DPI and the PMC as required.
Project Coordinator
7.         The Project Coordinator (PC) would be the Assistant Secretary
for the recently created Office of Project Coordination (OPC) in the
Department of Finance. He would be the executive officer of the PMC and
assisted by a project accountant he would be responsible for preparing and
monitoring the budgets, the accounting and management reports, and the
reimbursement claims for the project. Apart from administering he would also
exercise financial control over the project funds.
8.         The PC would liaise between and work closely with the line depart-
ments and agencies involved in project implementation and would ensure that
sufficient and adequate staff, services and supplies would be available to
carry out the approved work programs. He would cooperate closely with the
PM on the financial and non-agricultural aspects of the programs and based
on the PM's and other line department's financial reporting would provide
the PM financial statements, budgets and other information on project imple-
mentation progress.
9.         The PC would be a Government appointed Director (or Alternate
Director to the Secretary of Finance) on the boards of the nucleus estate,
the factory and the transport companies during the period of project imple-
mentation.
Project Manager Field
10.       The Project Manager (PM) would be responsible for project implemen-
tation at field level. He would be an officer of the functional line depart-
ment (DPI) or a specially appointed officer. He would be directly responsible
to the TD for all matters concerning project implementation and on all matters
concerning extension staff and technical issues of oil palm development.
11.        The PM would be qualified and experienced in managing agricultural
projects in a senior technical, financial or administrative capacity. His
responsibilities would include:
(a)   implementing the smallholder oil palm development utilizing the
project extension staff;
(b)   preparing and carrying out training programs for field extension
staff and smallholder farmers;



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(c)   ascertaining results from research stations and the r.ucleus estate
company for application in smallholders' plantings;
(d)   arranging for inspection of oil palm nurseries and planting materials
supplied to the smallholders by the nucleus estate company;
(e)   channelling agricultural technical advisory services offered by the
nucleus estate company and implementation of the recommendations
made by visiting inspection service teams;
(f)   reviewing and revising costs of smallholder farm models;
(g)   administering project expenditures within the budgets as
approved by PMC;
(h)   liaising with the nucleus estate and the factory companies, the
smallholder FFB transport company, PNGDB, Government line depart-
ments and other agencies, involved in project operations; and
(i)   submitting periodical and annual accounts, quarterly progress
reports and other information to the PC and through him to the
PMC and the Bank.
Funds
12.        Government funds for a National Project would be appropriated
annually in the National Development Plrojects Division of the Appropriation
Act. This appropriation would provide funding for all Government expendi-
tures in the project except for field staff salaries which would be provided
out of the respective line departments' budgets. The PMC would be responsible
for expenditure of the appropriate funds, however, it could delegate this
responsibility to t -e PC.
13.        The PMC would also be responsible for expenditure of funds pro-
vided by external money lenders (International Agencies such as the Bank
Group, ADB etc.). Thie PC would be responsible for the preparation of dis-
bursement claims.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Organigram
NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
Minister of                  Minister of              Relevant
Political Level                                       Primary                        Finance                Ministers
PltclLvl                                          Indusitry_
_~~I   _                                            ____
PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (PMC)
Secretary of               Secret r. of   - Secretary of
Primary Industry            Finance            Natural Resources
Chairman, PMC                                - Director of National
Works Authority
- Managing Director
Headquarters Level                                                                                      of PNGDB
Tech ical   Director                         - Provincial Com-
missioner, Northern
|~ t  \Province
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rl a     I
C ~~~~I I--
_~~~~~~~o dr                                                                  t 
Proiect                                       Nucleus                                              n
Manager               Transport                Estate                 Factory              elevant
Field                  Co mpany                Company                Company             line depts.
Field Level
DPI~~~~~~~
Ex  ns ion
Saff>
____\_______                 Line of Authority
Participating Smallholders.                                                                                             Liaison, Information and Reporting
Existing Settlers, New Settlers and Villagers                                                                                BLaio    Informatioa
_ _ __ _ __ , _      Board Representatioa






ANNEX 11
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market Prospects for Palm Oil
1.        After a period of slow growth (1950-65), world production of palm
oil expanded rapidly in recent years (Graph 1). Since only a small portion
of it was consumed in producing countries, increasing quantities began to
flow into the international markets. World exports, which stagnated through-
out the 1950s and early 1960s, increased at a rate of 15% a year after 1967.
In 1975 the share of palm oil in exports of all fats and oils had reached 13%
-- the second largest share after soybean oil.
2.        The Bank's staff projects world production of fats and oils to in-
crease by 88% between 1976 and 1985. During this period, palm oil will ex-
pand its share from 6.8 to 10.1%. Most of this expansion will come from oil-
palms planted during the late sixties which will reach their peak yields
during this period. (New plantings between now and 1980 will not affect palm
oil output significantly before 1985). Oilpalm projects financed by the Bank
Group will contribute about 10.1% to the world production of palm oil by
1985.
3.        Internal consumption of palm oil in developing countries is expected
to grow rapidly during the next decade (1976-85), while palm oil exports
(mainly to developed countries) are projected to grow even faster. Thus the
share of palm oil in the world trade of fats and oils will rise from 11.8%
in 1976 to 22.9% in 1985. Malaysia will continue to dominate exports fol-
lowed by Indonesia: the Ivory Coast and Zaire will be the main exporters
in West Africa (Graph 2).
4.        Developed countries import about 90 percent of palm oil traded in
international markets. Germany, Netherlands and the United Kingdom account
for almost 60% of world palm oil imports (Graph 3). While the shares of
the three European countries declined slightly during the past two decades
(1955-75), the share of US palm oil imports increased by 300% during the
last decade (1965-75). The growing demand for palm oil in the United
States reflects the trends towards greater use of vegetable oils in con-
sumer products and the decline in the price of palm oil relative to that
of other vegetable oils.
5.        Technically, most fats and oils are interchangeable.  The market
outlook for each oil must therefore be viewed within the context of the
overall market situation for fats and oils. In assessing the market pros-
pects for palm oil, some of its physical characteristics have to be taken
into account. Palm oil is a hard oil'; it contains a larger portion of



ANNEX 11
Page 2
saturated fatty acids than most of its major competitors (soybean oil, sun-
flower oil, cottonseed oil, etc.), and unlike the lauric oils (coconut oil
and palm kernel oil), palm oil does not contain any components which would
guarantee it a market in which it is preferred over other fats and oils.
The supply of palm oil is highly inelastic, because harvesting will continue
even if palm oil prices should fall below variable costs. There are two
main reasons: (a) producers have few alternative production possibilities,
short of up-rooting the palms; and (b) they would have to collect the ripe
fresh fruit bunches anyway, to prevent plant diseases caused by rotting
palm fruit. The decision as to whether to extract the oil will depend
largely on the direct operating costs of the mill and the marketing costs
for the end products (palm oil, palm kernnel oil, and palm kernel cake).
6.        The past decade saw a significant shift in the consumption of fats
and oils away from animal fats and oils to vegetable oils. Among the vege-
table oils, the demand for soft oils (soybean oil, cottonseed oil, sunflower
oil, etc.) has expanded more rapidly than the demand for hard oils (palm
oil, coconut oil, palm kernel oil). This trend is expected to continue. By
1985 the share of vegetable oils in total fats and oils consumption will
reach more than 70%. Continued strong demand for soft oils combined with
growing supplies of hard oils will exert increasing pressure on prices for
palm oil and other hard oils. According to Bank projections, world demand
for all fats and oils (based on 1974 constant prices) will rise to 51.7 mil-
lion tons in 1980 and 57.4 million in 1985. Demand for vegetable oils which
has grown at an average rate of 4.2 percent between 1960 and 1975 is ex-
pected to reached about 37 million tons in 1980 and 41 million tons in 1985.
In spite of the advantage of the soft oils, palm oil enjoys a competitive
edge over them because of its low production costs. This is a strong eco-
nomic force which will continue to attract investments in this crop.
7.        During the past decade world production of animal fats and marine
oils has expanded more slowly than the production of vegetable oils. Within
the group of vegetable oils, soybean oil and palm oil showed steepest in-
crease. On the basis of past production trends, world supply of all fats
and oils in 1985 is expected to reaclh 58.3 million tons. Almost one-fourth
of the total supply will come from soybean oil, about 10% from palm oil. The
total share of vegetable oils (hard oils and soft oils combined) will be 70%,
that of animal fats and marine oils, 30%.
8.        Table 7 contains prices for palm oil and other fats and oils for
the period 1960-75; two price indices--one using world exports, the other
using world production as weights--provide an indication of the general price
level of fats and oils. These indices illustrate the dramatic increase in
fats and oils prices which began in 1973 and reached its peak in 1974. In
September 1974 palm oil was traded fcir over US$700 per ton. Then, a 20%



ANNEX 11
Page 3
increase in world soybean production in 1975, combined with good harvests
for most other oilseed crops, led to a sharp decline (25%) of fats and oils
prices. The price for palm oil dropped to US$349 per ton in April 1976.
Because world supply of all fats and oils in 1980 is expected to exceed
world demand by a margin of 1.5 million tons, prices for fats and oils (in
real terms) are expected to be around current low levels. Between 1980 and
1985 demand for fats and oils is projected to grow faster than during 1975-
80, reducing the gap between demand and supplies of fats and oils to 800
thousand tons. Thus prices are projected to recover from their low in 1980
and to approach again their level during the late 1960s.
9.        In Tables 1 to 7 a review is given of world palm oil production,
the main producing, exporting and importing countries, and world production
and exports of selected oil seeds, fats and oils.
10.       Palm oil development in PNG started in 1967.  By 1985 about 23,300 ha
of oil palm (smallholder and nucleus estates) is expected to be in production
(9,000 ha in Hoskins, 9,600 ha in Popondetta, and 4,700 ha in Bialla). Production
of palm oil would amount to 51,000 tons in 1980 and then increase to 103,000
tons in 1985. This would amount to about 1% of total estimated world market
exports of palm oil in 1980 and 2.4% in 1985. Considering these small per-
centages and the overall favorable world market prospects for palm oil pro-
ducts in the eighties, the marketing of PNG's palm oil should not encounter
any difficulties.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                Table 1
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Palm Oil Production in Major Producing Countries, Five-Year Avcraeca
and Percentagc Shares 1955-714 
Couktr-y                   1955-59            1904ls,i5-_                       _   19ifO-71
o100  -rTr 1l'rcent  1.000 !r Percent  100oo Irr Percent  1000 . 'r Pt rceri
We.-tern Africa           536.oG    46.69  763.6',    59.93   750.98      53.98   9,95.23    h i.0?
Nigeria                173M.2u    37.71   497.9U    39.09   1j53-_     3-0.    555.40     S37.G
Ghana                      -              32.20   . 2.53   I:9.20       3.53    6i.oo      2.64
Liberia                 39.94     3.48   40.4B       3.18    41.20      2.96     7.00      0.30
Sierra Leone               -      1       36.20      2.84   41.40       2.g97    58.00     2.51
Dabhomey                13.80     1.20   38.80       3.05    32.92      2.36    42.60      1.84
Ivory Coast              7.06     0.61    22.66      1.79   30.50       2.19    91.48      3.99
Togo                     1.38     0.12    O.66       0.05     2.80      0.20     4.70      0.20
Cameroon                18.50     1.61   38.614      3.05    48.36      3.47    57.60      2.49
Cert.Afric&n Rep.        0.14     0.01     0.88      0.07     o.64      0.05     0.50      0.02
Congo, PR                2.90     0.25    6.62!      0.52    6.18       o.44    6.14   . 0.27
Eq. Guinca               2.28     0.20    3.12       0.24     3.96      0.28     4.16      0.18
Gabon                      -                 -                1.56      0.11     2.148     0.11
Gambia                   0.42     0.04    1.42       0.11     2.08      0.15     2.02      0.09
Cuinea                     -               8.80      o.69  *13.80       o.99   40.56       1. 75
Guinca-Bissau              -               6.40      0.50    8.00       0.57     8.00      0.35
SLo Tome/Prr.cipa        2.26     0.20    1.78       0.14     1.18      0.08     0.99     o0.0
Angola                  14.10     1.23   26.80       2.10    35.60      2.55    74.6o      3.22
Eas'ern AfrieA            ?25.80    19.67  225.04      17.67  172.58      12.50   1022.82    7.90
TIrrzania                0.10     0.01     0.32      0.053    0.8       0.06     1.64      0.0,'
Burundi                  1.42     0.12     1.00      0.08     1.00      0.07     1.00     0.01.
Zaire                  224.28    19.54  223.72      17.56   170.80     12.25   180.18      7.79
Latin America - Caribbean   17.56    1.53        67     2.18    53.48    . 3.84    92.16
hrazil                     -               1.2d      0.10   10.22       0. 73    6.76      0.29
Colorbia                                   0.01      0.00     9.72      0.710   38.62      1.67.
Costa Rica               3.-      0.29    6.oo       0.47   10.00       0.72    14. 44     0.62
Ecuador                    -               o.46      0.04    2.52       0.18     6.oo      0.26
Honduras                                   1.12      0.09     1. 40     0.10     7.28      0.3c
V,Zxico                 11.92     1.04   13.36       1.05   13.00       0.93    11.32     0.49
Paraguay                 0.78     0.07    3.94       0.31     5.12      0.37     7.72     0.33
Vencauela                1.50     0.13     1.50      0.12     1.50      0.11
Eart Ashi - PRcific       228.64    19.05   256.00     20.10  h1i6.86    2.   31;30.5 31     45.10
Vnina Hep.                 -                 -                                    0.       1.'Y7
Indonesia              155.22    13.52   147.52    11.58   176.42      12.65   273.72    11.84
M%'laysla               63.42     5.53  108.118      8.52   240. 44    17.25   728.1o    311.17
PhA lippines               -                 -                  -                1.49     0.06
Other s                   1130                1.47      0.12
World Tytnl                        1  0 1,27'.82   1          100                  3.       100.00 l



PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                       A
Table 2
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL, PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
W.HI 031. 1.01i'I. EllO:r,^S In VAJOji NVI('tII'OTVI COTInm'11i, hV1x-1YI'AU
A'PA(a.1 AND i;Hkr;!.trrAfr;  3I 99; 44 15;';_74
_   -   9f;;ul{- -  1J9, ]i-_v          1971l
Ce"tl-ry-                  I fnr fTX  Ilret.-It  Irm  11^  l'.lvorjit  10(X{ Kfr Pl"rmulEt  IA-x trr  t.^-.
srEf,nl!l1l A>41Oh   217.Lb   3fi)76    191.67   33 .30    305.145   1 It. 96      A6.02    6.3q
rtJ; . ri:  ~~~~~28AnO.    31.?1    lh7.64i  AM.              65.23    9.2r;        5.96      Itit
.06     .00         .30     .ol,        -
141w,rtn                        .07                                                         .23      .01
S1er/a leone                    .62      .11
DrMaigrey                    12.61.    2.19      11.61    1 A9       10.R6   'I.51i      11 .65      .A6
lrory Coast                   I.11,      .20        .88      .11       .92      .13     fin-9o    3 t0
Tog.o                           .66      .11       .-13      .07       0.09      .01       1.09      .08
Carinrcoli                      .45      O^1      8.26    21h3         8.t:?    1.19       7-35      *';4
Cent. Afr. knn.                 .01                .01       .00      0.n       .00         .00      .00
Conigo, Poo. RPp.             2.98      .r2       3.31       .5!      0.66       .09        -
Eq. Gui noa                   2.81      .149      2.91      .107      5-03       .4?       3.00      .22
G*b-n                                              .09      .01       1.07      .15         .22     .01
Gambia
Gui n is
GU1r,ren-1 n5SsaU              .60      .10         .07     .01       0.08      .01         .08      .00
Sno To.e./Fr4noire            1.33       .23       .95       .15      0.54       .07        .19      .01
A11OIna                       8.79    1.52      15.45    2.52       13.44    1.0         7.35      .511
msm.'I AFRICA               160.53   27.78    11z,.87   24.31    111.24   16.21          89.98    6.67
.08     .01       0.05       .00        .01      .00
BIuruntil
Zaj i,.                     160.5.3   27.78    11.8.79   24.30    111.19   16.20         89.97    6.67
IJ.TJt  AYFRICA-CIP.THFM.N      .16     .03       2.28       .37      3.67       .52      5.22       .38
Col onbi a
Costa  ic3                      .01               0.39      .06         .17      .02        .19      .01
Ik,ndur ..          s           .15     .03        .14 ,    .02       0.83      .11         .L9      .03
~ievS c o
Vara u4y                                          1.75       .28      2.67      .37       h.54       .33
Vene7upra
7.1ST IITA-P:h-    FTC      1S8.33   32.59    222.31   36.31    385.111.   5;.69    903.67   67.05
1n~Icn sa                   121.17   20.96    113.89   18.60    153.56   21.78    2?9.70   17.01
bl.Olys3a                    67.16   11.62    108.43   17.71    231.88   32.90    673.97   50.CO
E}5I.YNr                                          9 0.09    .01       -                     .67      .04
haHrain                                                                                     .67      .o0
7,-baron                                                                                    .00      .00
rortural                                           *.*                                     .67      .O1J
S.a3n                                             0.09      .01
Syri3an Arab Rep.
OTIH'9S                      16.1,7    2.85      47.01    7.67       95.93   13.61    262.15   19 4C
Aurtrin
p0 iun -1 u- enbcurg          6.81    1.I8        7.73    1.26        4.96       .70      2.72       .20
C7.ech<S  r'vkiR .a47                   .08
1)om'rk                         .04.    .01         .07     .01       1.59       .22       .10       .00
France                          .72     .12       1.65       .26       .65       .09      1.1:7      .30
wrmrnlny, fln                 2.84      Aq        3.12       .50      3.51,      .50      7.24       .53
Hcrn,- Kcns                     .01.    .01
Intl                            .02                                                         .00      .00
AItalY                                            0.10       .01       ,14       .01        .61       C4t
Ja.pa.n                                            .1^       .02        .11     .01         .43      .03
ITal i
heto;t-X3alsw s               4.38      .76       5.45      .B9      10.00    1.41       47.40    3.51
IficRragu1a                                        .24      .03
11iF.01                        .04      .01                                                _
Fainga-rew .an.na                                                                         L.33    .3?
27.02    I..!       74.15   10.52    196.43   11. 57
Swede.. n.67                            .11         .28     .o0        .16       .02        .54      .0!,
.37     .06         .33     .01         .05      . CO
Unitrc. Ni 1ddor .m44,    .08                       .80     .13         .30     C41        .83      .06
V       wc.c_,   577.9.: liOO   M1.c   7  .71  mc0 .o I 10.  7 oo.ro
SMIl't'. 2FAO



AUNEI 11
PAPUA NEW  GUINEA                                        Table 3
Page 1
POPONDETTA SMALUIOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAJI' OTL 2Imavurs nr PYAJ0T  IN'F1tTl01 (1311':r2TrO,
Y7WV:-YVAR Avi:rRAG,133 Ah11 PYl'y'PA1;' SF.IfRES
319;5-.59         1960-61h           196!,-69           2970-71h
Country                  l000 )IT P}ercent 2000 FT  Percent 1000 .T  Percent  lo00  Brr Prcent
FAST A FRTrA               3.56    0.60       i.10    0.72       8.76    1.38     l8.86    1.51
Kellnya-   -1.52    0.25                      1.76    0.30       5.91L    0.93     33.36    2.07
Yotambique                 0.00      .00      0.00      .00      0.50    0.07       0.8n    0.07
1Jij'er                    0.00      .00      0.00      .00      0.05    0.00       0.30    0.0)
Rhodesain                  0.57    0.09       0.36    o.o6       0.30    o.oL       0.50    0.0o,
Suidani                    1.15    0.19       o.26    0.0?       0.07    0.0]       0.o5    o.no
Tawan7 a                   0.0h.   0.00       o.06    0.03       0.1A1    0.0i      2.56    0.32
Uf,.ajndai                 0.28    0.04       1.76    0.30       1.A3    0.22       ?.?29    O.]2
zambia                     0.00      .00      0.00      .00      0.06    0.00       0. oh    0. 0o
WI'iST AFRICA              2.86    0.A8       3.62    o.63       6.61    1.04       8.6L    o.69
rn:go1n                    0.00      .00      o.o6    0.02       0.31t   0.05       o.05    0.00
Camoroon                   0.57    0.09       0.15    0.02       0.78    0.12       0.o0    0.00
Car                        0.00      .00      0.19    0.03       0.93    0.11l     1.56    0.32
c,ng!o PR                  0.00      .00      0.30    0.0       0.03    0.03       0.1,9    0.0 
Dahbcney         ..        0.00      .00      0.00     .00       0.00    0.00       0.00     .Cc
Eq. 0tinea                 0.59    0.09       0.00      .00      0.co      .00      0.00     .(0
Gabon                      0.00      .00      O. 00     .00      0.00     .00       0.00     .00
Gar.bla                    0.0O      .00     'D.00      .00      0.00      .00      0.00     .00
Ghana                      0.0      .       0.21    0.03       1.1,    0.22       3.7-3    0.3
Gidnea                     0.02    0. 00      0.00      .00      0 00     .00       0.00     .00
Ivory coast                0.90    0.15       2.55    o.l.I,     3 .91I,   0.30     0.00     .00
Liberra                    0.00      .00      0.00      .00      0.',I   0.00       0.00     .00
1.i35                      0.100     .00      0.17    0.02       0.12    0.03       0.75    0.(."
Senegal                    0.20    0.03       0.01    0.00       0.73    0.12       I.-Fj   O.]!
Sierra Leone               0.00      .00      0.02    0.00       0.12    0.01       0.11    0.C:
Togo                       0.58    0.09       0.15    0.02       0.03    0.00       0.00     .Cf
FAST ASTA A1D P,'TFIC    11.IJ    1.94     37.56    6.6O      76.67   12.32    229.97   18.1,2
hnroer Ee.-                0.19    0.03      c0.0O      .00      0.00      .00      0.00    0. c
China P.en.                0.08    0.01       0.00      .0O      0.00    .00        1.6?    0.1.
:i jj                      0.00      .00      0.00      .00      0.0O     .00       0.co     .00
1dong Kong                 0.02    0.00       0. 00     .         0.00     .O      0.27    0.01
Korea Rep.                 0.28    0.0A       C.00      .00      0.2l    0.02       3.03    O.0'i
)!a3ayo5a                   5.81t   0.98      3.98    0.70       0.32    0.01       1.17    0.10
papv,1/N,-,                 o. oo    . 0.o0  . 00  0.00o 00      0.00      .00      o.o      . 0o
Ph)ippines                 5.05    0.85       1l.99    0.87      6.99    2.20       L.3?    o.L
Singanare                  0.00      .00     28.51,   5.01      69.j   20.96    223.36   17.73
Tha2Wand                   0.03    0.00       0.05    0.00       0.08    0.01       0.30    o.0c
SOUrIo ASTA               26.97    J,.56     3h,.33    6.00      8.39    2.32      33.70    2.70
~Thn',3a,;sl,               0.00     .CO      0.00      .00      0.0CIO    .00      0.00     .00
Bu rna                      .09    0.01       0.00      .00      0.00     . 00      0. 00    .00
Sri lAnka                  0.0 o     .00      0.00)    .00       0.75    0.31       0.50    0.01O
Indja                     17.12    2.9,h    34.13    6.oo        5.52    0.87      23.21    2.86
PakIstan                   0.00      .00      0.00      .00      2.22    0.33       9.93    0.79
7;;IFsr'A                  9.16    1.60       5.61i   0.99       5.63    0.88       8.85    0.70
1 -JI,, - 7-r J a       1.87    0.31       o.65    0.11       0.72    0.1)      1.00    0.03
Bahrain                    0.00      .00      0 00      .00      0.00     .00       0. 00    .t
Cyprn                      0. O0     .00      0,00      .00   O  (.O',   .00        0. (t5   0. 00
Iran                        3.2)    0.51,    O0.0      .00       0.00      .00      0.00      .o0
Isral1                     0.32    0.02       0.37    a.06<.     0.78    0.22       1.08    O.O8
Jordan                     0.33    0.02       0.72    0.22       1.91,   0.30       3.23    0. 2'
Kxu,.,; I j t              C 0.00    .00      o.oG    o.0]       0.(3    0.00       0.00     .00
Lebarbiun                  0.08    0.02       0.13    0.02       0.22    0.01       0.07    0. 70
liby1:'n AR                0.00      .00      0.03    0.M0       0.06    0. (N      0.?    0.4)0
WIlta                      0.00      . 07     0.00      .00      (.0)    .0         0.0)    .V,)
M,,rroeco                   o.Al,   0.        0.?7'   o.o!, o.lO,        0.A0       0.0(     .00
Sy. r1                      3.;51    0.59     3.1,0   0.59       3I .92    0.30     3.39    0.27
Turkey                     0.00      ,03      0.00      . (      0.01    0.00        .(C)    .00
IIA I1                     0.13    0.0          .03    0 . (.) 00          , (      0.00 .C()



ANNEX 
Tab le 
Page 2
1955-59            2960-6hj           1965-69            1970-1?,
Country                   1000 jr Porcent  1000 vT  PoICOUt 2000 rr nerc(nt 2000) MrT  Percolit.
lic                         3.95    o.66       5.2f;   0.92       L.56    0.72       6.27    0.5(
Argentina                   0.43    0.07      0.2f    0.OIJ       0.05    0.00       0.05    0.00
Barbados                    0.0o     .00       0.00     .00       0.02    0. o       0.06    0. 0
Bran1                      O.lsl   0.06      0.00      .00       o.o6    0.00       0.05    0. U)
Chile                      0.00      .00      0.?.2   0.07       1.L3    0.27        0.02    0.C.'3
Co b oiqbJ a                0.52    0.08      2 .2)    0.19      0.00      .00       0.00     .C00
Costa itica                 0.02    0.00      2.08    0.18       1.6)    0.25        O.1A6    o.03
Ecuador                     1.33    0.22      1.51    0.26        o.91i   0.3h,      5.39    0.-13
E3 Salvador                 0.00     .00       0.01    0.00       0.00     .C        o 0.0 .o00
Guate-w,la                 0.ol,   0.0oo      0.0(1    0.00      0.02    0.00        0.00     .(0
ruya nA                     0.00     .00      0.00      .00      0. 00     .00      0.00      .00
l'onduras                   0.00     .00      0.29    0.05       0.00      .00       0.06    0.00
JamZiLca                   0.00      .00      0.02    0.00       0.00      .C00     0.00      .00
}Yatinoque                  0.00     .00      0.00      .00       0.00     .00       0.01    0.00
)-' Exico 5 C O           0.87    0.11i      0.37    0.02       0.19    0.03      o0.6    0.0)
?Iicaraigua                 O.00     .00      0.01    0.00       0.1.    0.02        0.00     .00
Peru              ,        0.00      .00      0.09    0.01       o.o6    0.00        0.01    0.00
Tr!ni 'ad                   0.37    0.02      0.C00     .00      0.00      .00       0.00     .00
Venezuela                   0.16    0.02      0.27-  o.o4        0.0co     .00       0.00     .00
OTl7FRS                   532.52   90.13    h78.28  8&.11    5?) .97   82.21   91i2 .5'    7 5.LS;
Aiu.stra2ia                 0.39    0.06      2. 49    0.h3      2.96    0.L6       10.01    O.80
Austria                     2.59    0.A3      1.28    0.22       0.29    0.03        3.2L    0.2:
el Lux                   Li.ll1   7.00      Lo.i9    7.06      26.51   th.19       25.06    2.00
Canada                    17.35    2.93      11.53    2.02      11.08    1.75      18.'2    1.i6
Der-.ark                  12.OIJ    2.03      3.81t   0.67       1.58    0.2ll       8.56    O.G'
Facroc s lsl.              0.co    .*        0.0      .00      0.00      .00       0.00     .C;o
Firnland                    0.93    0.16      0.05    0.00       0.02    0.00        0.82    0.0'
Franme                    29.09    5.07      3Ii.90    6.23     38.00    6.00      L9.14    3.%3
Gcrr-any FR               72.1 3   12.25     86.57   15.22    3)5.07   16.19   )l.(,. 4      l1.?g
2ce3and                     0.00     .00      0.01    0.00       0.00      .00       0.00     .00
Irelan,d                    3.13    0.52      hL. iI    0.72     3.36    o.L9       b.25    0.34
Italy                     15.52    2.62      27.59    4z.85     38.18    6.03       51.71    1I.2.L
Japan                     39.77    3.31i    15.30    2.69       25.70    L.06      70.35    5.63
Netherlands                60.80   13.67     71. 50   13.10     69.32   10.95    137.56   12.0?
1ocu Zealand                0.00     .00      0.01    0.00       0.01    0.00        0.36    0.02
Nomwmy                      1.03    0.17      0.61    0.11      0.22    0.03        9.93    0.79
Portuga)                    9.73    1.6b     1h.29    2.51      15.1,8   2.1d    1.35    1.51
S. Africa                   0.93    0.16      0.00    0.00       0.11    0.01        0.97    0.07
Spain                       3.4o    0.57      0.22    0.03       2.39    0.37        5.70    o.L.:)
Swveen                     1.90    0.33      2.03    0.35       2.5i1    0.1:0      7.50    O.t0
Swit7.crand                 1.53    0.25      1.55    o.27       2.59    O'0         ii.93    0.39
UK                       197.05   33.35    136.70   21.0!    2?2.85   29.112    21?.23   16.V'
Us                         15.02    2.5h     15.25    2.68       37.35    5.87    1L7.B6   11 .!
Yugoslavia                  0.70    0.11      1.11    0.19       3.31    0.20       0.11:    0.01o
China PR                   o.o6    0.01       0.03   .0.00       0.32    0.05       0.00      .00
Cuba                        0.07    0.01      0.00    0.00       0.00      .00.      0.00     .00
C?.echos.lova1da           0.5         o009   0.72    0.12       0.79    0.12        5.27    0.l 2
llun ary                    3.09    0.52      1.0b    0.2.8      05L    0.08         0.12    0.00
Pozald                      0.93    0.25      1.08    0.28       3.8L    0.29        8.1l1    0.67
USS!:t                      O.Q      .00      1.22    0.21       2.06    0.32        0.00     .00
V'0h1.!) TOTAL            590o.8   203.00    565.51  2OO.CO    6v3.'9  200.00  ] ,2ht7.P3  200.00
_  P.7=
Yarch~~~~~                                  _     .7.6



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WORLD PRODUCTION OF SELECTED OILSEEDS, FATS AND OILS (FAT OR OIL EQUIVALENT),
ACTUAL 1960, AVERAGE 1967-69, 1975, PROJECTED 1980 AND 1985
(In G000 Metric Tons)
1960            1967-69             1975              1980              19b5
Fat/Oil         1000 BT % Share  1000 MT  % Share  1000 MT % Share  1000 MT  % Share  1000 ?.  %_ Share
Soybean Oil       3,295   12.3    5,358    15.5    8,550    19.2   11,900    22.1L    13,500    23.2
Sunflowerseed Oil 1,665    6.2      3,652    10.5     4,070     9.2     5,200     9.8    5,14o0    9.3
Cottonseed Oil    2,165     8.-    2,310      6.7     3,005     6.8     3,400    6.1L    3,700      6.4
Groundnut Oil     2,555     9.6    3,2148     9.4    3,245      7.3    3,600      6.8     3,800      6.5
Rapeseed Oil      1,105    4.1    1,655    14.8    2,495        5.6    2,800      5.3     3,000      5.2
Olive Oil         1,180    14.4    1,307      3.8    1,500      3.14    1,600     3.0     1,700      2.9
PalT Oil          1,250    14.7    1,382      4.0    2,925      6.6     4,600     8.7     5,900    10.1
Coconut Oil       1,955    7.3    2,072       5.9    2,515      5.7     3,000     5.6     3,200      5.5
PalTh Kernel Oil    1414o    1.7      383     1.1       695     1.6       900     1.7     1,000     1.7
Fish oil            462    1.7      1,058     3.0    1,250      2.8    1,300      2.14   1i,oo       2.4
Butter            3,855   114.4    14,017    11.6    5,135   11.5    5,300    10.0        5,500      9.L4
Tallow            3,050   11.4    14,228    12.2    5,085   11.14    5,500    10.2        5,900    10.1
Lard              3,733   14.1    3,988    11.5    3,950        8.9    14,100     7.7     4,300     7.3
TOTAL            26,710   100.0   314,658  100.0   14,L20  100.0   53,200   100.0    58,300   100.0
Sources: USDA: 1960-69
IBRD: 1975-85
Commodities and Export Projections Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department
Development Policy Staff 
March 5, 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WORLD EXPORTS OF' SEIECTED OI1.SFEDS, FATS AND OIIS (FAT OR OIL EQUIVALENrT),
ACTUAL 1960, AVERAGE 1967-69, 1975 PROJFCTFD 1980 AND 1985
(In 1000 metric tons)
1960             1967-69              1975               1980               1 95
Fat/Oil             2 000 MT     Share  1000 MT  I Share  1000 Ml T    Share  2000 MT d Share  1OCO !T d  Share
Soybean 01           1,b00    19.8      1,992    19.8      3,565    27.1      1.,900    28.0     5,700    27.8
Sunflowerseed Oil      245     3.3      1,138    11.3        765     5.8      1,250      7.2     1,300      6.3
Cottonseed Oil         29L     L.1        226     2.3        425      3.2       h6o      2.6        510     2.5
Grouncnut Oil          826    1l.L      1,037    10.3        7h5      5.7       9140     5-.        950     L.6
Rapeseed Oil            92     1.3        439     4.L        715      5.7       920      5.3     1,020      5.0
Olive Oil               69     3.0         82     0.8         63      0.5       100      0.6        110     0.6
Palm Oil               587      8.1       607     6.0      1,800    13.7      3,050    17.5      L,690    22.9
Coconut Oil          1,152    15.9      1,182    11.8      1,b25    10.8      1,650      9.4     1,750      8.5
Palm Kernel Oil        L07      5.6       299      3.0       396      3.0       420      2.4        435     2.1
Fish Oil               222     3.1        672     7.7        600      h.6       740      L.2        790     3.9
Butter                 426      5.9       511i    5.1        717      5.5       790    14.5         830     L.l
Tnl1ow               1,076    14.9      1,h417    1.h      1,100    10.7      1,820    10.) 1,950           9.5
Lard                   407     5.6        409     4.1        490      3.7        440     2.5        L60     2.2
TOTAL                7,2L3   100.0    10,043   100.0    13,136   100.0    17,480   100.0    20,495   100.0
Sources: USDA: 1960-69
IBRD: 1975-85
EPDCE
April 9, 1976



PAPUA NEh GUINEA
POPONDETTA SALLUiOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRICES AND PRICE INDEX oF SELCCTED FATS AND OILS 1/ CIF EURDPZ, 1960-1980 AND 1985
(In US dollars per metric ton)
Year     Soybean    Sunflower    Cottonseed    Groundnut   Rapeseed         Olive      Palm     Coconut    Palm Kernel      Fish       Lard      Butter    Tallaw    Price Index
1960       225          243          235            326         219          585        228        312          317           155       214       851       142          33.5
61       287         311           305           331          ?80         561         232       254           263          139        225       706       158          33.1
62       227         2L6           266            275         221         631         216       251           255          104        218       822       137          3'.5
63       223         236           243            268         215          871        222       286           287          160        216       900       141          32.3
64       205         255           250           315          252          586        240       297           299           203       251       931       168          34.1
1965       270          294          278            324         263          663        273        348          353           217       293       918       200          36.2
66       261         263           333            296         244         661         236       324           271          196        282      833        180          34.9
67       216         212           378           283          206         690         224       328           249          127        205      817        144          31.2
68       178         172           305           271          161         681         169       399           367            99       169       709       129          28.6
69       228         213           291           332          200          666        181       361           306          150        216      709        166          32.2
1970       307          331          354            379         293          699        260       397           429           248       271       733       202          41.0
71       323         375           392           441          295          727        261       371           3135         221        262    1,048        196          43.6
72       270         326           324            426         232          916        217       234           244          182        251    1,209        179          37.3
73      1465        1480           500            546         395       1,399         378       513           491          342        373       975       356          59.1
74       795          983          939         1,077          745       2,174         669       998         1,010          559        602    1,216        1448        100.o
1975       619          739          726            857         551        2,436        433       393           439           344       479    1,669        340          75.5
76       376         600           645           675          390       2,350         370       340           360          330        410    1,760        380          62.4
77       416         615           648            714         416       2,168         397       403           423          337        383    1,719        370          64.5
78       464         628           650           755          450       2,000         433       485           485          343       1428    1,670        371         68.0
79       514         721           644           796          476       1,833         471       583           568          353        460    1,626        376          72.6
1980       568         689           640           836          506       1,675         509       693           657          361        509    1,568        361          76.3
1985       910       1,013         1,130         1,320          835       2,790         737     1,094         1,060          610        795    2,556        592         120.2
Descriotions:
Soybean Oil:  Crude, US, CIF Rotterdam.                                 Coconut Oil:  Philippines/Indonesian, bulk, CIF Rotterdam.  For 1973, Dutch, 5%, ex-mill;   ,.
Sunflower Oil:  Any origin, ex-tank Rotterdam.                                         prior to 1973, White Ceylon, 1%, bulk, ex-tank Rotterdam.
Cottorseed Oil:  US, PBSY, CIF Rotterdam.                               Palm Kernel Oil:  West African, CIF UK.
Groundnut Oil:  .Nigerian/Gambian/Any Origin, CIF Europe.               Fish Oil:  Any origin, crude, CIF Europe.  Prior to March 1973, Peruvian, semi-refined.            j
Rapeseed Oil:  Dutch, FOB ex-mill.                                      Lard:  EEC refining quality, CIF UK.  Prior to February 1973, US, Prime Steam, CIF UJK.
Olive Oil:  Spanish, edible, 1% drums.                                  Buttert Dutch, bulk, unsalted, UK markets.
Palm Oil:  Malaysian, 5%, CIF UlK.                                      Tallow:  US, bulk, bleachable fancy, CIF Rotterdam.
Price Index weighted by current world exports (1974-100).
April 9, 1976



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDOR OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
PRICES AND PRICE DNDEX OF SELECTUD FA7S AND OILS 1/ CIF EUROPE, 196"-1980 AND 1985
(In constant US dollars per metric ton)
Year    Soybean    Sunflower    Cottonseed    Groundnut    Rapeseed      Olive       Palm      Coconut    Palm Kernel       Fish        Lard      Butter      Tallow     Price 'ndex
1;6;      L0.  LSo.5                464.7        644.7        433.1     1,156.8     450.9       617.0         626.9        306.5       123.2     1,692.8      28-).8        66.3
61      699.3       757.8         713.2        806.5        682.3     1,367.0     565.3       618.9        640.8         338.7       548.2     1,720.3      385.0         80.8
62      L5.8        433.1         522.L        540.1        434.0    1,239.2      424.2       492.9        500.8         204.2       428.1     1,614.3      269.^)        59.8
63      434.9       L60.2         173.9        522.6        L19.3    1,698.5      432.9       557.7         559.7        312.0       121.2    1,755.1       275.0         62.9
6L      397.0       L93.8         484.1        610.0        488.0    1,131.8      464.8       575.1         579.0        393.1       486.1     1,802.9     325.3          66.1
1965      515.1       563.9         530-3        618.1        501.7    1,264.8      520.8       663.9         673.4        114.0       558.9    1,751.2       381.5         72.9
66      L56.8       4s9.6         621.2        552.1        455.1    1,233.0    440.2         6014.4        505.5        365.6       526.0     1,553.8      335.8         6 5.0
67      399.8       392.L         699.6        523.8        381.3     1,277.1    L11.6        607,1        460.9         235.1       379.4     1,512.1      266.5         57.8
68      331.3       320.1         567.7        504.4        299.6    1,267.4    311.5         742.6        683.0         184.3       31L.5     1,319.6    210,^.1         53.2
69      409.3       382.1         522.0        595.5        358.7     1,191.6     324.7       617.5         518.9        269.1       387.1     1,271.7      297.8         57.7
1970      514.8       555.5         593.7        635.6        491.1     1,172.2    136.0        665.8         719.4        115.9       L54.5     1,2??X.2     338.8         65.7
71      510.0       592.1         619.0        696.4        165.8     1,118.0     112.1       585.8        529.0         3L9.0       L13.7     1,658.8     30 9.5         68.8
72      ,92.0       173.4         470.5        618.6        336.9     1,330.0     315.1       339.8         351.3        264.3       361.5     1,755.5      25'h9         5L.1
73      569.2       587.6         612.1        668.4        483.5     1,712.0     462.7       628.0        601.1         418.7       156.6     1,193.5     L35.8          72.3
7.      795.0       983.0         939.0      1,077.0        745.o     2,171.0    669.0        998.0       1,010.0        559.0       602.0     1,216.0    113.0          100.0
1975      510.7       6L5.5         634.1        748.5        181.3     2,127.7'   378.2        343.3         383.4        3no.5       h18.4     1,157.8      207.0         66.0
76      308.3       492.0         528.9        553.6        319.8     1,927.2     303.4       278.8        295.2         270.6       336.2    1,113. 3     311.6          51.2
77      311.7       465.2         190.2        510.1        314.7     1,639.9    300.3        304.8         320.0        254.9       289.7     1,300.3      279.9         Le
78      325.0       139.9         455.3        528.9        315.2     1,401.1    303.3        339.8         339.8        240.3       299.8    1,169.9       259.9         17.6
79     335.o        470.0 o19.8                518.8        310.3     1,191.8    307.0        380.0        370.2         230.1       299.8     1,n59.8     215.1          07.3
1238      315.9       I19.6         389.7        509.1        308.1    1,020.0      310.0        422.0        400.1        219.8       310.0       951.8      219.8         16.5
1935      375.2       439.9         190.7        573.2        362.6    1,211.5    320.0         475.1         460.3        264.9       345.0     1,109.9      257.1         52.2
1./ Descrintions:
S_;bean Oil:  Crude, US, CIF Rotterdam.                                         Coconut Oil:  Philippines/Indonesian, bulk, CIF Rotterdamr..  For 1973, Dqhch, 5%, ex-:ill;
S-,nflower Oil:  Any origin, ex-tank Rotterdam.                                               prior to 1973, White Ceylon, 1% bulk, ex-tank Rotterdan.
Cottonseed Oil:  US, P35Y, CIF Rotterdam.                                       Palm Kernel Oil:  West African, CIF UK.
Groundnaut Oil- Nigerian/Gamb'lan/Any Origin, CIF Europe.                       Fish Oil: Any origin, crude, CIF Europe.  Prior to March 1973, Peruvian, semi-refined.
Raneseed Oil:  Dutch, FOB ex-mill.                                              Lard:  EEC refining quality, CIF UK. Prior to February 1973, US, Prime Steam, CIF UK.
Olive Oil:  Soanish, edible, 1% drums.                                          Butter:  Dutch, bulk, unsalted, IUK markets.
Palm Oi1: Malaysian, 5% CIF LU..                                                Tallow: US, bulk, bleachable fancy, CIF Rotterdam.                                       tIz
Price Index weighted by oonstant. world exports (1974-100).
April 9, 1976



PALM OIL PRODUCTION FOR SELECTED COUNTRIES (1961-1974)                              G1qh  1
I
1000
900
,                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
800                                                                          /
//
700                                                                    /
MALAYSIA
c   600  _
z 
LU       .          ,                                               I
+   500             ~~~~~N I G E R I A  -\#t 
400
NEIINDONESIA
300                                                                            4 X
300                                                             /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
200                                       ae
1 00  >-                                                                    ,
IVORY COAST
1961        1963        1965         1967        1969         1971        1973
YEARS
World Bank-15954



ANA 11
PALM OIL EXPORTS FOR SELECTED COUNTRIES (1961-1974)                                     Graph 2
900  i
i
800   -
i
700  -
i
600  _
MALAYSIA
0
                                                                         i
500
o                                                                      I
z
Cr 
(1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
DI                                                                   I
400                                                          ,
1   0/
/'
/'
300  _
j                  I N DON ES I A 
200  _/ 
100~~~~~~ |                                                     I__VORY COAST
NIGERIA
0
1961         1963         1965         1967         1969         1971          1973
YEARS
World Bank-15967



PALM OIL IMPORTS FOR SELECTED COUNTRIES (1961 -1974)                     ANNEX 3
250
200
UK    X
i5   '
snn 
D1 25UK-
200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
/   GERMANY F RI/
75 t\\                            | ~~~~~~~~~ O~SA
150 hNETHERLANDS
0     - 
1961       1963       1965        1967       1969        1971       1973
YEA RS
Vor Id Bank- 15955



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return of the project has been determined in
accordance with a number of assumptions in respect to the project benefits and
project costs which are quantified in the accompanying table. These assumptions
are enumerated below.
Benefits
2.        Smallholder income has been calculated on the basis of a net FFB price
to the producer of K 22.5 per ton. This assumes palm oil and kernel prices of
US$400 and US$250 per ton cif Europe in constant 1976 prices which is in line
with Bank commodity price projections. It also assumes the various cost and
production coefficients (based on the Hoskins project) which are set out in
Annex 7, Table 2.
3.        In relation to freight savings, the deep-sea wharf facility at Oro
Bay has been described in Annex 5. This facility is identical with the wharf
construction at Kimbe as part of the Hoskins oil palm development project.
Because of increased sea freight turnover as a result of that project, sub-
stantial savings have been achieved because direct overseas cargo shipment
has been possible and been far less costly than trans-shipment via Rabaul.
A similar benefit will undoubtedly accrue to the proposed Popondetta develop-
ment and for the purpose of the appraisal, its quantification has been based
on the following:
(a) annual cargo handling - 21,000 tons (based on actual 1975 tonnage);
(b) without the proposed project, this entire tonnage would be trans-
shipped via Lae at a cost of K 26.30 per ton of which K 7.10
represents wharfage and handling at Oro Bay and Lae and K 2.74
represents stevedoring;
(c) with the proposed project, 33% of cargo currently being tran-
shipped in Lae would be directly shipped into or out of over-
seas ports;
(d) the savings on foreign exchange costs associated with this
transfer would be 75% of K 16.46, i.e. K 12.34 per ton.
4.        No account has been taken of benefits accruing to the economy from
the processing of smallholder FFB production into palm oil and kernels. With-
out accurate details of expected milling costs, these benefits are difficult
to estimate but broadly, they would directly involve:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(a) the Government's share (50%) of FC net profit
distribution; and
(b) taxation proceeds (corporate and personal) associated
with the operation of the mill facility.
Costs
5.        All development costs except those associated with road works,
include a 5% physical contingency. For road construction and upgrading,
a 20% allowance for physical contingencies has been included.
6.        To obtain a realistic evaluation of the economic return to the
investment in oil palm, it is proposed that the infrastructure development
costs associated with extension services, social services and roads should
not be fully charged to the project. Based on the experience of the Hoskins
project and the demography of the Popondetta area, 75% of the cost of exten-
sion services and 30% of social services have been costed to the project.
With a predominance of public roads in the proposed upgrading and new con-
struction program, no more than 70% of the related development costs should
be charged against the project.
7.        The full minimum rural wage rate (K 1.62 per day) has been used to
determine the financial rate of return for smallholder oil palm development.
However, in calculating the economic rate of return, a shadow wage rate of
K 0.80 per day (reflecting the negligible alternative employment opportunities
in the Popondetta area) has been adopted and the difference of K 0.82 included
in the benefit stream displayed in the accompanying table.
Results
8.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project benefits
and costs over a 31 year period, the economic rate of return is estimated to
be 14%. If all the infrastructure development costs are borne by the project,
then the rate of return would drop to 10.9%. Additional sensitivity tests
have been performed as set out below, covering an overall increase in costs
and a change in benefits as a result of altering world market conditions
for oil palm products and/or FFB yields.
(a)  10% overall cost increase                11.5%
(b)  10% benefit increase                     16.35%
(c)  10% benefit reduction                    11.35%
(d)  combination of (a) and (b)               13.95%
(e)  combination of (a) and (c)                8.85%



ANNEX 12
Page 3
9.        The non-quantifiable benefits of the project, in addition to those
associated with FFB processing (para 4), would include the improved health
and education of settlers' families and the multiplier effects, so apparent
at Kimbe, of local capital formation and increased levels of consumption
expenditure.
10.       These results suggest that by even adopting pessimistic assumptions
as to variations in costs and benefits and at the same time ignoring those
benefits which cannot be quantified, the economic rate of return would still
be adequate to justify the proposed investment.



a  R  A- ~~~~~~~~~1  Ai  Ai    A4                                                                             91        U,~~~~386  88  2216
24.21  24 7          2     119.       80.      8I1      482        8 3       84           1       8  .3 0a I7                             23 2   30  0     92        95 I      91.       91.       9                31 21t  2                                  . Ii  3             3       893      ft3        U
388181 18.98234-36088                  ~~~~~~~4.6   40 3  74.0I   94 I    109        U11.5      3.         121.5           122.9, II  12,1 5     125    121 5    121 5    221 3    321.3        I  I 123      121   11 5    II S    III 5    121 5    221 5    121.5    121.5           223 12       1361        9 I.  z  621.5    121.5    121 5
- 21o..o1.8               ~~~~~~- 73.1    369       126.5      658       377       23  103I            105I     10.5      133  1.5            10 5 I.5  103I     30.3      10t5      10.3      00to5     303       11  1      9   5    165 I     935       16 5      10        I  518   to85      18.5      80 5      18.5      18.3
3*94,1340 2.S.too,,                    ~~~~~~~47.3I  122 8  - 4    3-.3      66       825          1 15.0  5.       950 I     353       23.2     732  25.2I~ .       23.7      23 2      23.2      23. 2     25.2     8.5.2     25.2      27.2      Zs3.2     151 I     25 2      25 2      23.2I     23.2      83.2      28. 2     25.2      28.2
438..p296  3203.33                      . .~           ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ -  .  173.0    20.0.   265.0    383 3    577, I0    430.9  OM9.     166.0~   459 0    456.0I   436.7    639.7    442.5    435. 4    423.0    11.7.       41 .4    352 2    380.6    268 7    3559.1    34  6    37 6    I31  5    254.0    163.3                  36.9
79681  (6)                               97~~~~~~~~~~~~I3 7  636 4  1.410.1  2.10.3  1,992 9  0,795 5  1.333 7  1,421 8  1,1399  1 .507 2  7.384 3  1,677.1  1,5188    1 ,618.2   2,626 2  I1,32.5  1,52321   1.4157  6,l        ,1       ,531.4   I38.   1,3785  1481.0                    1 38.8   .&M8   1.02*2          sl aL     S".7        I.
08-1622- 2.92                                                                            40.5     245 0    879 5!.153 0  1,962.0    ,1.   2,460    2,908.9  7.302 0  2.420 5  0,427 8  2.305 0  2,342 0  2,789 0  2,123 0  2,157 82,03, 0  2,036 3  1.372 3  1,9088.0   86.3                            4,36.3  4,796.7  3,53.6  1,213 5    6590 8    8   5
-2*832-   5..-  809,                                                                      W 10      38.0    17530     23.0    4800        3658 7    6020      615.0    6110      634.1    383 0       838.7    572.0    559 7    345 0    52770        5007     4988      4827,    46630    451 0    458 I    423.8    34.2    266.0    969.4              54.0
7* A995..o9  I/                                          16.1      727    164        25I5.0     3.       265.0    792 0    28.4    793 4    593 a    0170           314, 1    56 1    313.5    2370    26  5    041 6    329 4    1223             729 7    223.4    I2284    229.8    288 I    226 3    222.1I    2100            146 7      83.3      81 I
-LL8I609 y6j*                                                     453~    430o        86.-       6       860       861       891       88  860o  t        860       860       23.1~    860        86.3      660      6 6.0      830o     860.      860.      86.7       880o     860.       W 89.    88        860       84.2      84.8      66.8      66.0
699.89.9                             . .             . ~ ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  2 2  17     40..7 90.4    115    145.0    055 0   148        4149    184 7    14l1.    138.8       126 1    132 8    720.0       1324      117.3    162.8    109 1    I.,    122. 1           88.6      85 2      68.2      67.3      36.2      12 2
semi   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                           214a 7     039    383.7        1L 221 3I 1484I    ~11,39 I    416.4  3  206-            ,92.   3  _664.3  1.6216  3  _561.9  3,489.8  3,422.9   3 32.56  3,209.4  2.423.0  3 32.7  2 56  3  2.879 8  2j72,4  1,718.1  .J1A8&   2 541      2.V4a2  UJAW     1.32.                    if
Tota  (6)0908  1511-,00 o34o. ..   4*9o. .......73  o......1~ - 4.-1., 71  13                 - -8 -73.8296819191-1-,08 3-  - 8 6.1.119.18
488, =28.-   -     h.082028  p1-.2 . 08 90 6 I.8     .,-p-                                               t.82y814e888265,0922085  319238I.0,  o08d8r1283 98801988             86
.1tA.8  adtr..  986008-    98980'7fIt   r  o  76,of ,9.   3,782



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Recovery
1.        The annex examines the implications for public revenues and
farmers' incomes of the Government's policies towards the recovery of
the capital and recurrent costs incurred in the project. In determining
the extent of cost recovery and the relation of project charges to
benefits, two indices have been used, which are defined as follows for the
present project:
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of the present worth of in-
cremental charges paid by project farmers to present worth
of incremental project development and operation and mainten-
ance costs; and
(b) Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental charges and
taxes paid by a typical farm family to incremental "project
rent" accruing to the family before paying charges, where
"project rent" is defined as net incremental income less the
value of family labor, returns to management and incremental
investments, and allowances for uncertainty.
The upper limit of the rent recovery index is 100%, but it would normally
be less than that because of political difficulties, tax disincentives,
and costs of collecting taxes. Rent is a difficult concept to measure in
practice, but an attempt is made to determine reasonable quantitative
estimates of its various components based on qualitative considerations.
2.        All charges, costs and benefits are measured at present values
discounted at 10% annual rate of interest over the 31-year evaluation period,
and in terms of 1976 constant prices. Costs and benefits represent financial
flows. The repayment period for loans to farmers includes four years grace,
then 4 to 9 years of repayment at 11% interest. Unless the annual inflation
rate is known over the 31 years, it is impossible to analyze cost and rent
recovery under these terms using current prices. Thus, the cost and rent
recovery indices have been calculated in terms of 1976 constant prices.
3.        In the cost recovery analysis, costs charged against the project
are, 100% of farm development costs, 75% of Extension Services, 70% of Road
Construction and 30% of Social Services since all the benefits are not
captured by project beneficiaries. The present value of these costs dis-
counted at 10% their total net present value is K 9.4 M. The overall pro-
ject cost recovery index is 63%.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.         In the rent recovery analysis two farm models are shown; one
for Existing Settlers and one for New Settlers who actually migrate into
the project area and begin from a totally new position. Farm budget data
(Annex 3) are used to derive the net incremental income due to the pro-
ject for each farm group. Incremental family labor was priced at its oppor-
tunity cost of K 0.80/man-day while an allowance of 10% of gross incremental
income was given for value of farmers' management.  The return on farmers' new
investment funds was calculated at 10% of value and an uncertainty allowance
of 10% of gross incremental value of production was made for seasonal variabil-
ity. Under these assumptions and discounting project rent and charges over
the 31 year project life rent recovery was 57% for the new settlers and 74%
for the existing settlers and villagers (Table 1).
5.         There are problems in estimating equitable allowances in these cal-
culations particularly with imputing a value for family labor. If the full
money wage rate of K 1.62/man-day is charged agains the rent then the rent
recovery indices are all above 100%. In these analyses the shadow (economic)
price of labor has been charged at K 0.80. Consequently, these indices must
be regarded as the minimum with "most likely" recovery values somewhat higher
if a more generous allowance is considered appropriate for labor and risk.
6.         These levels of rent recovery are considered satisfactory since
it is not possible to be precise in identifying with any degree of accuracy
the incentive needed to reward the farmers adequately. Secondly, all farmers
do not have the same degree of profitability and some will have a rent re-
covery higher than these. In spite of these comparatively high rent re-
covery indexes the net family income rises from K 615/year to K 1,500/year.
This should be more than adequate incentive to participate.



ANNEX 13
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery
Existing              New
Settler             Settler
Incremental  1.  Gross Value Farm Production 1/                  K 9,581            K 9,581
2.  Less cash production costs                       1,510              1,510
3.  Less interest on borrowed capital                  370                898
4.  Less imputed value of family labor 2/            1,388              1,388
5.  Less imputed value of management 3/                964                 964
6.  Less imputed return on own capital 4/            1,938              1,538
7.  Less allowance for risk/uncertainty  5/            964                964
8.  Less income tax                                    200                 200
7,334              7,462
11.  Equals Rent/Surplus                              2,247               2,119
12.  Direct Capital Recovery Charges                  1,282              1,577
13.  Rent/Recovery Index                                 57%                 74%
14.  Recovery Charges/Farm                            1,282              1,577
15.  Total Project Recovery Charges                   5,963  6/
16.  Total Project Costs                              9,407   (K'000)
17.  Cost Recovery Index                                 63%
1/ Annex 3, Tables 9 and 10.
2/ At K 0.8 per man-day.
3/ At 10% of gross incremental farm income.
4/ At 10% of farmer's own incremental investment funds.
5/ At 10% of gross incremental farm income.
6/ Loan repayments (including interest), export taxes, income taxes and transport charges.






IBRD 11092R
N)                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAPUA NEW GUI'NEA
M AN4S                                                                                                               POPONDETTA SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM~
- ---- -- ---- ------
MANUS                                  E~~~I    FW    I F E I A N D                                    ,prooed lpaO M projcrt
I     ROo00~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ExistrigoilpoI-ree
lHoskes Project, Credits 17-e0 T751
 Capital
8 is oon o    I   I S a                                                                           0  Towns
~~~~~1                                                                                                 '     NEW ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRELAND  -Roads
5 E P   K                                                                                                                             Dismot boUrda,,es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Ditrc ondne
C                                                                                   I                                                                          -.-Cotennotroeol boossdorino~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---    ---  ---   -----     -fri-io.0 o,,dwe
F   S E p/KRb,                                                                                                               Is rs   0
I __  f    7         MA4~~~~~~~~~~~~ANG         W/                                        Broil W 8   IT    /
1  I  E                                                                                                     NEW G AC
t                                                                                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I- SHo1H Bo,moNn IL
C0 I                        Kerenro     I                                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 57 NE      RIT       
0                                                          N                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                
Qt-rlf  o/           erOoro ,               I/I   ."/,  fD
rej ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K-                                  I C            \   NORHER
I         ~~~N                        /       a H(E R N
LI f;  o f             "o~I 
I apqc~~~~IN 
Pe,rr1'ioOreron  UL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae
CAVNwu* CCINrA?  
0-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ Crl                                                              Se
(  Or ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                            
Th, W,.d- A-   ft  d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?
-.-Inrernoejoeol beuedoeeo                                        Cr'                                    no'                                   or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tk






2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o                                                              t- E0
4" -SJ LU        !         S  i<atE ,s9') _><-
0
0 X  E d  t;    F- E   t   0 0 A   -      ;s                               k       O t                                         w
Z~~ ~    ----\-< Z  -E A 
S4W    **e N4                                             *,-a-                                                                   
O S . E                             i
9     ~~~~~~~10 
-z    a
(4 +4 __ *           a- 2           - -
Z<Z                               ;.  .-t- -,+.---- --F*---- -               -- - -    - - -                                                )
,   t-  z * * < *-~a, 
4,,,  .S. * ,s, . , < X o~~~~~~~~4



