Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21507-MAG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED PROJECT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 85.2 MILLION
(US$110 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 23, 2001
Human Development Department, Group IV
AFCO8
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/6/00)
Currency Unit = Malagasy Francs (MGF)
MGF 1.00 = US$0.000147
US$1 = MGF 6,800
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 st - December 31 st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CRESAN        Health Sector Improvement Project (Credit Sante)
CRESED        Education Sector Reinforcement Project (Credit Education)
EU            European Union
FID           Community Development Fund (Fonds d'Intervention pour le
Developpement)
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding.
IDA           International Development Association
MIS           Management Infornation System
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Hafez Ghanem
Sector Manager/Director:    Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Eileen Murray



MADAGASCAR
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         3
2. Key performance indicators                                                            3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                     5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          8
3. Benefits and target population                                                        9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                              13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                      15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             16
2. Financial                                                                             16
3. Technical                                                                             17
4. Institutional                                                                         17
5. Environmental                                                                         18
6. Social                                                                                20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       21
2. Critical risks                                                                        22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       23



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             23
2. Other                                                                                23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disburserhent Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: Coordination with other IDA financed projects focusing on rural development
Annex 12: Background information on decentralization
MAP(S)
IBRD 20035RI



MADAGASCAR
Community Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC08
Date: March 23, 2001                               Team Leader: Eileen Murray
Country Manager/Director: Hafez Ghanem             Sector Manager/Director: Arvil Van Adams
Project ID: P055166                                Sector(s): BD - Decentralization, SA - Social Assistance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y'
Project Financing Data
[ 1 Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): Total of $US 110 over 5 years.
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                     Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        7.00            0.00          7.00
IDA                                                           106.80            3.20        110.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              20.00            0)00         20.00
Total:                                                        133.80            3.20        137.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR
Responsible agency: FONDS D'INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT (FID)
Direction Generale
Address: Lot II J - Villa "Alma"
Ambodivoanjo - 101 Antananarivo
MADAGASCAR
Contact Person: Arsene Randriamamonjy
Tel: (261-20) 22 42377               Fax: (261-20) 22 24689                Emai[: fid(dts.mg



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
:;00$l:FY ; 0 i 2002  2003        2004      2005   V2006   X2007
Annual   15.00       20.00      20.00      20.00      25.00      I 0.00
Cumulative    15.00      35.00      55.00      75.00     100.00     110.00
Project implementation per od: January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
The program targets poor and, especially, physically isolated rural communities.
OCS PAD Fon- R.F  Md, 2M)
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to improve use of and satisfaction with project-supported social and
economic services within poor rural communities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex l)
The indicators of attainment of the project development objective are:
*   A minimum of 80% utilization of designed capacity for:
-Enrollment in primary schools
-Visits to health centers
-Uses of potable water supply
-Hectares irrigated and cultivated
-Vehicles per week that use rural roads
*   At least 70% of beneficiaries report they are satisfied with services from project-supported
infrastructure.
Note: Annex I sets forth the indicators of project outputs.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 16249-MAG            Date of latest CAS discussion: 02/18/97
A central CAS objective is to assure that economic growth is broad-based and benefits the poor. Since a
large majority of the poor live in rural areas, the CAS aims to reduce rural poverty by improving the
productivity and competitiveness of the rural economy.
To this end the CAS proposes investments in human capital development in rural areas, and in particular in
education, basic health care, water, nutrition, and rural infrastructure. Moreover, the CAS supports
strengthening the delivery of basic social and economic services in poor areas through decentralization of
power and resources to communities.
The Project addresses these objectives through intensive investment in provision of social and economic
services in poor rural areas. Over the medium and long term, a sustained flow of improved social and
economic services from the investments is expected to improve public health and education in the targeted
communities. This increase in human capital would then contribute to higher labor productivity and
incomes there.
The Project would support the CAS objective of decentralization through significant devollution of powers
to communities. Most importantly, all investments would be selected and implemented by community
associations or by commune-level governments. The long-term vision is that the transfer of funds to
communes will be successful so that communes will play a key role in rural development. Although its role
would change, the FID would become a permanent instrument for targeted transfers of matching funds to
the community and commune levels and for implementation activities.
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty in Madagascar. The population of Madagascar, to a large extent, has experienced a long descent
into extraordinary misery as average real income per capita fell by a third over 1960-99. The growth of
real GDP recovered in the 1990s but this did not reduce poverty rates. Instead, the poverty rate was
broadly stable in the 1990s, rising from 70 percent in 1993 to 73% in 1997 and then slipping to 71% in
1999. Physical measures of nutrition are an alternative and basic indicator of poverty. Unfortunately,
stunting (age/height) improved only marginally over the decade and so was roughly consistent with the
poverty rate.
However, there were some significant changes in the profile of poverty in the 1990s. The rural poverty rate
rose from 74.5% in 1993 to 76.7% 1999, despite migration of poor rural families to urban areas --which
led to a smaller increase in the poverty rate there. The worsening of rural poverty seems associated with
physical isolation caused by a breakdown of the road system.
The distribution of income among provinces shifted significantly in the 1990s. Toliara was the poorest
province in 1993, with a poverty rate of 81%, but poverty fell to 72% in 1999. In contrast, poverty in
Mahajanga deteriorated dramatically from 53% in 1993, which was the most moderate poverty rate in the
country, to 76% in 1999 --well above the national average. Similarly, poverty in Antsiranana (Diego
Suarez) was relatively modest in 1993 at 60%, but the rate deteriorated to 73% in 1999. The poverty
status of Fianarantsoa also deteriorated rapidly, becoming the poorest province in 1999 with a poverty rate
of 81%. Finally, poverty in Antananarivo moderated over the 1990s and reached 62% in 1999.
Other indicators of poverty were more positive. In particular, the school enrollment rate of children 6 to 14
rose from 51% in 1993 to 68% in 1999, despite the decline in consumption. Living conditions were
generally quite poor but tended to improve over the decade. Access to electricity in urban areas rose and
access to sanitation services rose across the board. Access to clean drinking water rose from 18% in 1993
to 23% in 1999.
The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The Govemment's interim PRSP outlines a
poverty reduction strategy built on three pillars: (a) higher and more sustainable levels of economic growth;
(b) govemance and institutional reform; and (c) improved basic service delivery.
Government Program. The Government plans a number of short-term actions in the context of its
emerging poverty reduction strategy. These actions stress institutional development and good governance to
enhance the environment for investment and promote stable growth and efficient delivery of basic services
to the poor. Thus, key elements of the program are: (i) improving the budget control for public services,
financial monitoring mechanisms and dissemination of information; (ii) strengthening the natural resource
management system, especially in the forestry sector; (iii) strengthening judicial systems; (iv) improving
rural infrastructure; (v) increasing access to education for the poor; (vi) broadening the health system; and
(vii) establishing a poverty monitoring system.
Highly Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Relief and Use of Resources. Madagascar's external debt
would be reduced significantly with the delivery of assistance under the enhanced HIPC Initiative. Debt
service savings would amount to about US$ 59 million per year (1.1 percent of GDP) on average during
the period 2001-2019. Government has provided IDA and IMF staff with a detailed plan for using those
resources in support of its poverty reduction program. The plan allocates the resources to four areas:
- 4 -



education, health, rural roads, and clean water for the poor.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The decentralization process is currently underway: the main framework law for decentralization at the
provincial level was adopted in August 2000, and elections of provincial councils were held in December
2000. The restructuring of responsibilities will provide effective decision-making powers to local officials,
who, in turn, will be fully accountable to the elected provincial councils. The transfer of responsibilities to
the six provinces will take place over the next 18 months, on the basis of bilateral agreements with the
central government. Relations between provinces, municipalities, and departments will be defined by
provincial statutes and administrative tribunals will oversee provincial acts.
The objective of decentralization is to improve the mix, flow, and quality of public services by
decentralizing powers over the services and resources to the beneficiaries. Hence, the Government will
transfer responsibility for delivery of services such as local roads, primary health and eduzation to the
provinces, and to some extent justice and policy. The government recognizes that the success of
decentralization will depend upon its ability to put in place a viable system of intergovernmental fiscal
relations and to strengthen local institutions.
The Project is multi-sectoral in nature as it will complement other Bank and donor interventions in
education, health, rural roads and water supply, etc. The design has taken into account the Government's
strategies in the above sectors and will be implemented in close coordination with the concerned sectoral
ministries. As an example, the Government's Programme National pour l'Education has as one of it's
main objectives to focus on the developmen,t of primary education in rural areas to which the project will
make a significant contribution.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
This is a community-driven development project that employs two ways ('windows') for transferring funds
to poor rural communities and then compares outcomes.
*   The Project transfers funds through the first window to community associations to finance community
sub-projects (investments);
* It transfers funds through the second window to commune governments to finance a sub-project which
consists of the priority investments in their communal development plans.
These two windows will co-exist and will not be two parallel systems: they will be funded from a single
special account, and payments will be made by a single execution agency.
During the mid-term review, the Bank project team will compare the development outcomes flowing from
the transfers through these two windows. The criteria for the comparison will be:
1. Financial management (soundness, transparency);
2. Costs (whether communes build infrastructure that is no more expensive than the cost of similar
infrastructures built by FID or by community associations);
3. Quality (similar quality of construction, as assessed by annual technical audits); and
4. Timeliness (the time the commune spends implementing an activity is not significantly greater than for
similar activities executed by FID or by community associations).
-5 -



If results are within a 10 percent margin of what has been executed in the first window by community
associations, a proposal could be made to reallocate funds (at least 20 percent) from the first window to the
second during the mid-term review.
Building up the capacity of commune government is of great importance given the fluidity with which the
decentralization process is moving and the uncertainty regarding fiscal and administrative decentralization.
At the time of the mid-term review, any increase in the allocation for direct transfers to communes will also
be based, among other criteria, on the level of development of communes and their capacity to manage
funds.
This project has been designed independently of the success and the timing of the decentralization process
to provinces. The communes are in place, have elected officials and are receiving budgetary transfers; the
project will enable communes to strengthen their managerial, financial, and developmental capacity.
-6 -



Indicative               Bank-        % of
Component                      Sector          Costs       % of      linancing    Bank-
..________________________    __WSW .    .  ...  ..S... Total  (US$M)  financing
1. Transfers to Community              Social Funds          80.00        58.4       64.00        58.2
Associations (Community
sub-projects).
Transfers of funds to community
associations to finance community
sub-projects (investments). This
component funds sub-projects chosen
through a participatory rural appraisal
process and executed by community
associations (or by FID in the case of
rural transport infrastructure and
small scale irrigation). IEC as well as
service provision activities (such has
training of teachers) will be integral
parts of these sub-projects.
2. Capacity Building.                   Decentralization      15.00        10.9      12.00        10.9
This activity will train community
associations and communes in project
management, accounting, and
procurement, etc. It will also support
the preparation of participatory
communal development plans.
-7 -



3. Transfers of funds to communes.  Social Funds        25.00        18.2     20.00       18.2
(each annual transfer is a sub-project
that funds their priority investments).
Funds will be transferred directly to
targeted communes to enable them to
implement priorities # I or #2 of their
participatory communal development
programs. Ex-post auditing
mechanisms will be put in place to
monitor fund usage on a semi-annual
basis until the mid-term review. The
direct transfers to communes will start
off as a pilot as it will target 60
communes and 120 communes for the
first and second years of project
implementation respectively (out of the
country's 1380 rural communes). At
the time of the mid-term review,
mechanisms have been built in to assess
the development outcome and
eventually allocate more funds to this
component.
4. Administration.                  Social Funds         17.00       12.4     14.00       12.7
This funds administration and
operating costs, social mobilization and
community participation, ex-post audits
of projects, training of staff,
beneficiary assessments, impact
evaluations, poverty studies,
monitoring and evaluation, and
financial and technical audits.
Total Project Costs                   137.00     100.0    110.00       100.0
Total Financing Required                     137.00      100.0    110 00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Project contributions to decentralization. The Project supports decentralization by financing investments
selected by rural communities through a participatory process and executed by community associations. In
addition, the Project supports decentralization at the commune level. The Project favors rural communities
at the commune level because these are relatively small units -- comprising 5,000 to 12,000 people -- with
potential for widespread participation in small investments. Furthermore, the Central Government has
established the legal status of the communes, held elections of commune governments, and made small
budgetary transfers.
Moreover, the Project will test whether commune governments can successfully execute investments in
- 8-



comparison with community associations. If successful, project resources will be shifted from the
community association window and made available for transfer through the commune government window.
The Project's advantage in promoting decentralization is its success in working with rural communities to
realize small-scale community infrastructure sub-projects. The project execution unit is skilled at the
engineering aspects of the infrastructure, in supervising construction and procurement, in disbursement,
and in training. However, a successful decentralization program requires a much broader effort.
Limits to the Project's contribution to decentralization. The methods applied in the Project are expected
to improve the fiscal viability of sub-projects. Nevertheless, continued operation of the infrastructure will
require the central Government to increase fiscal decentralization and communes to improve tax collection
and management. Further fiscal decentralization requires an assessment of central government transfers to
communes and the design of a credible system for monitoring these transfers.
Contribution of complementary projects. Progress in several areas related to decentralization are
outside the domain and strengths of a social fund. Therefore the Project cannot single-handedly implement
all the institutional, fiscal, and administrative measures needed to reach the long-term vision of a
decentralized state in Madagascar. Instead the success of the Project -- and of decentralization -- requires
the support of complementary activities in the country program. Furthermore, fiscal decentralization can
be achieved more effectively through a macro-economic dialogue focusing on this issue
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The Project benefits Malagasy who inhabit rural areas by:
v   Primarily, increasing their access to basic social and economic services and by improving the quality of
the services;
v   Building the capacity of community associations and commune authorities to plan, implement and
operate development sub-projects;
v   Providing communities and local authorities with the ability to seek additional funding for development
activities in a systematic manner ; and by
*   Increasing productivity and income over the medium and long-term, as economic investments in
infrastructure such as feeder roads improve the profitability of agriculture and as social infrastructure
in health and education improve labor productivity.
-9-



Targeting the poor population. The Project will select communes at the level of the six provinces to
improve coordination with the Rural Development Support Project and to ultimately enhance their joint
impact in the field. Even more importantly, the Project will assure that funds are transferred to poor
communities through the use of poverty indicators.
For transfers to community associations, the Project will transfer funds programmed for each year for use
in the six provinces according to their shares in the rural population. (Note that about 90% of the rural
population fall below the poverty line). Within each province, about the first 10% of communes serviced
will be in the most enclaved quarter of communes --because enclavement is a major cause of severe
poverty. The remaining 90% of communes served will be drawn from the poorest half of communes
according to an index of school enrollment and visits to health clinics.
In order to start transfers to communes quickly, the Project will disburse funds to communes that already
have communal development plan financed by other partners (UJNDP, French Cooperation, European
Union) during the first year of operation.
After the first year of operation, the transfers to communes component will distribute funds across
provinces in proportion to their share in the rural population. Within each Province, communes will be
selected according to their implementation capacity. More specifically, the Project will give preference to
communes which have communal development plans, which have experience in carrying out an investment
specified in the plan, and that, at least, maintain administrative accounts.
To ensure that this targeting is done objectively, the project will finance a study of poverty in the various
communes and seek coherent and complete data across the country.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing Agency. FID will execute the Project because it successfully executed earlier social funds in
Madagascar. Since the FID is one of the key Government instruments supporting its decentralization
policies, it will continue to maintain a regional office in each province. Moreover, the FID is becoming a
more community-based funding instrument and therefore has recruited experienced community mobilizers
in each of its regional offices. The FID may also have to make other staffing changes as the project evolves
such as recruiting experienced IEC and training specialists to ensure it has the appropriate and competent
skills mix. Due to the large activity volume, it is envisaged that FID will also have to sub-contract part of
the work to NGOs and local consulting firms.
The FID is a nonprofit association (une association a but non-lucratifreconnue d'utilit public). It is
governed by a six-person board of Directors including representatives from the Prime Minister's Office, the
donor community, NGOs, and socio-professional organizations. In addition, two directors are elected by
members of the "Association FID." It is envisaged that FID's membership will be enlarged to include
mayors of rural communes. The operation of the FID is regulated by its Articles of Agreement, by-laws,
and Manual of Procedures and by its Framework Agreement (Convention) with the Government.
Program Coordination. The FID Director General will be responsible for coordinating the program in
collaboration with the FID Regional Directors. FID will continue to respect sector policies established by
the Ministries of Education, Health, Agriculture, Energy and Mines, and Civil works. Moreover, the FID
has signed formal agreements (Protocoles d'accord) with the Ministries of Health and Education that
specify the rights and responsibilities of each party. Decentralized ministerial staff will participate with
- 10 -



FID in all desk and field appraisals of sub-projects to minimize redundant expenditures.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. A Financial and Administrative Director in
the FID's central office will oversee its accounts, financial reports, and audit arrangements. (The
requirements for these are defined in the Manual of Procedures). Each of the FID's six regional offices has
an accountant responsible for regional accounts as well as the electronic transmission of regional accounts
to the central level, using the computerized accounting and financial management system. For the transfers
to communes, it is envisaged that semi-annual ex-post audits of commune expenditures will[ take place and
FID is currently working on the modalities, including timing and objectives, and preparing, terms of
reference so that these audits can provide considerable input in the evaluation of the transfers to communes
component.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The MIS system has been further upgraded to take into
account the further decentralization of project activities to the level of communes and communities. The
monitoring and evaluation system (Systeme d'information FID) has become a powerful tool for tracking
FID activities. The system includes modules on: (i) management of beneficiary requests from the time of
receipt of the request until the completion of works; (ii) management of follow-up documents related to
sub-projects described in the manual of procedures; (iii) management of the annual work program; (iv)
management of contracts with local consulting firms, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), and NGOs;
(v) preparation of the monthly reports; (vi) preparation of quarterly reports required for LACI; and (vii)
monitoring performance indicators (outcome as well as impact). FID is in the process of linking
electronically technical data from its MIS to data from its accounting system. Also, beneficiary
assessments will be undertaken every other year, sub-project ex-post evaluations annually, and technical
audits annually.
To complement FID's monitoring and evaluation system, communities will monitor and evaluate their own
sub-projects. FID regional offices have agreed on output and outcome indicators that comamunities or
communes can monitor easily and reliably before, during, and after implementation of a sub-project.
Coor(dination in the Rural Areas with other IDA Financed Projects: the Rural Development Support
Project (RDSP), Rural Transport Project (RTP), & Second Environment Project. T he Bank CDP
and RDSP have agreed on a common design for participatory rural appraisals through which the
population will identify social as well as productive investments and rank them by order of priority in all
communities where they are working. On the targeting issue CDP and RDSP will intervene in the same
geographic areas (based on the above mentioned poverty criteria) to cumulate and strengthen their impact.
The four projects operating in rural areas will furthermore agree on compatible annual work programs.
CDP will continue to finance small scale irrigation sub-projects in areas where the RDSF' project is not in a
position to intervene. Moreover, the CDP will finance rural transport sub-projects in collaboration with
RTP, but the latter will take the lead on ensuring proper operation and financing of the road maintenance
fund for periodic tertiary road maintenance.
In addition, the CDP will make use of the policies and recommendations such as provisionr of basic access,
labor intensive works modalities when they become available. The Groupes de Travail ze Developpement
Rural (GTDR) will participate in the meetings of regional consultative committees of FID that will approve
CDP supported sub-projects (See Annex 11 for detailed coordination modalities).
- 11 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main design issue facing the Govemment and the Bank team is how to further devolve power to use
program funds to communes and communities. In 1995, an earlier generation of this social fund took a
significant step by decentralizing most activities of the executing agency to regional offices.
To gain experience in community implementation, FID III has implemented community management of
funds and procurement in many sub-projects. The executing agency channels these funds directly to the
community associations, which then define, plan, initiate and follow-up on the bidding process and then
supervise construction using a participatory process. FID is moving now towards participatory rural
appraisal mechanisms for sub-project (investment) selection. Under the FID III Supplemental Credit for
the Rehabilitation of the 2000 Cyclone Damages, community associations select and implement all
investments in rehabilitation. Moreover, the community as a whole meets to validate --or reject-- all
rehabilitation investments selected by community associations.
The question is how to devolve implementation to communes in a way that pernits timely delivery of
high-quality investments. The constraints on devolving implementation are the communes' ability to
increase their capacity through training and leaming-by-doing, the need to respect national sector policies,
and Bank requirements for adequate financial management, procurement, and supervision.
The Government and the Bank are still learning how to devolve implementation effectively in the context of
Madagascar. Therefore, the Government and the project team have jointly decided to advance
community-driven development through a mix of approaches: a majority of investments will be
implemented entirely by community associations while some will be implemented through commune
governments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
=   -  0                   :   : 00          t   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Lateost Supervision 
Sector issue                      Project        :        (PSR) Ratings
____________________________  _____________ I: (Bank-financed projects on@}
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Improved health status of the     Second Health Sector Support      S             S
population and quality health services. Project (Cr. 3302-MAG)
Increased agricultural productivity  Rural Development Project
Provision of primary education,   Education Sector Development      S             S
particularly in rural areas.      Project (Cr.3046-MAG)
Delivery of safe water in rural areas   Rural Water Supply Project  U             U
(Cr.3025-MAG)
Improved rural transport infrastructure Rural Transport Project--APL  S           S
3 (Cr. (Cr.3364-MAG).
Reduced poverty and food insecurity in Community Nutrition II Project  S          S
rural areas.                      (Cr.3060-MAG)
- 12 -



Second Irrigation and             S             S
Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
2644-MG)
Other development agencies
Improved rural infrastructure      European Union "Projet
Micro-realisations"
Improved communal roads            NORAD/ILO
Broader access to primary education    French Cooperation--PEM
Broader access to primary health and   UNICEF
education facilities
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Project design incorporates lessons from social funds supported by the Bank and by other agencies in
many regions of the world as well as from the Bank's experiences with two earlier social funds in
Madagascar and with an on-going social fund -- FID III (Implementation Completion Report for the Food
Security and Nutrition Project, Cr.2474-MAG and Implementation Completion Report for Social Fund II
Project Cr. 2778-MG).
The Implementation Completion Report for the Social Fund II concluded that the FID is now a key rural
development project in Madagascar, and is a valuable complement to the health, education, micro-finance,
nutrition, transport, agriculture and other operations. The public and the Government perceive the FID as
the mechanism that has actually provided support for rural communes and communities by financing close
to 1,800 community development sub-projects nationwide. As a result, it is assumed that the Project will
maintain the momentum created by the earlier projects.
Effectiveness of an independent execution unit. This Implementation Completion Report summarizes
several specific lessons learned. Projects designed and managed outside of Government can recruit more
competent staff, and better paid staff get better results; but they cannot be completely isolated from
political interference at the center. This will be addressed in the new Project by further ernpowering
commune governments and communities so that they can take the lead at all stages of the project cycle. The
component that transfers resources to communes will take this step further as communes will become
responsible for project implementation and therefore for countering political interference from central
government structures. Also, FID will make additional investments in community participation
mobilization. This will probably increase FID's operating costs as it strengthens its comtnunity outreach
and training functions.
Respect of strategies of sector ministries. The activities supported by the Project will conform with
strategies of sectoral ministries, not only at the national level but within the decentralized structure.
Continued efforts will be made by FID at the central level as well as regional levels of concerned ministries.
For instance, FID signs agreements with various line ministries regarding its intended activities in the
sector, and in return, the concerned Ministry agrees to provide adequate staffing, training, and support
when necessary. Line Ministries on the whole have been honoring their commitments regarding the
provision for necessary inputs for operation of sub-projects. There have been some instances where FID
schools lacked teachers due to the imposed hiring freeze from the Bank and IMF on civil service
recruitment. Some health facilities also lacked trained nurses, but this is in the process of being corrected
- 13 -



since the MOH has reopened its nurse training program.
FID will also maintain regular contact with ministerial staff at the decentralized level and will not only
involve them in the project approval process but will ask them to participate in desk and field appraisals of
sub-projects as another means to ensure that they remain involved in the long-term.
Training. As a result of FID training programs for contractors and site supervisors, the quality of
sub-projects continued to improve significantly. Additional training requests have been made for
micro-irrigation. Senior technicians and management may also be trained. Courses will be offered for
sociologists and other employees of consulting firms dealing with community development. FID, as part of
the CDD initiative, will expand its training activities by training communal staff and communities in
project management, selection, implementation, accounting, procurement, disbursement, etc.
Benefits of investments in basic infrastructure. Beneficiary assessments in 1999 and 2000 showed that:
(a) construction of schools was associated with better working conditions for teachers, increased enrollment
rates, decreased repetition of grades, and increased parent involvement in the schools; (b) health
investments were associated with increased visits to health posts; (c) small irrigation projects showed a
positive rate of return; and (d) investment in feeder roads was associated with an increase in the revenues
for truckers and farmers selling agricultural products.
General lessons learned from experience around the world (which is not exhaustive) applied to the
Community Development Project are:
Financial Management. Another important lesson learned is to establish incentives for good management
of project funds. Specifically, the executing agency should be subject to: (i) guidelines, independent
financial and technical audits, and a management information system that promotes transparency; (ii)
simple procurement and disbursement procedures; (iii) competitive salaries to enable the recruitment and
retention of qualified staff; (iv) targeting mechanisms for sub-projects; (v) integration of the environmental
dimension into sub-projects; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, including beneficiary
assessments.
A Quality Enhancement Review took place in February 2000 and the following recommendations are
taken into account in the design of this project.
Community mobilization and sustainability. The most important lesson learned from earlier social funds
in Madagascar --and elsewhere is probably that true community participation maximizes the sustainability
of sub-projects. Adequate investments in community mobilization are essential before disbursing funds to
communities, to ensure that communities agree on and choose priority activities, feel a stake and ownership
towards them and maintain them over time. The proposed Project budgets for these mobilization activities.
Regarding maintenance, the new financing agreement between FID and the beneficiary includes a
maintenance clause regarding specific obligations of beneficiaries to maintain sub-projects once they are
completed. However, sustainability in social funds can only be fully achieved if the roles and
responsibilities of the central and local governments are clearly defined and fulfilled in the context of the
project.
Harmonization of Policies. The Project is evolving toward closer cooperation with beneficiaries and with
the agencies and authorities working in the same communities. This will be done by creating a formal
mechanism for community groups and communes for selecting, in a participatory manner, sub-projects to
be requested. This is already taking place through meetings to develop priorities for the community in
- 14 -



general (and not only tied to FID).
Targeting and Resource Allocation. In order to ensure that the poorest communities benefit, the Project
will identify remote areas that have not yet benefited from a sub-project and ensure that promotion efforts
are applied. The Project will also finance some capacity-building activities and provide local consultants to
assist in project design.
Investment Cycle. The Project will continue its efforts to ensure that all sub-projects (investments) are
identified in a participatory manner. To the extent possible, it will ensure that marginalized groups, such as
women and children, are brought into the decision-making process as a means to ensure cven greater
sustainability. It envisages expanding the process to take into account indicators and issues such as
participation, environment, maintenance, and sustainability issues. All contracting will be done by the
beneficiaries with technical assistance from FID, which will assist in the areas of design Df sub-projects, in
cost effective and sustainable technology, and improving management. The beneficiary associations or
communes will monitor maintenance and service delivery performance.
Service Provision. The Project would expand the options of the transfers to community associations
component to finance the direct provision of certain basic social and economic services. The list of options
will be kept as broad as possible so that the Project remains open to innovative types of investments in
services. The team has explored options for infrastructure and service provision activities to be integrated
into one sub-project, and infrastructure development will be complemented by programs such as
teacher/nurse training/retraining, community strategic planning, etc. FID will not be responsible for
funding both components but can require that communities receive information on possible partners. Some
service delivery activities such as training of health workers will be standardized under partnership
agreements with other development organizations.
Procurement. The experience of the implementation of community sub-projects where [DA funds were
transferred directly to beneficiary association bank accounts has been very positive. To the team's
knowledge, there has been no misuse of funds, probably because of all the safeguards that were built into
the procedures manual to ensure complete transparency (FID giving the first check in a public ceremony,
informing all association members of all contract awards, amounts, and expenditures, in addition to the
control which was exercised by FID staff). Similar procedures will be used for piloting the "Transfers of
Funds to Communes" component.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government, and especially the Prime Minister, strongly support the social funds established with the
Bank and have also supported the FID. Furthermore, the Office of the Prime Minister acts as the
supervising Ministry (Ministere de tutelle) of the Project. Moreover, the social funds have been supported
by communities because the communities have been able to control the development process and become
less dependent on the state.
The Govemment has demonstrated its commitment over the years by always paying counterpart funds for
the social funds in a timely manner, which is not the case for all projects in Madagascar. Some further
evidence of commitment is that neither the Prime Minister nor other cabinet members have interfered in the
past four years in the day-to-day management of the FID. From meetings with technical ministries, it is
clear that the social funds are perceived as Malagasy projects, supporting the Government's various
sectoral policies. Also, social funds executed by the FID are perceived by the rural population as projects
helping the community.
- 15-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has acquired a significant amount of knowledge and experience of Social Funds in many
countries. The Bank has produced and refined systems for operating social funds that are expressed in
manuals of procedures, and simplified procurement and disbursement policies. Finally, the Bank is
acquiring experience in decentralization and the modalities for fully empowering the lowest tiers of
Government.
Although several donors in Madagascar contribute to poverty alleviation projects, resources are inadequate
to finance the increasing development needs of the rural populations. The Bank's contribution can be
significant because it is by far the largest donor in the sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Research into social funds has shown that cost-effectiveness analysis is more feasible and reliable than
cost-benefit analysis or calculation of rates of return. That is because it is difficult to measure the social
benefits of social funds. Therefore, the economic evaluation of the Project focuses on a comparison of the
unit costs of rehabilitation and construction by the executing agency with that achieved by other agencies
and by the Government.
Some limited information on the benefits of social funds is nevertheless available from beneficiary
assessments, mid-term reviews, and annual technical audits. Some partial indicators of benefits are drawn
from these sources and used to supplement the cost-effectiveness analysis.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost sharing and cost recovery. The purpose of community cost-sharing is to assure that the community
places a high priority on the sub-project, to establish an incentive to maintain the sub-project, and to
develop the community's capacity to mobilize its own resources to operate and maintain the sub-project.
The community contribution may be in any combination of cash, construction materials, and or labor.
Communities will be expected to contribute at least:
* 15% of the cost of investments (sub-projects) that communities select and implement;
*   10% for rural roads (of which 5% is a contribution to the cost of rehabilitation and 5% is set aside in a
financial institution for road maintenance).
Through supervision, the Bank team will take all the necessary steps to ensure that these contributions are
actually made for all sub-projects. Beneficiary contributions for the on-going project are 20% and primary
indications show a greater degree of ownership from beneficiary communities which will hopefully lead to
better maintenance of sub-projects.
For many sub-projects, part of the maintenance costs will be borne by community associations and the
remainder will be paid from commune budgets.
- 16 -



Furthermore, the Project will finance capacity building activities in accounting and financial management
to assist communal staff in managing their funding allocations, making and forecasting payments, tracking
expenses, and dealing with other financial matters.
Financial Controls and Fiduciary Aspects. The manual of procedures of the FID addresses the fiduciary
aspects of transfers of funds to community associations and communes. This manual covers the
procedures that will have to be followed by community associations and communes for procurement,
accounts and financial reporting on the use of funds. In the case of direct transfers of funds to communes
(which will be piloted until the mid-term review), semi-annual audits of the use of funds will be carried out.
Fiscal Impact:
N/A
3. Technical:
The annual FID technical audits report that the quality of infrastructure has continued to improve.
Therefore, FID now has a track record of building quality infrastructure in most cases al: competitive prices
and more quickly than other projects. (Schools and health posts take four to six months to be completed.)
After each technical audit, the consultant wrote an action plan identifying the weaknesses of each type of
sub-project and defining measures to remedy the weaknesses over the next calendar year.
Whenever possible, FID uses architectural drawings approved by the various line Ministries, and when
these are not available, works with concerned Ministries to develop standard drawings. In addition, the
executing agency is now examining options to use cement blocks, which technically are at par but are less
expensive and involve less deforestation and pollution than traditional bricks. Labor intensive works are
preferred where proven technically and economically efficient.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Program will be executed by FID and commune governments. However, the skills mix of the FID staff
will be re-visited in view of the different approaches that this program will take toward community
development and capacity-building of communes. FID management is in the process of revising its
organizational structure to ensure that competent staff with the appropriate skills mix are in place. Prior to
effectiveness, an IEC specialist, an MIS specialist and a training specialist will be recruited at the central
level as well as an IEC and a training specialist in each of FID's 6 regional offices will also be recruited.
4.2 Project management:
Project management on the whole has been satisfactory. Provided that there is no political interference,
FID staff have the capacity to satisfactorily implement this project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Technical audits have been undertaken every year and as part of those audits contract award procedures
were examined for selected projects. In addition, a procurement audit was undertaken in 1999 where a
sample of about 100 contracts were reviewed in-depth. Following these audits a number of improvements
have been made, which include: (a) the elimination of bracketing for the purpose of bid awards in order for
- 17 -



contracts to be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder without any reference to the concept of "remaining
capacity;" and (b) procedures being followed for the recruitment of consultants are completely in line with
bank guidelines. Consultants and contractors have also been given more time to undertake studies and to
prepare their proposals and bids which is beginning to improve the quality of works.
The procedures to be followed under the proposed project take into account the above recommendations.
They have been tested by FID for sub-projects implemented by communities, and have proven to be the
most economic and efficient method of procurement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A computerized accounting and financial management system based on internationally accepted accounting
principles is operational. This system operates on a decentralized basis with the six (6) regional
directorates. Each regional Directorate maintains separate financial records for all transactions under its
responsibility and sends, on a monthly basis, the financial information to the General Directorate for
consolidation. The Financial and Administrative Director, at the central level, is in charge of overall
financial management aspects, including budgeting, administration of the special account, consolidation
and production of the project's financial statements.
To strengthen the project's financial management system, an agreed action plan by the borrower has been
proposed following the assessment carried out by a Bank/IDA Financial Management Specialist. The main
measures to be taken include: i) updating the current chart of accounts to reflect project activities and
satisfy reporting requirements; ii) updating the manual of procedures section on accounting; iii) the
recruitment of an accounting firm acceptable to IDA to perform the project financial statements audit. Prior
to credit effectiveness the Bank/IDA Financial Management Specialist will evaluate progress made by the
project in the implementation of this action plan.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intennediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The execution agency recently conducted an in-depth consultation with 27 rural community groups.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The manual of procedures was revised as a result of the environmental study of February 1999. The
manual now requires the signature of an annual framework agreement between the FID and the Office
National pour l'Environnement (ONE) for each type of sub-project. This framework agreement defines:
- 18-



(i) the training of FID staff on environment-related matters; (ii) a plan to train and create awareness on
environmental concerns for the agency's partners (community associations, local consulting; firms,
communal authorities, the regional consultative committee of the agency, etc.); (iii) the best procedure to
follow for joint approval of sub-projects; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation systems to fol low-up on the
impact of the proposed measures on each type of investment.
- 19-



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project has been designed to take into account the structure of the country's rural society, and in
particular the structure of rural communities -- where for example notables, such as teachers or doctors,
lead the decision-making process of their communities. The awareness-creation campaigns will ensure that
these notables promote actions that render investments sustainable, through the operation and maintenance
phases.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
This Project is unusually participative in the context of a country where community participation is not
commonplace. The Project was developed in part through the feedback of beneficiaries in annual survey
assessments. In addition, consultations took place with deputies, rural mayors, NGOs, decentralized
ministerial structures, and civil society to solicit their views as how best to address issues in rural areas. A
summary of the consultation process which took place is available from FID.
The Project will support participatory rural appraisals through which the population will identify
sub-projects and rank them in order of priority in a communal development plan. The communities will
also be asked to participate by co-financing and by executing sub-projects proposed in the communal
development plans.
The Project, like the earlier projects, relies on beneficiary assessments for feedback on its impact. Results
of these assessments are used to improve the way the executing agency works with beneficiaries and other
stakeholders and in the way it implements its sub-projects.
6.3 How does the project involve consultationls or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs will execute many Project activities and will receive training. NGOs will be responsible for
promoting community participation, training and technical assistance in areas where they have expertise.
Also, in some cases NGOs will work with the communities in a participatory manner to implement
sub-projects such as wells and other small sub-projects.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project aims to achieve its social development outcome --of reinforcing community institutions--
through its work with community associations and commune governments, and especially through the
participatory process for selecting projects. These aspects of the Project have been described above.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The key measure will be whether the communities have been able to implement top priorities outlined in
their communal development plans.
- 20 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies aly to the project?
P9tlcy                                    Applicabilit
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 NIo
Forestry OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 NIo
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * rNo:
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No_
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
During the environment study that took place two years ago, FID agreed with the Office National pour
l'Environnement (ONE) that all of the agency's sub-projects are category "1" sub-projects vwhich,
according to the new version of the national legislation, will require only a limited impact environmental
study. A provision has been made in FID's manual of procedures that during the appraisal process, a
limited impact environmental study will be undertaken for each sub-project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
To summarize, design features which promote sustainability are:
* Devolving the power to select sub-projects (investments) to communities to assure thar they assign a
high priority to the investments and are thus more likely to operate and maintain them;
* Requiring community contributions to sub-project costs, as a further guarantee that the investments
are community priorities, and to provide an incentive for communities to operate and rnaintain
sub-projects to avoid losing their own contribution;
* Devolving implementation (including financial management, procurement, and mainte:nance) to
community associations and commune governments, to more deeply involve communi 'ies;
* Training of community associations and commune governments in financial management, procurement,
and in the prioritization, selection, operation and maintenance of investments in order to provide them
with the capacity and ability to sustain the sub-projects; and
* Linking the activities of the executing agency to sectoral development strategies and involving
decentralized ministerial structures in desk and field appraisals of individual sub-projects to ensure that
line ministries will honor their agreements to provide staff, equipment, and a recurrent budget for the
sub-project by the time of completion.
Nevertheless, the sustainability of the Project depends on increased fiscal decentralization from the central
government to communes and on the successful execution of complementary investments in rural
development, as explained in the section immediately below.
- 21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The Government does not provide              N          This has not been a problem in the past.
counterpart funds on schedule.                          However, the Bank Team and the executing
agency will work with the Government to ensure
that adequate funds are budgeted.
The central Government does not follow        S         The country team is planning a macro-economic
its policy of fiscal decentralization and              credit that will focus on fiscal and other aspects
therefore the communes are not able to                  of decentralization, and this will help ensure that
finance their share of the cost of                      the communes receive adequate funds from the
construction or rehabilitation of their                 center. In addition, the executing agency is
infrastructure.                                        working with community groups so that, if
necessary, they can assume some responsibilities
for maintaining and operating their investments.
Moreover, community experience in raising
contributions should reinforce their own
capacity to step in to replace any shortfall in
central government funding.
Sub-projects are not coordinated with line   M          The executing agency will obtain assurances
ministries, either directly or through FID's           from concerned Ministries prior to starting
Comites Consultatifs Regionaux.                        works. To ensure adequate staffing by health
workers and teachers, the executing agency will
continue to sign annual agreements with
concerned line ministries to further ensure that
the line ministry will fulfill its part of the
agreement. Also, decentralized ministerial
structures will participate in the desk as well as
field appraisals of sub-project. Finally, the
agency will stop works in the relevant sector if
the problem persists.
An adequate volume of consultants,           M          For the past two years, the executing agency has
contractors, artisans, skilled labor, NGOs,             not been able to further accelerate
and suppliers is not available to work                 implementation of sub-projects due to the
with the project.                                       absence of skilled partners. In the proposed
Project, the agency will continue to conduct
training programs for its partners.
An adequate volume of trainers and of        M          The proposed Project will train trainers while
training facilities is not available to work           the development of training centers falls within
with the project.                                      the scope of the education program and projects.
From Components to Outputs
The Government does not provide              N          See above
counterpart funds on schedule.
- 22 -



The Government intervenes in the             M         This has not been a major impediment to project
day-to-day management of the execution                 execution in the past. The devolution of
agency.                                                increased decision-making powers of use of
Project funds to community associations and to
communes is expected to reduce the scope of
central government intervention in sub-projects.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. The Convention (subsidiary agreement) has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and FID;
2. The Director General, Technical Director, Financial and Administrative Director, Communications
Director, training specialist, IEC specialist, and monitoring and evaluation specialist cf the central
office, as well as the Provincial Director, IEC specialist, and training specialist of each regional office
have been duly recruited under terms, conditions, and terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
3. FID has appointed the financial auditors under terms, conditions, and terms of reference acceptable to
the Association.
4. The Procedures Manual has been duly approved by the Association and adopted by Fll); and
5. A project account has been duly opened, and an initial amount of the equivalent of $500,000 deposited
therein.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and ofL satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 23 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
X 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
/kSIleyh  Aurray                Ail Van Adams                      Hafez Ghanem
am  Leader                t )/ctor Manager             /f ~ Country Manager
- 24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
Key Petforimance
Hierarchy of Objectives                Indicators             Monitoring & Evaluation          Ciltical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:                Sector/ country reports:        (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce poverty in Madagascar   The Government and the Bank  Household consumption survey   *The Giovernment continues to
by improving the productivity    agreed in the Poverty Reduction conducted by the national    support poverty alleviation
and competitiveness of the     Strategy Paper that the objective statistical institute (INSTAT).  effo ts in the areas of rural
economy, in rural areas where    is to reduce the poverty rate by                             development, nutrition, basic
90% of the poverty ridden      half over 15 years (from a                                     health and education.
population lives, through      current rate of about 71%).                                   *Macro-economic reforms and
investments in human capital.                                                                 decentralization proceed
acco.rding to schedule.
- 25 -



Ke Pfomanc.
HIarh o6f ObJ jtv                     ln V00 dicat : s        MonFitog & Evauatoni   CrWf:             A:mpo
Project Development           Outcome I Impact               Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Project Development Objective: *A minimum of 80% utilization  *Annual technical audit prepared *The central Government
Improved use of and satisfaction    of designed capacity for:  by independent consultants:  transfers increased funds to
with project-supported social and  -Enrollment in primary    (i) social assessment           communes to finance their share
economic services within poor       schools                   -satisfaction, criticisms,     of the operation and
rural communities.                -Visits to health centers    and suggestions of            maintenance of
-Users of water supply      beneficiaries;                project-supported infrastructure.
sources.                  -the extent to which         *Technical ministries provide
-Hectares irrigated and     communities                   additional inputs (such as
cultivated                 participated, and their      teachers, health workers,
-Vehicles using a road       interaction with local       equipment, textbooks and
per week.                  government;                   medicines) to ensure the
*At least 70% of beneficiaries  -an evaluation of the         satisfactory operation of the
report they are satisfied with  distribution of benefits     completed infrastructure.
services from project-supported    from the project, and   *The Rural Development
infrastructure.                in particular whether         Support Project increases
any social groups were       production and incomes in areas
excluded; and                targeted by the Community
(ii) evaluation of            Development Project.
the engineering             *The Transport Sector Reform
quiality of the project; and a    and Rehabilitation Project
(iii) review of               improves access to markets of
procurement.                 the areas targeted by the
oQuarterly and annual progress    Community Development
reports prepared by the       Project.
executing agency.            *IDA-supported projects in
nutrition, health and education
contribute effectively to
improvement of basic social
services.
*Other donors, and in particular
the European Community and
Agencefran,aise de
developpement, execute planned
investments in transport,
agriculture, and the social
sectors.
- 26 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators            Monitoring & Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
Output from each              Output Indicators:             Project reports:              (frorn Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Transfer of funds to       oAt least 450 sub-projects    *Annual financial audit reports  *Thc Government provides
community associations (for     (individual investments) per  submitted by independent       counterpart funds on schedule.
community sub-projects):        year.                         auditors.                    *Thccentral Government follows
Improved access to social and  *Communities co-finance at least oAnnual technical audits by  its policy of fiscal
economic services in poor rural    15% of sub-projects in     indep. auditors including a:   decentralization so that the
communities.                   materials, labor, or money (10%                               communes are able to finance
for roads of which 5% is    (i)  Social Assessment that     the r share of the cost of
deposited in a financial          focuses on participation   construction or rehabilitation of
institution for maintenance)      of the population in       the .r infrastructure.
sub-projects and in      *Sub-projects are co-ordinated
decisions of commune      with line ministries, directly
governments;              and through the Comites
(ii) Engineering Quality       Consultatifs Regionaux of the
Evaluation; and a         execution agency and the
(iii) Procurement review.     Groupes de Travail de
* Supervision mission reports by  D&eloppenient Rural (GTDR).
Bank staff.                 oAn adequate volume of
* Mid-term and completion       corsultants, contractors,
reports prepared by the      artisans, skilled labor, NGOs,
execution agency and Bank    ancl suppliers are available to
staff.                       work, with the project.
* Quarterly and annual progress oAn adequate volume of trainers
reports prepared by the      anci of training facilities are
executing agency.            available to work with the
project.
2. Capacity Building:         *A minimum of 70% of
Build the capacity of community   community associations and
associations and commune        communes successfully
governments, in consultation with  implement priority #I or #2 in
their constituents, to choose,  their Communal Development
implement, and maintain        Plan;
community investments.        oAt least 150 communes per year
develop commune development
plans through a participative
procedure and then receive
annual grants for executing
investments identified in the
plan.
*A minimum 80% of project
supported infrastructures are
maintained and operating
adequately one year after
completion.
3. Transfer of funds to       *Communes co-finance at least
communes: Financing of an       15% of annual costs of
annual sub-project (investments   investments in materials, labor,
identified by communities in their  or money (10% for roads of
community development plan).    which 5% is deposited in a
Improved access to social and  financial institution for
economic services within       maintenance).
participating communes.
- 27 -



4. Project Administration:    *Financial audit without
Assistance to communities and   reserves.
communes in the appraisal of    *Annual technical audit
sub-projects and efficient      completed.
administration of the Project.  *Project administration costs
held to 10% of total cost.
* Evaluation of the performance
of transfers through the
community association and
commune govemnment windows.
- 28 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Obiectv                 ladiqato              Montorn. & Evaluation           Critical Assumptions
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each       Project reports:             (fronn Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                   Outputs)
Total project cost: US$ 137   *Annual work programs and     *The Government provides funds
million (All costs include     budgets prepared by FID.      to communes and counterpart
(1) Transfer of funds to      contingencies).               *Quarterly and annual progress   funds to the Project on
community associations        (I) Total: US$ 80 million      reports prepared by FID.      schzdule.
(community sub-projects                                     * Disbursement reports (Loan  *The Government does not
--individual investments).                                   Administration Change         intervene in the day-to-day
Investments that community                                   Initiative - LACI) prepared by    management of the execution
associations select and implement                            FID and Bank.                 agency.
with support from the                                       *Financial audit reports prepared
implementing agency.                                         by independent auditors.
*Supervision reports by Bank
missions.
(2) Capacity Building         (2) US$ 15 million
(3) Transfer of funds to     (3) US$ 25 million
communes (Sub-project is
defined as the annual transfer to a
commune to finance investments
identified in their communal
development plan).
(4) Project management,      (4) US$ 17 million
monitoring and evaluation.
- 29 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
This is a Community Driven Development Project which transfers funds to communities through two
windows: (a) transfers to community associations and (b) transfers to communes. These two windows will
coexist and will not be two parallel systems. This approach will allow the Project to compare the outcomes
from these alternative ways of decentralizing resources to communities.
Transition Mechanisms between the two Windows (Mid-term Review). The project team and the
Government will compare development outcomes from financing through these alternative windows during
the mid-term review. The review will compare the:
1. Soundness of financial management of project funds;
2. Cost of similar investments;
3. Quality of similar investments, and the
4. Implementation period for similar investments.
If outcomes from financing through communes are within a 10 percent margin of those through community
associations, a proposal could be made to reallocate funds (at least 20 percent) from the community
association to the commune window during the mid-term review.
At the time of the mid-term review, any increase in the allocation for direct transfers to communes will also
be based on the level of development of commune's execution capacity, and in particular their capacity to
manage funds. Capacity will be measured by communes' ability to prepare a communal development plan
and their capacity to implement investments.
Financial Controls and Fiduciary Aspects. The manual of procedures of the FID addresses the fiduciary
aspects of transfers of funds to community associations and communes. This manual explains the
procedures that will have to be followed by community associations and communes for procurement,
accounts and financial reporting on the use of funds. In the case of direct transfers of funds to communes,
semi-annual audits of the use of funds will be carried out.
Long-term Vision. The long-term vision is that the transfer of funds to communes will be successful so
that communes will play an enhanced role in rural development. Though its role would change, the FID
could become a permanent instrument of targeted transfers of matching funds at the community and
commune levels for multi-purpose planning and implementation of activities.
The project has been designed independently of the success and the timing of the decentralization process to
provinces. The communes are in place, have elected officials and are receiving budgetary transfers; the
team should work with them and given them an opportunity to strengthen their managerial, financial, and
development capacity.
- 30 -



By Component:
Project Component I - US$80.00 million
TRANSFERS OF FUNDS TO COMMUNITY ASSOCIATIONS (Community sub-projects
--individual investments)
Under this component, the Project finances small-scale sub-projects that communities generate and that
provide social and economic services in poor rural areas.
The executing agency, the Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID), starts a round of
sub-projects by selecting communes for investment that are poor. The FID does not select: or approve
investments, instead the component gives substance to the principle of participation by devolving powers
over selection to communities through a participatory rural appraisal process. The Fund then finances the
investments selected by the community so long as it is within the project cost envelope and appears on the
list of qualifying types of projects. The investments are then executed by community associations (except
for feeder roads and complex irrigation systems that may be executed by FID). The Projec.t strengthens the
ability of community associations to assume these powers through training of their members.
Selection of Communes. The Project will select communes at the level of the six provinces to improve
coordination with the Rural Development Support Project and to ultimately enhance their joint impact in
the field. Even more importantly, the Project will ensure that funds are transferred to poor communities
through the use of poverty indicators.
The Project will transfer funds programmed for each year for use in the six provinces according to their
shares in the rural population. (Note that about 90% of the rural population falls below the poverty line).
Within each Province, about the first 10% of communes serviced will be in the most enclaved quarter of
communes --because enclavement is a major cause of severe poverty. The remaining 90% of communes
served will be drawn from the poorest half of communes according to an index of school enrollment and
visits to health clinics.
Participation. Once a commune has been selected, the population selects specific investments through a
structured process of community mobilization and consultation. The process starts with meetings to inform
the community about the project, to exchange information about their social and economic services, and
then to encourage them to articulate views of the obstacles to their development. After delining the
obstacles, community members propose alternative solutions, discuss their feasibility, and identify
alternative sources of financing. The mobilization process concludes with agreement on a Communal
Development Plan that lists investments to resolve development problems by order of importance. The
project then finances the highest priority project that qualifies under its rules.
A necessary further step is for communities to demonstrate that they truly want the investment by
contributing 15 percent of its costs in materials, labor, and money. (The amount is 10% for roads, of which
5% is for rehabilitation and 5% is deposited in a financial institution for maintenance). Experience with
earlier projects in Madagascar and elsewhere shows that community co-financing is an effective way to
improve maintenance and thus sustainability.
- 31 -



Roles of Commune, Regional, and Central Governments. The mayors of the commune, who are elected,
will be invited to participate in public consultations and to participate in the development of the Communal
Development Plan.
Moreover, regional representatives of the Ministries of Education and Health must approve any proposed
education and health infrastructure before investment by the Project. All education and health
infrastructure must meet the design and technical norms established by the central Ministries of Health and
Education.
Qualifying investments. To qualify for Project financing, investments must cost less than $50,000
($100,000 for rural roads). For the transfers to community associations, the sub-project must appear on a
positive list --which is now being expanded. The cost limit keeps the project focused on small-scale
community development and assures that investments will not exceed the community's capacity for
co-financing or for maintenance. The positive list covers social infrastructure such as primary and
secondary schools, health centers I and II, and small scale rural waters supply. It also covers economic
infrastructure such as short rural roads, bridges, and culverts, small-scale irrigation of rice paddy, and
public market places. The list has been expanded to cover basic social services such as training of
teachers or health workers and IEC activities on various health programs.
Execution by Community Associations. One of the most important ways that community associations,
such as parent-teacher associations, assume ownership of the investments and that they increase their
technical capacity is by taking over responsibility for realization of their investment. Community
associations decide on the architectural and engineering preparation of the sub-project and then make the
formal application for the sub-project. Community associations will appoint a small cellulle which will be
responsible for management and technical follow-up of investments. They may engage a consultant to help
them with technical aspects of the investment, and this may also be financed under the Project.
Procurement by Community Associations. This is an innovation compared to earlier projects in
Madagascar. The last social fund (the FID III) piloted transfer of responsibility for contracting of
rehabilitation and construction works with 27 community associations with some success. The associations
were able to obtain reasonable prices and build good quality works (see para. E 4.3 of main text).
Training. The Project will support training of members of community associations in community
participation and mobilization methods and in contracting, monitoring of construction, and maintenance.
The Project will also ensure that, depending on the type of project, teachers, health workers, plumbers, road
maintenance staff are trained as part of the investment cycle. To the extent possible, the FID will ensure
that health workers and teachers, are directed to donor financed projects specializing in those types of
activities.
Once investments are approved, a financing agreement is signed between FID's Regional Director and the
beneficiary association. This agreement stipulates that FID will finance the investment as a whole (studies,
architectural designs, works, site supervision, service delivery activities, etc.). In this context, FID agrees
to finance 85% of the total cost of these activities.
Monitoring and Maintenance by Community Associations. In collaboration with the site supervisors,
community associations will be responsible for close monitoring of construction or other types of activities.
These associations will also participate in partial and final completion inspections for works. In addition,
- 32 -



once the investment will be completed (depending on the type), they could be requested to provide data on
input and outcome indicators to the regional offices as part of the overall monitoring of their investments.
Community associations (in collaboration with other decentralized entities) will be responsible for
maintenance of their investments.
IEC. As part of the investment implementation process, FID will carry out IEC activities on issues
relevant to the community depending on the type of investment. FID will contract services from other
specialized partners involved in IEC in the rural areas to carry out these campaigns. Due to FID's proven
track record in reaching a large number of rural and remote population groups, FID at the time is one of the
most appropriate mechanisms to create awareness at the level of the communities.
Project Component 2 - US$15.00 million
CAPACITY BUILDING ACTIVITIES
The execution capacity of many commune government is weak, judging from reports from zonsulting
companies that have trained commune leaders and from field visits. Some elected officials have difficulty
forming budgets or managing accounts. For this reason the Project will focus considerable human energy
and financial resources on supporting the transfers of funds to communes through training of the elected
officials and personnel of commune governments. This effort is an unavoidable step toward making direct
financing of communes a viable means of improving basic services to the population.
The first part of the training is in community participation, mobilization, and in drawing up a communal
development plan. Communes also receive information on the legal status and powers of commune under
Malagasy law. The most intensive part of the training relates to execution of investments. The component
supports training of commune officials and personnel in basic accounting and fiscal budgeting at the local
level and in procurement, implementation monitoring, and maintenance.
A Malagasy consulting company is now developing a detailed training program for the communes.
A detailed study is envisaged to get data on each commune in terms of accessibility by road, how many
schools and health posts in the commune, water/sanitation, etc. This objective data will serve as a basis for
targeting communes based on objective poverty criteria.
Project Component 3 - US$ 25.00 million
TRANSFERS OF FUNDS TO COMMUNES
Under this component, transfers of funds will be made to communes to finance activities irn their communal
development plans. Furthermore, the component transfers full powers over project execution to commune
governments. The FID does not approve investments before execution and conducts only ex-post
inspections.
Communes covered. The component will fund disbursements to a cumulative total of 60 communes in
the first year, 120 in the second year, 180 in the third year, and 240 in the fourth year, and :300 in the fifth
year. By the end of the Project, the pilot would therefore serve 300 of the 1400 communes in Madagascar.
Selection of communes. In order to start transfers to communes quickly, the Project will disburse funds
to communes that already have communal development plan financed by other partners (tNDP, French
Cooperation, European Union) during the first year of operation.
- 33 -



After the first year of operation, the component will distribute funds across provinces in proportion to their
share in the rural population. Within each Province, communes will be selected according to their
implementation capacity. More specifically, the Project will give preference to communes which have
communal development plans, experience in carrying out an investment specified in the plan, and that, at
least, maintain administrative accounts.
Participatory methods. Under this component, investments will also be identified through a structured
consultation of communities and in agreement with the Mayor of the commune. Once again, investments
will be set forth in a Communal Development Plan and the highest priority items would be financed by the
commune government. The choice of investments that could be financed is large since there will be no
positive list, but only a negative list of types of investments that could not be supported from the credit.
The commune government and (plus) community contribution to the investment is 15 percent, as in
component 1.
Amount of financing. Communes will receive $5 per capita per year throughout the project period. The
fact that communes will know in advance that they would be receiving funding through this component is
likely to change their decision making process, offering them the possibility to engage in medium-term
planning and a true prioritization process.
Financial and operational methods. Funds will be transferred annually to a separate bank account that
each participating commune will be asked to open in a commercial bank. No transfers of funds will take
place unless commune staff have been trained in book-keeping and financial management. Communes will
be encouraged to entrust the execution of investments or activities to existing community associations such
as parent teacher associations in the case of a school. Procurement procedures by the commune will be
identical to the procedures applied by the communities in the first component of the Project.
Ex-post audits. The FID conducts an ex-post financial audit of investment expenditures on a semi-annual
basis until the mid-term review. The main purposes are to avoid financial mismanagement and corruption,
to assure that funds are used for priority investments identified in the Communal Development Plan, and
finally to confirm that all expenses are eligible for reimbursement and that the commune governments have
respected the procedures manual. In the event that there is mismanagement of funds, any further transfers
would automatically be stopped and efforts would be made to try to recover the money misused.
Procedures. A manual of procedures for the component has been prepared. The manual details the rules
and conditions of direct financing to communes. The objectives of the manual are to: (i) assure better
community participation, (ii) promote transparency and responsibility, (iii) prevent fraud, and (iv) avoid
expenditures on activities which benefit only elite and worsen social exclusion.
Project Component 4 - US$17.00 million
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION
This component will finance the operation of the FID entity which will be responsible for overseeing the
implementation of all activities which will be financed under this credit.
The Project will finance beneficiary assessments, impact studies, social and community mobilization
activities, training of FID staff, monitoring and evaluation and financial and technical audits.
- 34 -



The emphasis on execution by community associations and by commune governments will change the role
of the execution agency --the FID. The mix of personnel will change as the FID moves from employment
of engineers and financial analysts for inspection, vetting and control of projects to new responsibilities.
For example, the FID will have extensive responsibilities for contracting with consultants For training of
community associations and of commune officials and personnel, and also of the consulting companies that
will mobilize communities and help communities develop their Communal Development Plan.
The FID assumes substantial new responsibilities with the advent of the direct financing o F communes
component. For example, it will have to develop capacity for annual ex-post financial auclits of commune
budgets and also for analytical evaluation of commune budgets.
- 35 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Transfers to community associations (community sub-projects)  70.20       0.00         70.20
Capacity Building Activities                               13.10          0.00         13.10
Transfers to communes                                      20.50          0.00         20.50
FID Operation and Management                               10.90          2.80         13.70
Total Baseline Cost                                       114.70          2.80        117.50
Physical Contingencies                                     0.90          0.20          1.10
Price Contingencies                                       18.20          0.20         18.40
Total Project Costs             133.80          3.20        137.00
Total Financing Required              133.80          3.20        137.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost 8y Category                 US Smillion    US $million    US $milfion
Works and Goods for investments                             100.40           0.00       100.40
Consultancy Services for investments                          4.60           0.00         4.60
Technical Assistance and Training                            22.90           0.90        23.80
Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture, and Materials                 0.00          2.30          2.30
Operating Costs                                               5.90           0.00         5.90
Total Project Costs    133.80           3.20        137.00
Total Financing Required     133.80           3.20        137.00
Estimated taxes and duties are $ 14 million that can be identified at appraisal.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 14 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes. is 123 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharinig ratio is 89.43% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 36 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
Approach to Economic Analysis. The information necessary to evaluate the full social costs and
benefits of the proposed social fund do not exist. Moreover they are difficult, for practical purposes
impossible, to collect. Therefore the analysis draws indicators of the benefits of the proposed Project from
information on the performance of the past social fund. The analysis of cost recovery is based on estimates
of the unit costs of the main investment of the past fund: construction of schools and healt:h centers.
Indicators of Benefits. Indicators collected by independent consultants strongly suggest that there were
significant benefits to sub-projects supported by the earlier Social Fund Projects (Annex 4 - Table 1). Ten
out of eleven indicators tend to confirm that there are benefits and most suggest that the benefits are
relatively large.
Three independent consulting firrns, working in separate regions, visited at total of about 60 sub-projects in
1997 to inspect the infrastructure, to gather data on the impact of sub-projects, and to heEa the views of the
population and of their local leaders with regard to their sub-projects. The indicators are comparisons of
baseline conditions, before construction, with those after the completion and start of operation of the
sub-projects. Unfortunately, for several sub-projects the date of the baseline is ambiguous. Moreover the
sample size for each indicator is relatively small because the consultants did not collect information on each
indicator when visiting the relevant sub-projects. These limits on the quality of the data are standard in
evaluation of social funds. The resulting potential for error suggests that the indicators should be
interpreted as broad orders of magnitude rather than precise figures.
With regard to schools, the surveys indicate a nearly one third increase in enrollment rates and of a decline
in quit rates. Only the examination success rate failed to respond, and that by an amount that is probably
insignificantly different from zero. For health centers, the surveys show that patient visits per day more
than tripled. For water & sanitation, the surveys indicate a significant time savings, a doubling of water
consumption, and a reduction in fatal diarrhea cases. Unfortunately, the lack of comparable statistics
reduced the sample size. For rural roads, the consultants estimated an economic rate of return of 90
percent. Finally, micro-irrigation sub-projects improved the productivity (yield) of the land by 30 percent
in response; the estimated internal rate of return over 5 years appears relatively high.
Indicators of Costs. The overall cost of new construction funded by the earlier social fiund was not
significantly different than other projects when differences in definition of costs and measurement error are
taken into account. The costs of rehabilitation are systematically below those of other donors, but
differences in the extent of rehabilitation interfere with the comparison of costs.
The cost of new construction of schools under the earlier social fund is below that of the; European
Community and above that of the CRESED II, the Bank's education project (Annex 4 - T able 2). The
estimate of the social fund's costs includes supervision by engineering consultants while the estimates for
most other projects do not include this cost. This explains part of the difference in costs with the CRESED
II. Most of the difference in costs is explained by the architectural design of schools built by the CRESED
II, which use more local materials and less concrete. The CRESED II schools are cheaper and easier to
repair but are less resistant to cyclones and shorter-lived than the social fund schools.
- 37 -



The cost of new construction of health centers is somewhat above that of the European Community and of
the Ministry of Health's planning assumption. Most or all of this difference is probably explained by the
inclusion of supervision costs in the estimates for the social fund.
Annex 4 - Table I
Indicators of Benefits & Estimates Rates of Return
(from I seneficiary assesmwents by indegendent consulting firms of orolects completed by the FID in 1997)
Expected  Sample size
Direction of    (# of sub-
Indicator    Chanoe       Droiects)
Schools
Enrollment (% point rate of change)                                       32.2       Yes+            13
Quit rate (change in % point rate)                                        -8.3        Yes             7
Examination success rate (change in % point rate)                         -1.9         No            10
Health Centers
Patient visits per day (0/% point rate of change)                        222.3       Yes+             7
Water A Sanitation
Travel time to nearest potable water source (reduction in minutes)       -40.0       Yes+             2
Water consumption (% pt. rate of change of liters per household per day)  100:0       Yes             I
Fatal diarrhea cases (% point rate of change)                            -14.2        Yes             I
Rural Roads
Economic Rate of Return (% point rate)                                    90.8       Yes+             7
Micro-Irrigation
Hectares Irrigated (% point change)                                       68.6         Yes            4
Yield per Hectare (% point change)                                        30.2         Yes            5
Intemal Rate of Retum (% point rate)                                      42.1       Yes+             4
- 38 -



Annex 4 - Table 2
Primary Schools - Cost per Square Meter (in current FMg)
New construction
European                 Cooperation Aide et Action
Province             FID a/       Union bl CRESED 11 cl  francaise dt              el
1996-99       1998-99          1999          2000          1998
Actual        Actual        Actual      Estimate        Actual
Antananarivo        878,453      1,105,800      437,196             --            --
Anstiranana       1,033,900      1,330,000      528,239             --            --
Fianarantsoa        682,375      1,221,700      587,115             --            --
Mahajanga         1,141,326      1,075,500      882,563             --            --
Toamasina           682,748             --      595,619             --            --
Toliara           1.091.999     1.014.800       653.675             --      794.212
Average
(unwejghtedg        918.467      1.149.560      614.068        86,.000       794-21
Rehabilitation
European                 Cooperation Aide et Action
Province             FID sl       Union vi CRESED II c/  francaise d/              et
1996-99       1998-99          1999          2000          2000
Actual        Actual  Not Available  Not Available   Not available
Antananarivo        409,361       530,300             --            --            --
Anstiranana         869,969             --           --             --            --
Fianarantsoa              --      702,900             --            --            --
Mahajanga           612,913             --            --            --            --
Toamasina           415,802             --           --             --
Toliara             327.487             --           --             --            --
Average
(unwefrhted)        527.106       6166600 
al Includes beneficiarv contribution and design and supervision: does not include benches and desks.
b/ Includes beneficiary contribution and benches and desks.
cI Schools are built by the regional education ministry offices (CISCO) with support from CRESAN staff.
Costs do not include design and supervision or benches and desks. The engineering design of
CRESAN schools sometimes use considerably less concrete (and hence cement).
dl Assumption based on 50.000 FF per primary school classroom; does not include design and supervision
or benches and desks.
e/ Includes management, design, and supervision. Does not include benches and desks.
- 39 -



Annex 4 - Table 3
Health Centers - Cost per Square Meter (in current FMY)
New consgrMaion
Cooperation
European francaise-AFD        Ministry of
Province                FID a/       Union U/               di       Health e/    CRESAN f/
1996-99        1998-99            2000            2000            1998
No new
Actual         Actual          Actual   Plannine norm     construction
Antananarivo        1,167,272       1,026,650               --             --
Antsiranana         1,335,747         850,000               --             --              --
Fianarantsoa        1,091,206       1,309,300               --             --              --
Mahajanga           1,267,792               --             --              --              --
Toamasina             969,123         926,800               --             --              --
Toliara               899.431      1I183 900                --             --              --
Average
(unweighted)        1121.762       1.059.330         853.571       1.041.667
Rehabilitation
European    Cooperation       Ministry of
Province                FID a/       Union b/       francaise        Health e/    CRESAN fV
1996-99        1998-99            2000            2000            1998
Actual         Actual   Not Available    Not available         Actual
Antananarivo                --        516,800               --             --         804,870
Anstiranana                 --        316,000               --             --       1,049,184
Fianarantsoa                --      1,309,300               --             --         794,818
Mahajanga                   --             --              --              --              --
Toamnasina                  --             --              --              --       1,337,158
Toliara               539U133         882-800                                       I _095  8
Average
tunweiahted)          539.133         756.225         642.857   Not available 1a016.2
a/ Includes design and supervision and beneficiarv contribution: does not include equipment.
b/ Does not include equipment
c/ Price reflects police of rehabilitation 'a minima' and does not include design. supervision or euCiDment.
d/ There is no beneficiarv contribution. The cost does not include design and supervision bv the Cooperation francaise.
The cost is an averaae of the Centre de Sant! I and 11.
c/ Price used in planning costs of construction of a Centre de Sante 1: Does not include costs of design. suDervision.
latrines, and armored door, furniture. or medical equipment.
V Includes onlv the phvsical buildine. does not include equipment. desing and supervision: there are no
beneficiary contributions.
Summary of benefits and costs:
See above.
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
-40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5  I Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Sub-project costs          25.0       25.0       28.0       28.0       25.1        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2       1.1        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          26.2       26.2       29.2       29.2       26.2        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              26.2       26.2       29.2       29.2       26.2        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    20         20         20         25         25        0.0        0.0
Government                   I          I          1          2          2        0.0        0.0
Communities                  4          4          4          4          4        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      25          25         25         31        _31       0.0        0.0
-41 -



.  Year 1    Y Year2   Year3                Year            6 Year5  Y  I Yer 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          20.0       20.0      25.0       25.0       27.5       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             1.2       1.2        1.2        1.2       1.1        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         21.2       21.2      26.2       26.2       28.6       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             21.2       21.2      26.2       26.2       28.6       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  16.7      16.9       21.5       21.3      23.6       0.0        0.0
Government                0.7        0.5        0.9        0.9       1.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Communities               3.8        3.8        3.8        4.0       4.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    21.2       21.2      26.2       26.2       28.6       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-42 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Madagascar was carried out in 1995, which
found that in general national procedures for the procurement of works, goods and services are acceptable
with the following exceptions: (i) the use of a double envelope system of bid opening for works and goods;
and (ii) the use of the point system for bid evaluation for works. Bank standard documents are widely used
and have helped in ensuring that these two unacceptable features do not affect IDA-financed procurement.
So far the findings of the CPAR remain valid. No special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be
specified in the Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Madagascar's
procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions of local
regulations.
Use of Bank Guidelines for procurement by FID, and use of Simplified Procedures for Sub-Projects
as specified in FID's Manual of Procedures
Procurement by FID for its own use of goods financed by IDA will be carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement for IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999). National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would
be carried out in accordance with Madagascar's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA
provided that all bids will be in one envelope which will be opened in public. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for Goods, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Forms will be used for both ICB and NCB.
Consultant services contracts financed by IDA will be procured by FID in accordance wittli the Bank
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, (January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposals as developed by the
Bank will be used for the selection of consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for short term
assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months. The government was briefed during negotiations about
the features of the new consultants Guidelines, in particular with respect to advertisement, bid opening and
the various steps of IDA reviews.
For all sub-projects under the "community sub-projects" and "direct transfers to communes" components.
procurement of civil works, goods and services financed by IDA will be done in accordance with FID's
Manual of Procedures approved by the Government and IDA. The objectives of that manual, which is
based on the AFR Simplified Procurement Procedures for Small Projects, are to promote transparency and
responsibility, and to prevent fraud.
Manual of Procedures
Most of the IDA-financed procurement under the project (US$ 84.0 million, out of a total IDA credit of
US$  110.00 million) relates to the sub-projects financed by FID under the "community sub-projects" and
"direct transfers to communes" windows, and will be done in accordance with FID's Manual of Procedures
acceptable to IDA. FID's financing for the "community sub-projects" will not exceed US$ 50,000
equivalent per sub-project (US$ 100,000 equivalent in the case of rural roads). They will be implemented
-43 -



by the beneficiaries themselves, with the exception of rural roads and small irrigation perimeters that will
be implemented by FID under a delegated contract management approach. The implementation may
involve a mixture of force account by the beneficiaries and small civil works contracts with entrepreneurs,
or even artisans (tdcherons). In any event, the value of individual civil works contracts will not exceed
US$ 60,000 equivalent (US$ 120,000 equivalent in the case of rural roads), and the value of consultancy
contracts will generally not exceed US$ 5,000 equivalent (possibly up to US$ 10,000 equivalent in the case
of rural roads) and, in most cases, will be in the US$ 2,000-US$ 3,000 range. For the "direct transfers to
communes" activity, the amounts involved will also be relatively small. For example, a commune with a
population of about 4,000 inhabitants (which may be considered as "representative" or average for the rural
communes that the activity will finance) will receive a sub-grant of US$ 20,000 equivalent a year, which
may be used to finance several activities and, therefore, contracts.
The AFR Guidelines for Simplified Procurement for Small Projects and standard bidding documents have
been used for the preparation of FID's Manual of Procedures, which will be followed by beneficiaries and
FID for procurement for those sub-projects. This Manual is a living document, subject to change based on
recommendations of technical, financial, and procurement audits, but most importantly on overall project
achievements. The legal documents for the project (in particular Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement) state
that all procurement for the "community sub-projects" and "direct transfers to communes" windows shall
be done in accordance with FID's Manual of Procedures. The approval by IDA and the adoption by FID of
the Manual of Procedures is a condition of effectiveness of the credit; any amendment to such manual will
have to be also acceptable to IDA.
The Manual of Procedures is divided into 5 volumes, as follows:
3 Volume I - Selection of communes and community sub-projects, environmental evaluation, accounting
and financial management of FID, Monitoring and Evaluation, Financial and Technical Audits;
i Volume 2 - Implementation of community sub-projects (excluding rural roads and small-scale
irrigation) by the beneficiaries themselves;
* Volume 3 - Implementation by FID under delegated contract management of rural roads and
small-scale irrigation community sub-projects;
i Volume 4 - Implementation modalities and procedures for the "Direct Transfers to Communes"
Component; and
3 Volume 5 - Capacity building (training of communes, community associations, local contractors, and
consultants).
According to those manuals, under the "community sub-proiects" window, procurement of all civil works
by FID (for rural roads and small-scale irrigation) will be done following competitive bidding by Malagasy
firmns regardless of the estimated value of the contracts. The procurement of works by communities will
also be done in many cases by competitive bidding, which will in any event be mandatory for any contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more. In the case of works done by the communities under
force account with the help of a "tacheron," the direct contracting of that "tacheron" will be acceptable
(provided of course that the value of that contract does not exceed $10,000 equivalent); but, the choice of
that "tacheron' by the "project cell" of the beneficiary association will have to be approved by a general
meeting of all members of that beneficiary association. The procurement of goods by communities will be
based on a minimum of three price quotations. For the recru'tment of consultants or consulting firms,
communities will be encouraged to follow the procedures followed by FID in accordance with Bank
guidelines (short list, letter of invitation, evaluation of proposals, etc.), but direct contracting will be
acceptable, subject again to the approval of a general meeting of all members of the association of
beneficiaries and to FID's non-objection to the choice of the consultant (based on qualifications and
- 44 -



experience) and to the terms and conditions of the contract.
Under the "Direct Transfers to Communes" window, the same procedures will be used by the communes
who will be responsible for all procurement (recruitment of consultants, purchases of goods, and
contracting for civil works).
Advertising
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in the United Nations Development Business
(UNDB) in March 2001 to advertise for any ICB for goods (above US$ 100,000 equivalent) to be procured
by FID. It will be updated annually for any outstanding procurement. The GPN mentions that the
procurement for civil works, goods, and consulting services for sub-projects will be done ibr the most part
by the beneficiaries themselves and that FID, in its quarterly newsletter, will publish the lis,t of all
upcoming small contracts for goods and works. Specific procurement notices for goods and works will be
advertised in the national press of wide distribution and intemationally for ICB contracts.
Procurement Plan
The procurement plan for the first year of project implementation, both for sub-projects and for goods and
services procured by FID for its own use, will be prepared around the time of credit effectiveness, based
on beneficiary requests and FID's annual work program. For each subsequent year, the procurement plan
will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for review and approval at the same time as FID's annual work
program, that is around November of each year for the following year. These plans will include relevant
information on goods, works, and consulting services under the project, as well as the timing of each
milestone in the procurement process. In collaboration with the beneficiaries, FID will monitor the
procurement scheduling. These plans will be reviewed by IDA supervision missions.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of FID
FID will be the executing agency for this project. The FID entity has been in place since 1993; it was
created for the Food Security and Nutrition Project (Cr. 2474-MAG). Since then it has been operating for
the Second Social Fund Project (Cr.2778-MAG) and the on-going Third Social Fund preject (Cr.
31 80-MAG) . It is fully experienced in procurement, in particular procedures applicable to small contracts
for communal infrastructure.
Technical audits took place in 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999 and selected sub-projects were thoroughly
reviewed, which included the review of contract award procedures. No major discrepancies were
discovered with the provisions of FID's Manual of Procedures. In addition, a procurement: audit took place
about one year ago and the recommendations for improvement were formally transmittect to the borrower
and some corrective actions have already been taken.
In parallel, the Bank and the Govemment discussed and agreed to improve certain procurement modalities
such as contract award to the lowest acceptable bidder (regardless of the difference with the "reference
price"), and without having to take into account as part of the bid award process the remaining capacity of
the bidder. In addition, pre-qualification modalities have also been simplified - there is now only one
category for pre-qualified contractors for buildings, and two categories (depending on the tumover of the
firms) for the other types of sub-projects.
Provisions have been made under the credit to finance a technical audit annually, which will review in detail
-45 -



contract award mechanisms for about 10 percent of contracts.
Procurement Training for Communities and Communes
In order to ensure that proper procurement procedures are being followed, FID will continue to finance and
supervise the training of community associations on procurement, and will start systematic procurement
training programs for communes as part of the capacity building component. No transfers of funds under
the "direct transfers to communes" component will be made, unless the commune in question has benefited
from formal training in procurement.
Procurement Monitoring
A procurement monitoring system is already in place, which among other things ensures that the aggregate
values for works and goods are not exceeded. In the case where the aggregate value for goods or works is
exceeded, IDA's formal non-objection will be requested.
Procurement Methods for Goods and Works (see Table A)
A. Civil works and goods contracts for all infrastructure sub-projects (for an aggregate amount of US$
100.4 million, of which US$ 80.3 million would be financed by the IDA credit) involve the construction,
repair, and rehabilitation of community infrastructure including primary schools, health posts, community
water supply, feeder roads, rural markets, etc. and the purchase of school desks and other types of furniture
such as for health facilities, etc. They will be procured in accordance with FID's Manual of Procedures (see
above section on the Manual of Procedures).
B. Procurement of zoods by FID for its own use. Contracts for goods such as vehicles, office equipment
and furniture for FID national and regional offices costing more than $100,000 per contract would be
purchased through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts for goods available locally
which cost more than $30,000 but less than or equal to $100,000 per contract, for an aggregate amount of
$200,000, will be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small quantities of office supplies
and consumable materials which are normally available off the shelf at economical prices and cannot be
grouped in packages of $30,000 would be procured through national shopping based on price quotations
obtained from three reliable suppliers provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed $100,000.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA financed contracts above the threshold of $75,000 for works and goods will be subject to IDA's prior
review. All other goods and works contracts will be subject to post review. However, a technical audit will
be performed during each year of project implementation. About 10 percent of the on-going or completed
sub-projects (selection will be on a random basis) will be subject to an in-depth review as part of the annual
technical audit. Furthermore, as in the case for the on-going project, a procurement audit will take place
every couple of years. These reviews will look into detail into compliance with the procurement procedures
utilized to ensure conformity with FID's Manual of Procedures.
-46 -



Procurement of Consultancy Services, Technical Assistance and Training
A. Consulting Services for Sub-Projects. These types of services, for an aggregate amount of US$ 4.6
million of which $3.6 million would be financed by the IDA credit, will be for the design and supervision of
infrastructure sub-projects. They will be procured in accordance with FID's Manual of Procedures (see
above).
B. Consulting Services for FID. These types of services for an aggregate amount of $24.2 million, of
which US$ 19.5 million would be financed by the IDA credit, would be for: (a) consultant and technical
assistance for capacity building, mainly for communes; and (b) FID staff, technical and financial audits,
and M&E activities. They will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the selection and
employment of consultants.
Consultant selection would be addressed through competition among short-listed firms in which the
selection will be based on quality and cost based selection (QCBS). For contracts with firmns estimated to
cost less than $50,000 per contract, the short list may consist exclusively of national consultants. For the
financial audits, which will involve firms, the least cost selection will be used. Some small contracts for
overseas training, not exceeding $15,000 per contract, may be procured on a single-source basis up to an
aggregate amount of $300,000 during the life of the project. Consultants' services consisting of technical
assistance and training and support to FID which would involve individuals, including recruitment of local
FID staff, will be selected on criteria based on qualifications, experience, and competence for their
assignment.
Prior Review for Consultant Services, Technical Assistance and Training
Prior IDA review for consultants' services will be required for: (a) all contracts for individuals costing more
than $30,000 per contract; (b) all contracts (for any amount) for FID's high level staff including the general
director and directors at the national level, and the regional directors; (c) all contracts (ary amount) for the
financial and technical audits; (d) all contracts with finns costing more than $50,000 per contract; and (e)
all contracts for training overseas. For contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 each, the techrtical evaluation
report for the recruitment of consulting finns will be subject to prior review before the financial evaluation.
All other contracts will be subject to post review. The technical and procurement audits will look at
selected random contracts for the recruitment of consultants.
Financial Management
Accounting and financial reporting
A computerized accounting and financial management system based on internationally accepted accounting
principles has been established. The accounting system operates on a decentralized basis with six (6)
regional directorates. Each regional Directorate maintains separate financial records for all transactions
under its responsibility and sends, on a monthly basis, the balance sheet to the General Directorate for
consolidation. The Director of Finance, at the central level, is in charge of the overall aspect of the project
financial management including budgeting, administration of the special account, conso Lidation and
production of the project financial statements. To strengthen the project financial management system, an
agreed action plan by the borrower has been proposed following the assessment carried out by a Bank/IDA
Financial Management Specialist. The main measures to be taken include: i) the update of the current chart
of account to reflect project activities and to satisfy reporting requirements; ii) the update of the accounting
-47 -



manual of procedures in place; iii) the recruitment of an accounting firm acceptable to IDA to perform the
project financial statements audit. Before credit effectiveness the Bank/IDA Financial Management
Specialist will evaluate progress made by the project in the implementation of this action plan.
Project Management Report
The financial management system in place meet basic minimum Bank requirements but cannot produce yet
quarterly project management reports (PMRs) under the FMIN (ex-LACI). A consulting firm has been
recruited by the project to assure the design and the implementation of a Management Information System
that can produce PMRs for managing and monitoring efficiently project activities. As indicated in the
agreed action plan by the borrower, the new system will be functional on December 2001. During the first
year of the project implementation, the project will be required to submit, in addition to its basic financial
statements, the following quarterly reports: i) Sources and Uses of Funds; ii) Procurement Management
Report (Reports 3-A, 3-B, 3-C and 3-D shown in the "Project Financial Management Manual" - Exposure
Draft/ February 1999). The assessment to be carried out at the end of this interim period will determine
whether the project is able to produce PMRs; in this case, additional PMRs reports will be added. It should
be noted that the project does not intend to move to PMR-based disbursement but will use the existing
disbursement procedures.
Disbursement
Method of Disbursement
It is envisaged that based upon the outcome of the financial management assessment, disbursements will be
transaction-based (traditional mode) as they are currently done under the on-going project (Cr. 3180-MAG)
in accordance with procedures outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C indicates the disbursement schedule, the amounts (in US$) for each expenditure category and the
disbursement percentage applicable to each. The disbursement percentages lhave been calculated on a
tax-inclusive basis such that, when applied to invoices denominated in local currency, the percentage not
financed by the Bank is sufficient to cover Government counterpart contributions and eliminate any Bank
financing of local taxes and duties.
The credit closing date is forecast for June 30, 2007, about six months after the end of the disbursement
period. Category 4 (operating expenses for FID) includes expenditures for local contractual support staff
salaries, employment related benefits, travel expenditures and other allowances for travel related to the
Project, rental and maintenance of equipment, vehicle maintenance and repair, vehicle insurance, office
rental and maintenance, materials and supplies, utilities and communications expenses, banking charges,
and insurance for FID goods and equipment related to the project. No high level salaries will be financed
under operating costs.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
A simplified format will continue to be used for SOEs in which expenditures are summarized by category.
A sample of the simplified SOE form is contained in the project implementation manual. The
documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at FID's National and Regional Offices for
review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for annual audit). SOEs will be used for payments of
-48 -



contracts of less than US$ 75,000 for goods and works, and consultant contracts of less tean US$ 50,000
and US$ 30,000 for firms and individuals, respectively. SOEs will likewise be utilized for all training and
operating costs.
Special account
The special account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and receive an advance of US$
9,000,000 covering IDA's share of 4 months of estimated expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an amount of
$4,500,000 will be advanced to the special account with the balance of the initial deposit ($4,500,000)
being advanced once SDR 10,000,000 have been disbursed, or earlier if IDA so agrees.
Flow of Funds
The "special account 90-day advance procedure" especially designed for decentralized agencies will be used
to facilitate the operation of FID's regional offices and to ensure prompt payment of contractors and
suppliers. This procedure is described in "Bank-Financed Projects with Community Participation: A
Manual for Designing Procurement and Disbursement Mechanisms" is currently utilized under the on-going
project. Under this procedure, FID will advance funds sums covering no more that 90 days estimated
expenditures (in local currency) to regional FID accounts based upon submission of satisfactory, budgeted
work plans. Regional FID offices will submit quarterly expenditure reports indicating sources and uses of
funds and justifying the use of funds, and accompanied by reconciled bank statements. ED will then
aggregate this data, prepare reconciliation statement for the main special account, and prepare
replenishment applications accompanied by the bank statement for the main special account.
Audit
Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will annually audit the accounts of the project iri accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards. They will provide an opinion on the financial statements, the use of
the special account and the statement of expenditures. They will communicate also in the section "
Management letter" of the audit report significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal control
and propose relevant recommendations for its improvement. The audit report will be subrnitted to IDA no
later than six months after the end of the project's fiscal year. The project will select the auditors prior to
effectiveness; this recruitment should be conducted through a competitive and transparent process in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Regarding the "Direct Transfers to Communes" component, semi-annual audits of the use of funds by
communes will be done, at least until the mid-term review. The first semi-annual audit will begin 6 months
after credit effectiveness. Terms of reference for such audits will be finalized prior to credit effectiveness.
-49 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Expenditure Category             iCB            NN*B.F :           1 2                     Total Cost
1. Grants for Sub-Projects           0.00            0.00          105.00          0.00          105.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (84.00)         (0.00)        (84.00)
2. Consultant Services               0.00            0.00          23.80           0.00           23.80
(Technical Assistance and           (0.00)          (0.00)         (19.20)        (0.00)         (19.20)
Training)
3. Equipment, Vehicles,              2.00            0.20           0.10           0.00           2.30
Furniture, and materials            (1.80)          (0.20)         (0.10)          (0.00)        (2.10)
4. Operating Costs                   0.00            0.00           5.90           0.00           5.90
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.70)          (0.00)         (4.70)
Total                             2.00            0.20          134.80          0.00          137.00
(1.80)         (0.20)        (108.00)         (0.00)        (110.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
The bulk of the amounts in the "other" column is for all civil works, goods, and services to be procured
for sub-projects in accordance with FID's manual of procedures (see section on the Manual of
Procedures). It also includes national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staffof the
project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to managing the project.
- 50 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Con-slWtPt                                 Selection   Method
E     *aendtre  QCBS      QBS       SFB       LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost'
A. Firms           10.80     0.20      0.00      0.20      0.00      2.30      0.00     13.50
(9.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (1.80)    (0.00)    (11.20)
B. Individuals     11.70     0.30      0.00      0.10      0.50      2.30      0.00     14.90
(9.10)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0.10)    (0.40)    (1.80)    (0.00)   (11.70)
Total  22.50     0.50      0.00      0.30      0.50      4.60      0.00      28.40
.  (18.10)   (0.50)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.40)    (3.60)    (0.00)    (22.90)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Procurement of consulting services for sub-projects in accordance with the Manual of
Procedures, and in line with commercial practices.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Creclit.
- 51 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
ContracValue  I: u)9 f; ; : : :: S; ;f; :e:  :X;; :ContrActs Subject to
IThre:    V   shld  :    Procurement           PHor Review
Expen4re Category                                   Jo(Uo$$tosnds)   Me4to  (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >10              Competitive Bidding    >$75,000/$1.00 million
Sub-Projects                                    (Manual of procedures)
<10             Manual of Procedures
2. Goods
a. Sub-Projects                 >10              Competitive bidding     >$75,000/$0 million
(Manual of Procedures)
<10               Price Quotations             None
(Manual of Procedures)
b. Other Goods
>100                    ICB            All contracts for ICB/$1.80
million
>30 and <100               NCB               >$75,000/$200,000
<30                     NS                 Ex-post Review
3. ServicesConsultants
and Training
a. Firms and individuals        <10              Manual of Procedures           None
for sub-projects
b. Firms                        >50                  QCBS, LCS          >$50,000/$0.45 million
c. Individuals                  >30                  QCBS, CQ           >$30,000/$0.15 million
d. FID high level staff         All                  Individual            All/$0.50 million
e. Technical audits             All                    QCBS                AIU$0.30 million
f. Financial Audits             All                     LCS                AIll$0.30 million
9. Overseas Training            All                 Single Source          AlIU$0.30 million
4. Operating Costs              N/A                     N/A                     N/A
5. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $4.9 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
- 52 -



procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
The procurement specialist will be a key member of each supervision missions. In addition, there is a
procurement specialist in the resident mission that handles procurement issues on a day to day basis and as
they come up. A technical audit will take place every year where a sample of sub-projects will be
reviewed, to verify the conformity of procurement procedures including contract awards. A, procurement
audit (as has been done in the past) will take place at the time of the mid-term review where about 10
percent of the contracts will be audited. The Bank as in the past will suggest that corrective action be taken
if contract award procedures are not in conformity with the manual of procedures and the legal documents
(DCA and Project Agreement).
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment. The overall procurement risk assessment is considered average,
mainly due to the large volume of contracts. A procurement capacity risk assessment was carried out
about a year ago. In addition, a procurement audit took place about 8 months ago and the
recommendations for improvement were formally transmitted to the borrower and corrective actions have
been taken. In parallel, the Bank and the Government discussed and agreed to improve certain procurement
modalities such as contract award to the lowest acceptable bidder (regardless of the difference with the
"reference price"), and without having to take into account as part of the bid award process the remaining
capacity of the bidder. In addition, as mentioned above, pre-qualification modalities have also been
simplified.
Provisions have been made under the credit to finance a technical audit annually which will review in detail
contract award mechanisms for about 10 percent of contracts. It should be said that with any type of
project where not all contracts are subject to prior review, there is a risk that certain contracts will not be
awarded in conformity with the procedures described in FID's Manual of Procedures.
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 53 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Ependture Caory              Amount in U$millon             Financing Peretage
Grants for Sub-Projects                     78.00                90% of amount of sub-grants
Technical Assistance, Audits and             17.00                 100% of foreign expenses
Training                                                            85% of local expenses
Equipment, Vehicles, Furniture and           1.50                 100% of foreign expenses
Materials                                                           80% of local expenses
Operating costs                              4.00                           90%
Unallocated                                  9.50 -
Total Project Costs                         110.00                      :=  
Total                                       110.00
-54 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
Pro     _       __t Sctiedule                       Plann_d                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)               10/15/99                      10/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                       01/15/2001                    02/05/2001
Negotiations                                     01/29/2001                     02/21/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/01/2001
Prepared by:
Eileen Murray
Preparation assistance:
Japan Grant for project preparation. Consultants financed under the grant included Eddy Biynens
(Engineering); Marc Van Imschoot (Training); Paul Geli (Operations Manuals); Catherine Reed
(Beneficiary Assessments).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Eileen Murray                      Task Team Leader
Menahem Prywes                     Senior Economist
Bienvenu Rajaonson                 Environmental Specialist
Susanne Holste                     Rural Roads
Sylvain Rambeloson                 Procurement
Gervais Rakotoarimanana            Financial Management Specialist
Ivar Serejeski                     Agriculture/Rural Development
Raj Soopramanien                   Lawyer
David Freese                       Disbursement Officer
Michele Rajaobelina                Operations Assistant
Muhtar Thiam                       Rural Roads
Luc Lecuit                         MIS Specialist
Ziva Razafintsalama                Rural Development Specialist
Steen Jorgenson                    Quality Enhancement
Julia Van Domelen                  Quality Enhancement
Lynne Sherbume-Benz                Quality Enhancement
- 55 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operating Manuals for Community-driven Development (2 windows):
1. Transfers to community associations (to fund their community based sub-projects/investments)
2. Transfers to communes (to fund annual sub-projects)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Detailed coordination mechanisms with the Rural Sector Development Project, the Rural Transport Sector
Project, and the Second Environment Program
C. Other
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Beneficiary Assessments 1998, 1999, 2000
Detailed Training Program for Communes
Technical Audits 1998, 1999, 2000
*Including electronic files
- 56 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA        SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P001563       1995 AG EXTENSION PROJECT                              000       2520                             000       042        359       000
P040019       1997 CAPACITY BUILDING                                 000       1383                             000       210        205       000
P001559       1998 EDUCATION SECTOR DEV                              000       65s00                            0.00      8 98      27 31      000
P001533       1996 ENERGYSECTORDEVELOPMENTPROJECT                    000       4600                             000       905       173        0 00
P001537       1997 ENVIRON II                                         000      3000                             000       989       -046       000
P052186       1999 MICRO FINANCE                                     000       1640                             000       t277       226       000
P056487       1998 MININGPROJECT                                     000        500                             00D       296        210       -011
P001568       1998 NUTRrrIONII                                       000       2760                             000      :2201       534       000
P001555       1997 PRIV SECT DEV & C B                                0 00     23 80                            0 00      764        8 55     -2 18
P001564       1998 RURAL WATER SEC PILO                               000      1730                             000       1394      1196       000
P062628       2000 Regional Development                               0 00      460                             0 00      445        1 92      0 00
P057378       1999 SACII                                            00       12010                             000      80178      6361       00o
P064305       1999 SOCIALFUNDIII                                      000      3310                             000      2144       -516       000
P051741       2000 Second Health Sector Support Project              0 00      40 00                            0 00     36 88       0 00      0 00
P052208       2000 Transport Sector Reform and Rehabilitat           0 00      65 00                            0 00     63 35       0 00      0 o0
P048697       1997 URBANINFRASTRUCTURE                               000       3500                             000      2:369      1662       000
Total:       0 00      587 93                           0 00      38035     157 07      -2 29
- 57 -



MADAGASCAR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1990/91             AEF FIARO                       0.00     0.19    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.19    0.00    0.00
1997                AEF GHM                         0.75     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.75    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995                AEF Karibotel                   0.26     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.26     0.00    0.00     0.00
1992/93/95          AQUALMA                         1.29     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.29    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991                BNI                             0.00     2.61    0.00     0.00     0.00    2.61     0.00    0.00
2000                BOA-M                           0.00     0.82     0.51     0.00    0.00     0.82    0.00     0.00
1983/89             Nossi-Be                        0.20     0.14     0.00    0.00     0.20     0.14    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          2.50     3.76    0.51     0.00     2.50    3.76      0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi      Partic
1999               AEF Bora Hotel                    345.03      0.00      0.00       0.00
1999               AEF Manerinerina                  149.65      0.00      0.00       0.00
2000               AEF Somaqua                       700.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1998               AEF Tami                          978.04      0.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       2172.72      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MADAGASCAR: Community Development Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-                 -
Madagascar      Africa   Income       Development diamond
11999
Population. mid-vear (millions)                         15.1       642      2.417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas methool. US$)                     250        500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billons)                          3.7       321       988
Average annual growth. 1993-99
Population (%)                                          3.0        2.6        1.9
Labor force (x)                                          3.0       2.6        2.3       p                               Gross
Moat recent                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per         prMary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1993-99                                  capita                         enrollment
Poverty ({ of population below national Povertv line)    70
Urban population (% of total populalon)                  29         34        31
Life expectancy at birth (Years)                         58         50        60
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                 92         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               40         32        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source ( ofpoopulation)         29         43        64
Illiteracy (% of population age IS-)                     34         39        39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    92         78        96                   Madagascar
Male                                                   92         85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                 91         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                                       2.5       3.7        3.6
GrossdomesticinvestmentUGDP                      .      13.4      12.5       12.3                     Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP                       18.4      21 4       24.8
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                               9.8       46         4.6
Gross national savinqs/GDP                       .      10.4       5 0        6.9
Current account balancelGDP                             -3.0      -7.5       -5.8      Domestic                   
Interest pavments/GDP                             .     4.1        1.2        1.1        Si                         Investment
Total debt/GDP                                   .    138 2      118 3      122 6                         1
Total debt servicelexoorts                      ..    44.4        18 7       16,3
Present value of debtiGDP                        .        .       87.5
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        .      364.8
Indebtedner.s
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual qrowth)
GDP                                   2.3      1.4      39         4 7        5.7                   Madagasci,r
GNP oer capita                       -1.5     -0.9       15        2.4        2.7                   Low-income group
Exports of aoods and services        -4.2      39       21        20,9        8,7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and JDP (%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                   29.8      32.9      30 6       30.0
Industrv                                      17.2      14.8      13.6       13.8
Manufacturinq                                  ..    12.9                                            - .              .
Services                                      53.1     52.3       55 8       56.2     -s   \9      55    95   97   95   99
Private consumption                              .     81.4       87 9       876      .15 6
General qovernment consumption                  ..      8.8        7.5        7.9                _G0         *    GDP
Imports of qoods and services                   ..    22 0        29.3       32.7
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (-)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    22        1.5       21         34      20T
Industrv                                      -0.6      1.6        53         4.3
Manufacturing                                 2.5      0.2         .          ..    10
Services                                      -0.5       17        5.1        5.5
Private consumption                           -1.2       19        34           3.8           -     5    9s   97   98   99
General government consumption                 0.5      0.2        2.1        4.2                NV
Gross domestic investment                     13.5     -0.1        9.0        3S    .105
Imports of aoods and services                 -8.5      4.2        1.6       16.5                  Exports    -1e  Imports
Gross national product                         1.6       1.9       4.6        5.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared with its income-group averaoe. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 59 -



Additional
Annex 11
Coordination with other IDA Supported Projects focusing on Rural Development
MADAGASCAR: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
The task team leaders of the IDA-supported projects that directly influence rural development have agreed
on a plan for coordination and for joint action as a way of achieving better results. The projects are the
1.    Community Development Project (CDP);
2.     Rural Development Support Project (RDSP)
3.     Rural Transport Sector Project (RSTP); and the
4.     Second Environment Project (SEP);
The agreement focuses on sharing methods for maximizing community participation and on joint
geographical targeting of efforts to maximize impacts.
Participation. The CDP and RDSP will support participatory rural appraisals through which the
population will identify investments and rank them by order of priority in a communal development plan.
To work effectively together, the project execution units will agree on a common design for participatory
rural appraisals. The design should provide a basis for financing by other IDA-supported projects as well
as other donors and this should eventually accelerate execution of the portfolio and also reduce costs.
To realize these advantages the CDP and the RDSP will conduct participatory rural appraisal in all
communes where they invest. To accelerate execution on the ground, the CDP and RDSP will start by
using participatory rural appraisals that have already been prepared with support from the UNDP, GTZ,
and the Swiss Inter-cooperation -as long as the quality of the appraisals is adequate.
Targeting. The CDP and the RDSP will intervene in common geographic areas to cumulate and
strengthen their development impact. To this end the project execution units will agree on consistent
criteria for choosing communes. For example, an investment in a productive agricultural sub-project (by
the RDSP) and in a rural road (by the RSTP) would work to increase local incomes. This would in tum
increase the financial capacity of the community to maintain a CDP-supported health center or a school.
Work programs. To achieve these results the CDP, RDSP, RTP, and SEP will prepare and agree on
compatible annual work programs. The work programs will plan investments, to the extent reasonable, in
the same geographic areas. The projects will intervene in different ways: for example, the CDP will
intervene at the commune level while the PSDR will intervene, in most cases, at the village level.
Experience with FID suggests that communities will chose mainly social infrastructure, while the RDSP
will concentrate on investments in productive agricultural activities.
The areas where the CDP and the PDSR will invest will be determined by criteria such as physical
isolation, access to social infrastructure, and other measures of poverty. To accelerate the launch of the
RDSP, it will invest, during the first year of execution, in areas covered by the FID III --because these
communes are relatively accessible. Moreover, the RDSP will invest in all communes where the CDP in
piloting transfers to communes. The only area of potential overlap is irrigation.
-60 -



Irrigation. To resolve this, the task team leaders agreed that the PDSR will invest in small-scale irrigation
projects (of less than 200 hectares) and will progressively take over this class of investment from the FID.
However the PDSR will not be able to respond quickly to all qualifying requests for small-scale irrigation
because it does not yet have a functioning execution unit. Therefore the CDP will respond to demands
from communities for investments in small-scale irrigation sub-projects (of less than 100 hectares) during a
transition period.
Transport. The CDP will finance the rehabilitation of commune roads requested by communities in their
action plans. With the agreement of the Government, the RSTP will allocate additional funds for the
rehabilitation of commune roads, if there are sufficient funds available for their maintenanc-. in the road
maintenance fund. In the long term it seems that commune government will play a more important role in
maintenance of their roads.
Groupes de travail regional (GTDR). The Government has established GTDR to coordination projects
with investment in agriculture. Therefore the GTDR will participate in the meetings of the FID regional
consultative committees that approve CDP supported sub-projects.
-61 -



Additional
Annex 12
Background Information on Decentralization
MADAGASCAR: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
The objective of decentralization is to improve the mix, flow and quality of services to the public. The
reasoning is that decentralization will empower the population to choose beneficial investments in service
delivery and would then motivate beneficiaries to support the investments through contributions,
management of funds, procurement, and maintenance. Moreover it seems that beneficiaries are more likely
to exercise vigilance against misuse of resources that benefit them directly and that they control. A further
justification is confidence that the experience of responsible exercise of power, together with sustained
training efforts, will slowly and durably build decentralized capacity to manage investments.
So there is widespread consensus in Madagascar on the principle of decentralization of significantly greater
power over the use of government and donor funds. Madagascar has made substantial progress and this
process is continuing and still incomplete.
Communes.
The most substantive progress was the adoption of a law establishing the powers and obligations of the
nearly 1,400 communes, which are the most basic unit of local government. The central government then
held elections for commune mayors and councils. The Mayors administer the commune, execute decisions
of the council, and prepare the budget. The councils meets twice a year to make budgetary and other
decisions and may also meet in special session. Moreover, an agent in each commune represents the central
government.
The commune governments are now necessary partners in any rural or urban development project. Most
donors engaged in local development work with the communes and several provide training to improve their
capacity. Nevertheless, decisions on allocation of government resources, and in particular of foreign
assistance, are made at the central level.
In consequence, the lack of funds severely limits the capacity of the communes to execute programs and
development projects. Rural communes cannot cover the cost of operating and maintaining their
infrastructure as they receive a basic transfer of only about US$ 5,000 per year from the central
government. In the major urban communes, the growth of population and economic activity has not been
matched by an increase in transfers. Furthermore, inflation has sharply cut the purchasing power of the
transfer to urban communes: between 1990 and 1996, nominal transfers rose by 66% while inflation was
232%.
The other major constraint on rural communes is relatively weak capacity to execute development projects.
Apparently, some officials do not fully understand their roles under Malagasy legislation and many have no
training in budgeting, taxation, procurement, or maintenance. Any assistance must include sustained
training, although repeated visits by trainers are time-consuming and expensive in poorer communes where
it takes as much as two to three days to reach the more enclaved communes.
Provinces.
The national constitution establishes six autonomous provinces and an organic law defines their powers.
-62 -



The provinces will have powers over provincial administration, urban and rural police, public market
places, and provincial public services. Each provincial government will be run by a governor who serves
as chief executive and is selected by an elected provincial council. The central govermment is represented
by a delegate-general named by the central council of ministers.
The central govemment took a significant step toward creating the provinces by holding elections of the
provincial councilors on December 3, 2000. The next step is for the provincial councilors to name the
provincial governors.
Key questions regarding the devolution of fumds to provinces have not yet been resolved. In principle, the
provincial budget will be financed through a mix of provincial taxes, decentralized central government
funds, provincial borrowing, and income on provincial assets. The constitution provides that a conference
of provinces and the central government will meet within a year of establishment of the provincial
institutions to decide on the division of human, material, and financial resources.
Regional groups.
In addition to provincial and communal governments, several regional groups play a role in coordinating
and selecting donor-financed investments. Agricultural projects consult with the 20 Groupes de travail
regionaux (GTDR). Each GTDR consists of representatives of diverse government authorities, projects,
NGOs and farmers' organizations. The FID consults with its own provincial group (CCRs) and the
environment project is also associated with a separate consultative group (AGERAS). An IDA-financed
project (the PGDIR) supports the decentralization of decisions on investments in infrastructure to three
pilot regional development committees (CRD) that represent extended urban-rural regions and deal with
planning across sectors. There is widespread agreement on the need for regional coordination; the issue is
how to simplify this process.
-63 -






IBRD 20035R1
A5~~~~~~~~~~~~A
,Antsiranana
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                  ; 
Paved roads
Routes g-udronees
AllIXothr, oa.ds                                                            N$-6
Routes "c#ess,blos err foute .0o,so                                        NOSA b Ann Ilobe
,,, Narerrsranest rods                                                       Hell O
RouteS seisOnirireS                                                                    rr
_  _Roikrood,                                                                               ZA,ibmonl, i
Cho-m' do fer
Rv,ers
Ftemuwt et ,,rdreu                                                                              ANTSIRANAN
4  Asrpooor/'s                                                                      !                :                ,Sa~omiov
Noti oral copitcl                                                                            B   lIana\
fo rstny  ;mn coPts o-lo                                                        1+t o-                     - Anda
CAhf-(,e;. do Foritasr                                                 A*ol h-                                          Antosoho
i_ Fortony bovndaries
-   ,mrto oes foritorry                                                                        r
4B.foridriro
_  -r0otio$nal boundaries                                                                    *                Moroontsotra
srntes  eorstros                                            ,..          r          .              Mohojonga   .  )
16  <*   - 3irs,n1  r  erge  t     ;         Mordritsoro '
fo . ~~~~~~~~~soal;1o)                                                                                                   - MorovnorzyWpMopkmI Oenzr
16-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       0                   ,,rp.kony
/            ~~Aebaroboent  -3       ~                  \.       (
.M       A   H   A   J   A  N   G  A            0t-    >\2i/ 
-2ssarpy                                            ,-r.n-        ,Soasra-r-loon1goZ       NOS-
fesalompy            ~~Maevotonond        /     4saraotonana                            BOP;r Ny F  y^AA
I              'TOAMvrtr.I'NA       0
/                                         ,3        t j S -  Andil- nenal               '    +4 Arbodifootr.      ,,
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adiomn                                       r                    '   tooOOriO ArofOlnOn.n!
-4-
/4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Mortrrs4            M-oroferrobos            --.i(.                         >      'Ambaiondraz  t
'     Ankosobf Anjarobe                          Toomosinia
'  A,tsoIovo .         ANTANANARIV                      an j
ks 4   4  MT,ir-o-r,dido m   o       ibi 4-hb                       nayndr
M,ond-woao                  Fanatsiho       Arbaibton;qlo
)  0  ~         Antsiroe    M.     I                toharoro 
MorodondMovao    RMarbondy __  _\                            otrodro
.4--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21
Anbaloft,r,ar h..onra  ATmbositra           VNsyVorik
M. n j 04~_/                                  >                           onanan ry
f  ,   ~ >t  Fianaogntsoa  4'
Monm.be. X\Tanando-o          <"'      ero                         Arbolasoo         
0AnkoBe -h'  FIANARNTSOA.
I   OAnkozoobo  r        IhosL  y'onker
1 X.'                   /         _ ,   4                              tvohibrf Vobipotho  SKILOMTEItiS 0  SO  100    150    200
('-'                ~>                      g-QSo              Frh9n                 MuSES O           50          500
Sakoraha\      I                       V   r               an
Toticiryi  - -- \                                   \k        e O~     pVan0aindrarno-
_Bttio          k         ,S d              Mi/- ATse.            {*                     ANZANIA
24J                                                                                                                 24/- K          -    -OO
) s~0graerlo                j       /; '-/.//                     w    <':j   /
4-  !                                 Manontenisa                      , AMBC .
The  boondorico.  n1oiora -m                              j      -                                                  /1
othe r IssfOrssasothr, otn<iown   Apn                                             i                                ZIMBABWE0                 nonrvo|
onor       on      ors #hf                       )1 d                                                                5 A  r                   MADAAGASCAR
ah sojudrn  Brnt son the fogo Lp(                                SndS           0.
srus of r,on, rot_                                                Amo,oAFRICAT---
or rJCsOp; rJnott of soch                     e           - f                                       4SJ                    g it OAFRICA
iso snndor'es. e                                                                                    48
DECEMBER 1994



