Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3498 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Community Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 22, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3498 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by 
Fonds d’Intervention pour le 
Développement (FID) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to FID, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and FID 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through  October 9, 
Page  2
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means beneficiary of a SubgrantGrant;
(b)
"Commune" means a political sub-division of a Province;
(c)
"Convention" means the convention to be entered into between the Borrower 
and FID pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Convention;
(d)
"FID" means Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement, the Borrower’s 
Community Development Fund, a not-for-profit association serving the public interest 
(association à but non lucratif reconnue d'intérêt public), established and existing 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Décret No. 93-044, dated January 24, 1993;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" or "FY" means any 12-month period beginning on January 1 
and ending on December 31;
(f)
"SubgrantGrant" means a grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds of 
the Credit to finance a Subproject;
(g)
"IEC" means information, education and communications;
(h)
"Procedures Manual" means the Procedures Manual referred to in paragraph 
(3) (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as same may be amended from time to 
time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Procedures Manual;
(i)
"Project Account" means the project account referred to in Section 3.06 
to this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and FID 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(k)
"Province" means any one or more of the six main political sub-divisions 
of the Borrower’ s territory;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)
"Subproject" means any activity under Part A.1 or Part C of the Project, 
in respect of which a Grant has been, or may be, provided.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-five million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 85,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under a SubgrantGrant [why not just 
grant]  to meet the reasonable cost of eligible expenditures relating to a Subproject, 
and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each   May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1, 2011 and ending November 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. FID is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause FID to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of FID therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FID to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon its obligations under paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower undertakes to approve and implement an annual five percent increase in the 
budgetary allocations of its Communes for the entire duration of the Project, 
beginning in Fiscal Year 2001.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make the entire proceeds of the Credit 
available, on a non-reimbursable grant basis, to FID pursuant to a convention to be 
entered into between the Borrower and FID (hereinafter referred to as the Convention), 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association and which 
shall include the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention in such a 
manner so as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and the objectives of FID, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
Page  5
waive the Convention, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by FID 
in respect of the Project pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, an advance account in the currency of the Borrower (hereinafter 
referred to as the Project Account), to be operated and maintained by FID, into which 
it shall deposit from time to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost of 
the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial advance equivalent to 
$250500,000, and thereafter replenish the Project Account on a quarterly basis, or 
whenever the balance thereof equals not more than one third of the amount of the 
initial deposit, whichever occurs first; and
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used only 
for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred in the execution of 
the Project which are not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Borrower or FID shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Convention so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying 
out of the Project; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FID will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Convention has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and FID; 
(b)
the director general, technical director, financial and administrative 
director, communications director, training specialist, IEC specialist, and monitoring 
and evaluation specialist of the central office, as well as the provincial directors, 
IEC specialist and training specialist of each provincial office,accountants, Commune 
facilitators, and training, IEC and monitoring and evaluation specialists, referred to 
in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, have been duly recruited under 
terms, conditions and terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(c)
FID has established a financial management and accounting system, 
acceptable to the Association, and appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 
Page  7
(b) of the Project Agreement, under terms, conditions and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Procedures Manual has been duly approved by the Association and 
adopted by FID; and
(e)
the Project Account has been duly opened, and an initial amount of 
$250500,000 deposited therein in accordance with Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement; 
and
(f)
the Borrower has approved and implemented a five percent increase in the 
annual budgetary allocations of its Communes for FY 2001. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by FID, 
and is legally binding upon FID in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Convention has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower 
and FID, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and FID in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
22489
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Tantely Gabrio Andrianarivo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hafez Ghanem
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Works and goodsGrants for  60,400,000
90% of amount
under Subprojects
of SubgrantGrants
(2)
Consultants’ services 
100% of amount
under Subprojects
of Subgrants
(3)
Technical assistance,
13,170,000
100% of foreign
training and audits
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(4)
Vehicles, equipment,
 1,170,000
100% of foreign
furniture and materials 
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(5)
Operating costs
3,100,000
90%
(6)
Unallocated
7,360,000
TOTAL
     85,200,000
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of local contractual support staff salaries, social 
employment benefits, travel expenditures and other travel-related allowances; 
equipment rental and maintenance; vehicle operation, maintenance and repair; office 
rental and maintenance, materials and supplies; utilities and communications' 
expenses; banking charges; and insurance.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
 in respect of a Grant, unless the SubgrantGrant has been provided in 
accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to, in this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Procedures Manual.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $75,000 equivalent; (ii) consultants services under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, in the case of consulting firms, and $30,000, in the 
case of individual consultants; (iii) operating costs; and (iv) training, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the improved use of, and 
satisfaction with, social and economic services provided thereunder amongst 
participating rural communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Transfers of Funds to Community AssociationsSub-projects 
1.
Appraisal, selection, implementation and supervision of social and economic 
infrastructure rehabilitation and development activities for the benefit of selected 
communities, including training of teachers, health workers, plumbers, road 
maintenance workers and others as needed, and IEC activities, and provision of grants 
to finance such activities.
2.
Training of members of community associations in community participation and 
mobilization methods and in contracting, monitoring of construction and maintenance.
Part B: 
Capacity Building Activities
Training of elected officials and personnel of commune governments in community 
participation, mobilization and preparation of community development plans, legal 
status and powers of communes, execution of Sub-projectSubprojects, basic accounting 
and fiscal budgeting at the local level, and procurement, implementation monitoring 
Page  10
and maintenance.
Part C: 
Community-Driven Development ProgramTransfers of Funds to Communes
Appraisal, selection, implementation and supervision of social and economic 
infrastructure rehabilitation and development activities by communes, and provision of 
grants to finance such activities.
Part D: 
Project Administration and Supervision
Provision of technical and advisory services, and material assistance, to 
support the administration and supervision activities of FID, including beneficiary 
assessments, impact studies, social and community mobilization activities, training of 
FID staff, monitoring and evaluation, and financial and technical audits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (54) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project , as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Sub-grantSubgrantGrants, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $9,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $4,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
Page  11
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  12
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of the Convention
The Convention shall be valid for the duration of the Project, and shall include 
the following terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
1.
The obligation of the Borrower to transfer the proceeds of the Credit, required 
for the implementation of the Project, to FID on a non-reimbursable grant basis, and 
otherwise to take all action necessary to permit FID to carry out the Project and 
ensure the achievement of the objectives thereof, including the prompt provision of 
counterpart funds required therefor.
2.
The obligation of FID to promptly inform the Borrower of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
3.
The obligation of FID, at the request of the Borrower, to exchange views with 
the Borrower with regard to the progress of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, and FID's performance of its obligations under the Convention and 
Procedures Manual.
4.
The obligation of FID to carry out the Project in accordance with this 
Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Convention and Procedures Manual, and at all 
times to ensure that only Sub-projectSubprojects that comply with the Convention and 
Procedures Manual will be financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
5.
The obligation of the Borrower to ensure that its ministries and departments 
responsible for reviewing the Sub-projectSubprojects shall provide their no-objection 
or reasons for objection, as the case may be, in respect of said Subprojects within a 
reasonable period of time after receipt of appropriate documentation from FID.
6.
The mutual obligation of the Borrower and FID to take steps to ensure that: (a) 
in the event of the existence of any potential adverse environmental effects arising 
from the implementation of any Sub-projectSubproject, the environmental action plan 
shall be carried out in a manner acceptable to the Association and monitored on a 
regular basis by both the Borrower and FID; and (b) adequate operational procedures 
shall be maintained at all times to enable both the Borrower and FID to monitor and 
evaluate, on a regular basis and based on indicators acceptable to the Association, 
the prompt carrying out of the environmental action plan.
7.
The obligation of FID to promptly refund to the Borrower any proceeds from the 
Credit not used for purposes of carrying out the Project or for achieving the 
objectives thereof, or otherwise utilized in a manner which does not comply with the 
provisions of this Agreement or the Project Agreement.
8.
A provision stipulating that, in case of conflict between any of the provisions 
contained in the Convention or Procedures Manual, on the one hand, and those set forth 
in this Agreement and the Project Agreement, on the other, the provisions of this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall at all times prevail.
Page  13
