Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3498 MAG
Project Agreement
(Community Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FONDS D’INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated May 22, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3498 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and FONDS D’INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT (FID).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
eighty-five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 85,200,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that FID agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and FID, the 
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be 
made available to FID on the terms and conditions set forth in said Convention; and
WHEREAS FID, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FID declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and with due regard to 
environmental and ecological considerations, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and FID shall otherwise agree, FID shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. FID shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. FID shall duly perform all its obligations under the Convention.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FID shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) FID shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
FID shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by FID of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FID
Section 3.01. FID shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices, and with due 
regard to environmental and ecological considerations, under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. FID shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial and technical practices, and with due regard to environmental and ecological 
considerations.
Section 3.03. FID shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  FID shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
FID shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,         
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and   
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, including, as part of the 
information to be provided in each such report, a management 
letter covering FID’s internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, FID shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to 
enable FID, not later than February 28, 2002, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and     
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, FID shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Page  4
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
FID thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify FID of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For FID:
Fonds d'Intervention pour le Développement
B.P. 8231
Lot: II J 164
Ambodivoanjo
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FID, or by FID 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of FID or such other person or 
persons as the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall designate in writing, and FID 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
Page  5
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hafez Ghanem
Acting Regional Vice President
FONDS D’INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Tantely Gabrio Andrianarivo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  6
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts A.1 and C of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, and specified in the 
Procedures Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  7
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical audits and training estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent,  
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance and support to FID shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Subprojects under Parts A.1 and C of 
the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the 
Association, and specified in the Procedures Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, and FID’s higher 
level personnel, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
Page  8
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
FID shall maintain a board of directors, whose mandate, terms of reference and 
composition shall be acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for monitoring 
and supervision, and general oversight, of the Project, including liaison with the 
Association and other donors.
2.
FID shall take steps to ensure that:
(a) 
subject to the overall authority and oversight functions of its board of 
directors, its director general shall be responsible for overall supervision and 
coordination of the Project;
(b)
in the exercise of his functions, the director general shall be assisted 
by a technical director, a provincial director in each of the six Provinces, a 
financial and administrative director to oversee FID’s accounts, financial reports and 
audit arrangements, a communications director, a training specialist, an IEC 
specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, and other suitably qualified and 
experienced staff in adequate numbers;
(c)
each provincial director shall be assisted by an accounting staff to be 
responsible for provincial accounts, an IEC specialist, a training specialist to 
organize and supervise training programs for the benefit of the Communes, and other 
suitably qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers; and
(d)
the positions of director general, technical director, financial and 
administrative director, communications director, provincial directors, accountants, 
and training, IEC and monitoring and evaluation specialists, which are referred to in 
this paragraph, shall be kept filled at all times by persons having qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association.
3.
FID shall: 
(a)
prepare and transmit to the Association for comments, and thereafter 
adopt in form and substance acceptable to the Association, a Procedures Manual 
(hereinafter referred to as the Procedures Manual), giving details of all procedural 
arrangements for the review, appraisal, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of 
Subprojects, including procedures for submission and review of requests for financing, 
criteria for the review and approval of Subprojects, and approval of Grants, 
applicable procurement, disbursement and other implementation guidelines, and model 
forms of Grant Agreements; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Procedures Manual, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion 
of the Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
4.
FID shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, as the case may 
be:
(a)
not later than October 31 of each year, a proposed annual work program 
(AWP), including a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal 
Page  9
year;
(b)
quarterly and annual progress reports on the status of the Project, 
including regular beneficiary assessment and client feedback reports;
(c)
reports as needed on the award of individual contracts under the Project; 
and
(d)
quarterly procurement reports giving details of: 
(i)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the 
Project; 
(ii)
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, 
bidding, contract award and completion time for individual 
contracts; and
(iii)
status of compliance with aggregate limits on prescribed 
procurement procedures, and with the Procedures Manual.
5.
(a)
FID shall, not later than November 30 of each year, commencing on 
November 30, 2002, undertake, in conjunction with the Borrower and the Association, a 
joint annual review (or, in the case of the review to be held not later than November 
30, 2003, a midterm review) of the Project, during which they shall exchange views 
generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance 
by the Borrower and FID of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and this Agreement, respectively, and, in particular, the progress achieved 
by the Borrower and FID during the current fiscal year, having regard to the 
monitoring indicators agreed upon amongst the Borrower, the Association and FID.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to each review, FID shall furnish to the 
Association, for its review, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in 
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review.
(c)
Following each review, FID undertakes to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted 
in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may have 
been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
6.
Further to Section 3.02 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated to Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement shall be subject to the following additional terms and 
conditions:
(a)
the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to provide Grants to 
finance Subprojects, in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth 
in the Procedures Manual;
(b)
no Grant shall be granted except to finance a Subproject which 
contributes to the living standards and well-being of the community or Commune 
concerned;
(c)
every Subproject proposal shall be classified according to environmental 
impact category, and subjected as necessary to environmental impact analysis, to 
ensure that: (i) it is fully consistent with environmental appraisal criteria set out 
in the Procedures Manual; and (ii) where appropriate, mitigation measures designed to 
minimize adverse effects of the proposed Subproject are identified and incorporated in 
the Subproject design;
(d)
Grants shall be provided for the benefit of eligible Beneficiaries, and 
according to a cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the Association and 
specified in the Procedures Manual; provided, however, that: 
Page  10
(i)
the proceeds of a Grant shall not be used to finance taxes or 
duties levied on or in respect of eligible expenditures relating 
to a Subproject, or any part thereof; and
(ii)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the amount of 
each Grant shall not exceed:
(A) 
in the case of a Subproject under Part A.1 of the Project 
involving rural roads, $100,000 or 95 percent of the total 
cost of the Subproject, whichever is less;
(B) 
in the case of a Subproject under Part A.1 of the Project 
other than a Subproject involving rural roads, $50,000 
equivalent or 85 percent of the total cost of the 
Subproject, whichever is less; and
(C) 
in the case of Subproject under Part C of the Project, 85 
percent of the total cost of the Subproject;
(e)
goods, services and works required for the purposes of financing 
Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and set forth in the Procedures Manual; and
(f)
for purposes of each Grant, an agreement shall be concluded with the 
Beneficiary in the form of the model provided in the Procedures Manual, setting forth 
the respective obligations of the parties thereunder, including details of 
disbursement schedules and procurement procedures, the amount of the Beneficiary’s 
contribution to the cost of the Subproject, and the additional terms and conditions 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Additional Terms and Conditions of Grant Agreements
Each Grant Agreement shall include the following terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association:
1.
The Beneficiary shall be required to carry out and operate the Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with sound administrative, financial 
and technical practices, and with due regard to appropriate environmental and 
ecological considerations.
2.
The Beneficiary shall have the obligation to ensure at all times that: (a) 
goods, works and consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; (b) such goods, works and consultants' services shall be used exclusively 
for implementing the Subproject and achieving the objectives of the Project; and (c) 
upon completion of the Subproject, such Subproject shall be operated and maintained in 
accordance with the operation and maintenance plan agreed upon with FID.
3.
FID shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives 
of the Borrower or the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works and services included in the Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant 
records and documents, and obtain any report in connection therewith, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.
FID shall have the right to obtain all such information as FID, the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably request relating to the administration, operations 
and financial condition of each Beneficiary, and the benefits derived from the 
Subproject.
5.
The right of any Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Credit, or any 
part thereof, shall be promptly suspended upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform 
any of its respective obligations under the Grant Agreement.
Page  11
