                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    ReportNo: 36465 - MG




                                    PROJECT PAPER

                                            ONA

                 PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING(CREDIT)

                                   INTHEAMOUNT OF
              SDR 12.2MILLION(US$18.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                          TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                         FOR THE

                      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                        June 23,2006


HumanDevelopmentI11
Country Department8
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective June 14,2006)


           Currency Unit = Ariary
             MGA 2,175      = USD 1
               USD 1.49      = SDR 1

                        FISCAL YEAR

                   January 1   - December31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACORDS     Appui aux Communes et Organisations Ruralespour le
           De'veloppementdu Sud (Support to Communes and Rural
           Organizations for the Development ofthe South)
AGETIPA    Agence d'Exe'cution des Travaux d'lnfrastructures Publiques
           dYntananarivo (The Public Works Executing Agency of
           Antananarivo)
CAC        Centre d'appui aux communes (Commune Support Centers)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDD        Community DrivenDevelopment
CFAA/CPAR  Country FinancialAccountability Assessment/ Country
           ProcurementAssessment Report
CPGU       Cellule de Pre'vention et de Gestion des Urgences (Emergency
           PreparednessandManagement Unit)
EU         EuropeanUnion
FID        Fonds d'Intewentionpour le De'veloppement (Community
           Development Fund)
FIDEF      Fe'de'rationInternationaledes Experts Comptables
           Francophones (International Federation of French-Speaking
           Certified Public Accountants)
FMR        Financial Management Report
GD         General Directorate
GoM        Government ofMadagascar
GtZ        Gesellschaftfur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Agency
           for Technical Cooperation)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IFMS       Integrated Financial Management System
IGF        Inspection Ge'ne'raledes Finances (GeneralFinance Inspection)
INTEC      Institut National des TechniquesEconomiques et Comptables
           (National Institute ofEconomic andAccounting Techniques)
ISR        Implementation Status Report
LDF        Local Development Fund
MAP        Madagascar Action Plan

MDAT       MinistBrede la De'centralisationet de I'Ame'nagementdu
           Territoire (Ministryof Decentralization andRegional
           Planning)
MOP        Memorandum ofthe President
M&E     ,  Monitoring andEvaluation
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OPCI       OrganismePublic de Coope'rationIntercommunale(Inter-
           Communal Public Organizations)
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PGDI       Programme de Gouvernanceet de De'veloppementInstitutionnel
           (The Governance andInstitutional Development Program)
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SIF        Social InvestmentFund
SOE        Statement o fExpenditures
UNDP       The UnitedNations Development Program
UNICEF     The UnitedNations Children's Fund
USAID      The UnitedStates Agency for International Development




          1




              Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
            Country Director:     James P. Bond
              Sector Director:    Yaw Ansu
           Task Team Leader:      Nadine T. Poupart


                        REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                     ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
                 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                       Page

I. Introduction..............................................................................                         .2
11.   BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing ..............................                                    ..3
111.  ProposedChanges........................................................................                          .6
IV.                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                        11
      ExpectedOutcomes .....................................................................
      Appraisalof Scaled-upProject Activities .............................................
      Consistencywith the Country Assistance Strategy(CAS) .........................
V.
VI.                                                                                                                   .13
VII.  BenefitsandRisks..............................................i................................................   13
VIII. FinancialTerms andConditionsForthe AdditionalFinancing....................                                        15
IX.   Credit ConditionsandCovenants......................................................                              .15

SCHEDULES

ScheduleA: EstimatedProjectCost
             Source of Financing

ScheduleB: FinancipgPlanandDisbursementSchedule
                                                                            ~


             Allocations andDisbursementsof OriginalCredit, SupplementalCredit
             andAdditional Financing

Schedule C:  ProcurementArrangements

ScheduleD: TimetableofKey Project ProcessingEvents
             Project Team

ScheduleE: PerformanceIndictors

ScheduleF: FinancialManagementandAssessmentReport

 ScheduleG: Country at a Glance


MAP

 IBRDNo. 34897


                                REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
                           COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                   PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET

Date: June 23,2006                           Team Leader: Nadine Poupart
Country: Madagascar                          Sector DirectorManager:Yaw Ansul Laura Frigenti
Project Name: Community Development          Country Director: James P. Bond

Borrower: Governmentof Madagascar
Responsible agency: Fonds d'Intervention pour le Developpement(FID)




Current closing date: June 30,2008

Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions
from Bank policies?                                                    oYes  [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                           oYes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Revised project development objective/outcomes
The development objective of the project has not beenrevised.


                                      For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [XICredit     [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
Total Bankfinancing (US$m.): 18.00
Proposed terms: Credit repayable in40 years, with a grace period of 10years.

                                      Financing Plan (US Im.)
                  Source                         Local       Foreign            Total
Borrower                                         0.00         0.00              0.00
IDA                                             17.50         0.50              18.00
CommunitiesiBeneficiaries                        1.10         0.00              1.10
Total                                           18.60         0.50              19.10




                                                  1

I.Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an
additional credit in an amount of SDR 12.2 million (US$18 million equivalent) to the
Republic o f Madagascar for the Community Development Project (PO55 166) (Cr. 3498-
MAG). This would be the second additional credit for this project. The closing date of
the proposed additional financing i s June 30, 2008. The closing date o f the original
project (Cr. 3498-MAG7 FYO1) and ongoing supplemental credit (Cr. 3498-1 MAG,
FY04) i s June 30,2007.

2.      The proposed additional financing would mainly finance the costs associated with
the scaling-up o f the activities implemented by the social investment fund (Fonds
d'Intervention pour le DCveloppment or FID), and supported by the project, until the
future role o f the FID under the country's 2005 Deconcentration and Decentralization
Policy i s defined. To a much lesser extent, the proposed additional credit would also
allow for the completion o f the reconstructiono f infrastructure damaged duringthe 2004
cyclones, for whichthe government o f Madagascar (GoM) received a supplementalcredit
inFY04that provedinsufficient due to: (i) inflationin2004 and2005 (13.8 %and
                                             strong
18.4% respectively); and (ii)slight underestimation o f the reconstruction needs.
                               a

3.      The development objective under the additional financing would be similar to that
o f the original project, as amended on November 14, 2002 (see par. 7 below).         The
objective i s to improve the use o f and satisfaction with project-supported social and
economic services provided amongst participatingrural and urban communities.

4.      The additional financing would consolidate components and activities that were
added over the life o f the original project. In addition, the additional financing would
finance capacity building activities requested by the Ministry o f Decentralization and
Regional Planning (MDAT) to support the implementation of the Deconcentration and
DecentralizationPolicy.

5.      The proposed credit would mainly finance: (i)     transfer of funds to communities
for the implementation o f 95 sub-projects (such as schools, health facilities, water
supplies, and markets); (ii) transfer o f funds to communes for the implementation of 66
sub-projects; (iii)rehabilitationheconstruction o f 36 infrastructures damaged by the 2004
cyclones; (iv) capacity building activities for about 60 communes and 103 communities;
(iv) equipment and operating costs of 8 "Commune Support Centers" (Centres d'Appui
aux Communes or CAC), development o f training modules, training o f staff of 18 CAC
and o f approximately 54 representatives o f deconcentrated services, surveys and studies;
and (vi) FID operating costs.




                                              2

11.Backgroundand Rationalefor Additional Financing

Current Project Design

6.      `The credit supporting the Community Development Project (SDR 85.2 million,
US$I10 million equivalent) was approved on April 19, 2001, and became effective on
October 23, 2001. A supplemental credit (SDR34.2 million, US$50 million equivalent)
was approved on June 16, 2004, to cover the additional costs for emergency work
incurredas a result ofthe cyclones that hitthe country from January to March2004. The
cyclones damaged or destroyedmore than 5,700 social and economic facilities. To date,
90% of the original and supplemental credits have been disbursed. The balance (about
US$17.3 million) is expectedto be disbursedover the coming year.

7.      The legal documents of the original project have been amended four times during
implementation, mainly to respondto changing country circumstances and urgent needs.
The Jirst amendment, which was approved by the Board on November 14, 2002*,
occurred following the six-month political crisis in 2002, when the entire IDA portfolio
was restructured to respond to the urgent social and economic needs of the government.
To do this, a component was added to the project to provide a permanent social safety net
mechanism. The project was also expanded to include urban areas that were most
affected by the crisis, thereby modifying the project development objective. In April
2004, the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement were amended a
second time to add a new component to the project ("Cyclone Emergency and Disaster
Relief Activities"), allowing for financing o f emergency supplies (such as blankets, tents,
andwater pills) following the passage ofthe Elitaand Gafilo cyclones inearly 2004. The
development objective o f the project was not affected by this amendment. The third
amendment was made on July 21, 2004 for the purpose o f implementing the FY04
supplemental credit. Finally, a reallocation of more than 5% of the credit proceeds was
approvedinNovember 2005.

8.      The project's current design is as follows:


    0   Component I: Transfers of Funds to Community Associations, US$68.2 million
         (US$64 million for the original credit, and US$4.2 million for the FY04
        supplemental credit): This component transfers funds to community associations
        to finance community requested sub-projects (investments) such as school
        buildings, health facilities, water supplies, feeder roads, markets, and slaughter
        houses.


    0   Component2: Capacity BuildingActivities, US$ 12.5 million (US$I2 millionfor
        the original credit, and US$O.5 millionfor the FY04 supplemental credit). This
        activity trains community associations and communes in project management,
        accounting, and procurement. It also supports the preparation of participatory
        communal development plans.

`Cf. MemorandumandRecommendationofthe President,ProposedPortfolio Restructuringin a Post-
Crisis environmentinthe Republic o f Madagascar,October 22,2002, ReportNo. P7561-MAG


                                                3

    e  Component 3:       Transfers of Funds to Communes, USs20.5 million (US$ 20
       million for the original credit, and US$0.5 million for the FY04 supplemental
       credit). This component transfers funds to communes to finance sub-projects
       which consist o f a priority investment intheir communal development plan.


    0   Component 4: Project Administration and Supervision, US$ 14.8 million
        (US$14million for the original credit, and US$0.8 million for the FY04
       supplemental credit). This component funds administration and operating costs,
       training o f staff, beneficiary assessments, impact evaluations, poverty studies,
       monitoring and evaluation, and financial and technical audits.

    e   Component 5: Social Safety Net Activities, US$ 11.6million (US$ 6.6 millionfor
        the original credit, and US$ 5.0 millionfor the FY04 supplemental credit). The
        component finances social safety net sub-projects implemented by accredited
        faith and non-faith NGOs and associations, with the objective o f creating short-
       term employment and provide revenues for families that are most affected by
        climatic or other shocks. These demand-driven activities are inthe form o f food-
        for-work or cash-for-work under the minimumwage.

    a   Component 6: Cyclone Emergency and Disaster Relief Activities, US$0.5 million
        (FY04 supplemental credit).       This component aimed to improve the living
        conditions o fthe most affected households for six months after the 2004 cyclones,
        including reducing the risk o f malnutrition, ensuring availability o f potable
        drinking water, protecting affected households from risk o f disease outbreaks and
        supporting local health services.

Statusof ProjectImplementation

9.      Both the development objective and implementation progress are currently rated
satisfactory. The FID continues to be a successful instrument both to support local
development on a large scale and to respond to numerous climatic and other shocks that
the country faces. To date, the project has financed close to 1,800 community sub-
projects such as schools, health facilities, feeder roads, potable water schemes, small
scale irrigation, and markets. It has also financed the rehabilitatiodreconstruction o f
about 3,744 facilities following the 2004 cyclones.         The 'Transfer-to-Communes'
component successfully channeled funds to 120 communes which implemented 611 sub-
projects.   The FID has helped half o f all rural communes in the country develop
Communal Development Plans through a participatory process. In addition, the 'Social
Safety Nets' component has created approximately 16.2 million person-days o f temporary
labor.   An impact evaluation is expected to provide detailed evidence o f project
outcomes. Recruitment o f a consultant to carry out the impact evaluation is due no later
than November 30,2006. The project i s incompliance with its covenants.




                                             4

RationaleandReasonsfor the AdditionalFinancing

10.     The government has requested additional financing of US$18 million equivalent
for the Community Development Project to scale-up the activities implemented by the
FID until its future role under the 2005 Deconcentration and Decentralization Policy is
defined. Under this policy, the government is establishing a Local Development Fund
(LDF) as a means to harmonize and streamline support to local development within the
government structure. The additional financing would enable the government to continue
delivering services until such time as the LDF i s effective and is supported by sufficient
resources, including IDA. To a muchlesser extent, the proposed additional credit would
also allow for the completion of facilities damaged during the 2004 cyclones, for which
the GoM receivedthe first supplementalcredit inFY04that proved insufficient dueto: (i)
strong inflation in 2004 and 2005 (13.8 % and 18.4% respectively); and (ii)a slight
underestimation of the reconstruction needs.

11.     The Community Development Project is the fourth IDA-financed project that
supports demand-drivenactivities implementedby the FID. During the last 13 years, the
FID has gained extensive experience and built solid capacity in delivering
community/commune-requested intervention in the education, health, water and
sanitation and transport sectors notably, and in responding to large shocks faced by the
country. Iti s currently the largestcommunity development program inMadagascar.

12.     Inaddition to the FID, there are three other large programs in Madagascar that
deliver some type of social and economic infrastructure and services to communes and/or
communities: (i)   the IDA-supported Rural Development Support Project; (ii)    ACORDS
(financed by the EU), and (iii)  AGETIPA (now financed by the French government). In
addition, much smaller donor programs have been providing support to communes and
communities. These programs have often been acting relatively independently, and
without a coherent framework.

13.     InNovember 2003, the major donors supporting local development (the World
Bank, the French cooperation, the Swiss cooperation, GtZ, UNDP, the EuropeanUnion,
and USAID)agreed to harmonize their programs andprocedures. Soon after, the MDAT
was created (decree of March 2005) and has since received support from various donors.
The MDAT immediately took on this harmonization agenda and commissioned a
feasibility study for establishing a multi-donor Local Development Fund (LDF) that
would consolidatethe transfer o f resourcesto communes ina sustainable way, and would
build their long term capacity. The LDF concept is a key element of the government
Decentralization and Deconcentration Policy that was approved inDecember 2005. The
policy aims at strengthening local governance (with civil society participation) in the
1,560 communes and 22 regions of the country to improve service delivery and economic
development.

14.     Early 2006, the MDAT commissioneda complementary LDFto further define: (i)
what the LDF operating mechanisms and institutional framework should be; (ii) the how
existing mechanisms (notably the FID) would fit into the LDF framework; and (iii)     what



                                             5

capacity-building arrangements should accompany the reform. The draft study that was
circulated to the donors on June 7,2006 didnot provide, however, sufficient guidance on
the second point. The MDAT intends, therefore, to carry out additional analysis on the
integration into the LDF of the FID and other existing mechanisms, in terms of legal,
administrative, and operational arrangements. The MDAT would like to start pilotingthe
LDF mechanism, with a light administrative structure, as soon as the end of 2006. The
legal and operational constitution of the FDL will take time. It is currently anticipated
that the FDL will be operational mid-2007.

15.     Inthe context of the ongoing discussions for the next CAS (scheduledfor Board
presentation in January 2007), support to the LDF i s being considered either through
budget support or through a larger FY08 CDD/decentralization project that would use a
Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp), with possibly pooled donor funds. The proposed
additional credit would therefore bridge the gap untilthe FY08 operation is effective. It
would allow the FID to scale-up the delivery of basic services to communes and
communities while its future role is being defined.

16.     In addition, the proposed additional credit would allow the FID to rehabilitate
and/or reconstruct about 36 facilities damaged by the 2004 cyclones and not included in
past annualwork plans due to lack of funds.

17.     The proposed scale-up does not create any implementation capacity issue. The
FID has been able to disburse successfully much larger amounts annually. The new
capacity building activities in support to the LDF (under Component 5-b, see below),
wouldbenefit from the technical input ofthe MDAT.

 18.    The proposed additional financing would be made available under a new
Financing Agreement subject to the General Conditions revised as of July 1, 2005, and a
newProject Agreement.

111.Proposed Changes

 19.    The development objective underthe additional financing would be similar to that
of the original project as amended on November 14, 2002, and the additional financing
would consolidate components and activities that were addedover the life of the original
project. In addition, the additional financing would finance capacity building activities
requested by the MDAT to support the implementation of the Deconcentration and
DecentralizationPolicy.

20.     Project components would be the same as those of the original project except for
Component 4 ("Cyclone Emergency and Disaster Relief Activities"). This component
was created to respondto the exceptional situation o f the 2004 cyclones that requiredthe
Bank to intervene in relief activities. These activities are no longer needed. Instead, a
new component 4 "Rehabilitation and Reconstruction in Response to Natural Disasters"
would focus on disaster-related rehabilitation and reconstruction that were previously
includedinthe first and second components of the original project ("Transfers of Funds



                                            6

to Community Associations" and "Transfers of Funds to Communes" respectively).
Under the additional financing, components 1 and 2 would address local development,
components 2 and 3 would address shocks, and components 4 and 6 would deal with
cross cutting issues.   These changes are consistent with the recommendations o f the
project's mid-term review (March 2005) that suggested a clearer institutional and
administrative separation o f the FID's double mandate of: (i)  supporting long term local
development; and (ii)    responding to shocks, a short-term and largely unpredictable
activity by nature. Project components would now consist of:


    0   Component 1: Transfers of Funds to Community Associations (US$6.3million)
        would remain unchanged.

    e   Component2: Transfers of Funds to Communes: (US$4.8million) would remain
        unchanged.

    e   Component 3: Social Safety Nets (Shocks) (US$0.4 million) would remain
        unchanged. This public workfare program would be activated after a shock has
        occurred (weather, price, lean season etc.).     Sub-projects would preferably be
        those that would contribute to the prevention or mitigation o f future shocks.


    e   Component 4:       Rehabilitation and Reconstruction in Response to Natural
        Disasters (US$I.6 million). This component would finance the reconstruction
        and rehabilitation o f infrastructure damaged duringnatural disasters. Sub-projects
        would include health facilities, schools, rural water supply and sanitation, feeder
        roads, bridges, markets, and administrative infrastructure. These works would be
        implemented by community associations or communes, except for complex or
        large sub-projects that the FID would implement on their behalf, as described in
        the Manual of Procedures. Works would conform to the FID's regular anti-
        cyclone standards or standards that have received the prior approval ofthe FID (in
        the case o fNGO-executed contracts).


    0   Component5: Capacity Building Activities (US$2.1 million). Underthis
        component, the additional financing would:

            a) scale-up original project activities; and
            b) finance new capacity building activities (US$1 million) requested by the
               MDATthat will contribute to the establishment o fthe LocalDevelopment
               Fund. These activities would include : (i) for the establishment
                                                              support
               and operating costs o f eight Communal Support Centers (Centre d'Appui
               aux Communes or CAC), including training of staff for all o f the 18 pilot
               CACs planned nationwide; (ii)development o f training modules on
               various themes (e.g.         participatory planning,  budget management,
               collection o f fiscal revenues, monitoring and evaluation (M&E); (iii)
               training o f deconcentrated staff; (iv) development o f a LDF database and
               M&E system including a qualitative survey to measure the impact o f
               CACs; and (v) studies (e.g. a study to define legal procedures,



                                               7

                implementation manuals and allocation systems under the FDL;
                stocktaking o ftraining for local development).


    e    Component 6: Project Administration and Supervision (US$2.8 million) would
         remain unchanged. The recruitment o f a M&E specialist (ongoing) and the
         planned impact evaluation are expected to respond to the shortcomings in the
         FID's M&E system identified under both the Third Social Fund Project (Cr.
         2778-MAG), also implemented by the FID, andthe original project.

21.      Inorder to better reflect the new institutional context, especially the creation in
2005 o f the MDAT, and to position the FID under the LDF, the governance structure o f
the FID - including the composition o f its Board - will be changed prior to credit
effectiveness. The Board could include representatives from the MDAT, the Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Budget, the Unit o f Prevention and Management o f Emergencies
(Cellule de Pre`vention et de Gestion des Urgences or CPGU), communes (mayors) as
well as from the academic world (University and/or Research sector).

ProjectCost and Financing

22.      The total project cost, including taxes and duties, is estimated at US$19.1 million
equivalent with the following breakdown: US$18 million provided by IDA, and
US$ 1.1million provided through community and commune contributions. The
breakdown o f estimated costs i s shown inSchedule A.

ProjectImplementation,FinancialManagement,andProcurementArrangements

23.      Implementation Mechanisms. These mechanisms would be the same under the
additional financing as those o f the original project, as they are working well. The FID
was created in 1993 and has successfully executed earlier social funds in Madagascar
under IDA-financed projects (the FoodSecurity andNutritionProject, the Second Social
Fund Project, and the Third Social Fund Project). It was established as a non-profit
association for public service ("association ir but non lucratifreconnue d'inte`rztpublic"),
and it i s autonomous. The FID will continue to operate on a decentralized basis through
six inter-regional offices in accordance with the provisions o f its by-laws, and the
Framework Agreement (Convention) between the FID and the government.                    The
Framework Agreement will be updated, or a new one will be signed, to reflect the
additional financing.

24.      The FID's Manual o f Procedures clearly defines identification, preparation,
appraisal, selection and implementation modalities for each type o f sub-project.
Beneficiaries are expected to contribute a percentage o f the cost o f each sub-project in
kind (materials and labor) or in cash. In April 2004, the Manual o f Procedures was
updated. An additional volume ("Cyclonic Disasters") was added to guide the FID on the
implementation o f the rehabilitation and reconstruction o f damaged infrastructure and
emergency relief activities. Based on lessons learned with the implementation o f the
response to the 2004 cyclones, this volume i s being revised and merged with the volume



                                              8

dealing with "Safety Nets" to develop a new volume on "Response to shocks".              The
Manual o f Procedures i s also being updated to include some modifications in the
allocation to communes, following the Mid-Term Review recommendations. Under the
original project, US$5 per capita were allocated to selected communes each year under a
multi-annual convention. This created large inequities between selected and non selected
communes, and prevented lesser populated communes from financing meaningful
investments. Allocation to communes will now be based on the cost o f the priority sub-
project in the Communal Development Plan, with a cap o f US$lOO,OOO per sub-project.
The system o f multi-annual conventions with selected communes will be replaced by
annual conventions.      The 66 new communes selected to receive a grant under the
proposed additional financing respond a mix o f criteria that reflect their poverty and
capacity levels defined in the Manual o f Procedure, as well as criteria linked to the
sampling requirement for the planned project impact evaluation. Inthe future, the FDL
targeting criteria should apply.

25.     Regarding the capacity-building activities supporting the LDF (Component 5-b),
implementation arrangements will be as follows. The FID will remain the implementing
agency and will be responsible for ensuring that the procedures set up in the Manual o f
Procedures, Financing Agreement, and Project Agreement are followed. The FID will
therefore be responsible for procurement, disbursements, and financial arrangements.
However, the MDAT will be technically responsible for this sub-component and will
therefore approve terms o f reference as well as affix its signature as a third party observer
to consultant contracts signed by the FID. Before effectiveness, the MDAT will
designate a committee or a person who will be responsible, within the ministry, for the
technical quality o f this sub-component andwill liaise with the FID on a regular basis.

26.     The CACs will be constituted o f individual consultants (about 3) selected by a
committee o f mayors o f the beneficiary communes. Each CAC will be legally attached to
inter-communal      public     organizations   (Organisme       Public     de    Coope`ration
Intercommunale, OPCI). The CACs will have a dual goal: (i) provide direct capacity
                                                                   to
buildingto local governments in areas such as communal legislation, fiscal management
and revenue administration; and (ii) match commune needs with (a) training service
                                       to
providers and (b) investment funds channeled though the LDF. Each CAC will cover
between 10and 15 communes. Duringthe first year, only 18 CACs will be established in
the country as a pilot (of which 8 will be financed by the proposed credit, and 10 will be
financed by other donors such as UNDP, UNICEF, the French cooperation, the Swiss
cooperation, GtZ and USAID).       If successful, this approach will be scaled up. Inthe
medium term, it is expected that the CAC functions will be incorporated by the
communes, and CACs will be phased out. The 8 pilot CACs supported by the project will
be selected in a way to reach both very poor and wealthier rural communes in order to
prepare for a balanced coverage o f recipients under the future LDF. Supervision will be
ensured through FID's inter-regional offices. A CAC Manual o f Procedures will be
prepared by the MDAT, as a condition for disbursement against sub-component 5-b (i),
and shared with other donors to ensure a consistent implementation o f CACs nationwide.




                                             9

27.     Financial Management Arrangements. Financial management arrangements
will be the same as for the original project as they are working satisfactorily. The FID
has established an acceptable computerized accounting and reporting system for the
project, which will continue for the additional financing. However, the update o f the
current Administrative and Financial Manual will be needed to reflect the new Chart o f
accounts and models o f Financial Management Reports (FMRs) required for managing
and monitoring project activities. The format and the frequency o f periodic reporting
have been agreed upon at negotiations and are described in the updated Administrative
and Financial Manual which will be submitted to IDA prior to credit effectiveness.
Independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, will audit the use of all funds available under
the additional financing, including the designated account and the Statements o f
Expenditures (SOE). Audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months
after the end o f the fiscal year.     The auditors should be recruited prior to credit
effectiveness. A new designated account will be used with an authorized ceiling o f US$
4 million. Statements o f Expenditureswould be usedfor all expendituresunder contracts
below the Association's prior review limits.

28.     Procurement. Procurement o f goods and services will be carried out as stated in
the Financing Agreement, the Project Agreement, and the FID's Manual o f Procedures
and will be undertaken in accordance to World Bank Guidelines For Procurement o f
Goods and Works under IDA Credits (as revised on May 2004) and World Bank
Guidelines for Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (as
revised on May 2004).      The following procurement methods will be applied to the
additional financing: international competitive bidding, national competitive bidding,
national shopping, and community participation for goods and works and quality-- and
cost-based selection, least cost selection, single source selection, procedures set forth in
paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 o f Consultant Guidelines for the selection o f individual
consultants andprocedures set forth inparagraphs 3.16 and 3.2 1o f Consultant Guidelines
for the selection of NGOs and service delivery contractors for consultancy services and
community activities. Procurement will be conducted in accordance with the 18-month
procurementplanagreed upon duringnegotiations.

29.     The closing date ofthe additional financing is June 30,2008.

IV. Consistencywith the CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS)

30.     InAugust 2003, the government finalized its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP), following a broad and inclusive participatory process. The overarching goal o f
the PRSP is to cut the poverty rate by half in ten years, from 70 % in 2003 to 35% in
2013. To attain this objective, the PRSP has three strategic axes: (i)   good governance;
(ii)broad-based growth; and (iii) and material security. A cross-cutting axis o f
                                   human
monitoring and evaluation underpinsthe strategy. Under the strategic axis o f human and
material security, the main objective i s to enhance human capacity and strengthen
individual assets, through education, health and nutrition. The PRSP views the commune
as the main local service provider and the anchor for all interventions in this domain.




                                             10

Implementation of the PRSP has been satisfactory as evidenced by the annual PRSP
Progress Reports2.

31.      The November 2003 CAS was designed to support the implementation o f
Madagascar's PRSP. The CAS refocused the existing portfolio to better align itselfto the
PRSP objectives and address the key constraints to broad-based growth.                   The CAS
focused Bank interventions on creating a much larger impact on rural poverty, and aimed
at protecting the most vulnerable against shocks. The Community Development Project
i s a key element o f the Bank's support to the PRSP as it finances: (i)small-scale
investment for improved basic service delivery in rural areas where 77% o f the
population i s poor; and (ii)safety net activities to protect the most vulnerable. The G o M
i s currently preparing its "second-generation" PRSP called the Madagascar Action Plan
(MAP) that sets out the "roadmap" aiming to produce a quantum leap in the country's
development process. Inparallel, the Bank i s preparingits new CAS which will support
the implementation o f the MAP. The new CAS will reflect the GoM's focus on
delivering services, especially inrural areas. The proposed additional financing i s thus a
core element in the Bank's support to the M A P because it continues a successful and
effective program for community development that i s having a real impact on the ground.

V. Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities

32.      Although the project i s being scaled up, the program remains as originally
designed and appraised. The economic, financial, technical, institutional, fiduciary, and
social aspects of the activities to be undertaken with the additional financing remain the
same as inthe original project, except for sub-component 5-b requested by the MDAT.

Institutionaland TechnicalAssessments for sub-component 5-b

33.      The additional financing will provide capacity building support to the MDAT for
the establishment o fthe LDF, which constitutes a new activity. Although the MDAT i s a
new Ministry, it i s a dynamic institution that receives technical support from several
donors. It i s also a busy Ministry, which led IDA to request the formal designation o f a
committee or focal point to be responsible for the technical quality o f this sub-component
before credit effectiveness (see section VI1on Benefits and Risks).

34.      O n the technical side, the preparatory work for the LDF i s o f good quality, and
should lead to an adequate design o f the Fund. Yet, the CAC concept i s not as well
developed, and supporting the pilot CACs constitute a project risk (see section VI1 on
Benefits and Risks). It is however felt that Bank support to the CAC will help bring a
more structured and harmonized implementation of this new mechanism to reinforce
local governments' capacity.




  Report No. 30036-MG and Report of June 2005 for which no reference number is available.


                                                11

FinancialAssessment

35.      The FID is responsible for implementing the project and managing the credit
funds. The overall project coordination is undertaken by the FID General Directorate
(GD) headed by a General Manager. The latter is assisted by six inter-regional directors
and five managers respectively in charge o f financial management, operations, quality,
capacity buildingand response to natural disasters. The Director o f Finance, at the central
level, i s in charge o f the overall aspect o f the project financial management including
budgeting, maintenance o f records and accounts for all transactions related to GD,
consolidation and production o f the project financial statements and quarterly FMRs, and
administration o f the designated account.           The inter-regional offices manage
disbursements from the sub-designated accounts, maintain records and accounts for all
transactions under their responsibilities send on a monthly basis the balance sheet to the
GD for consolidation and prepare financial and other basic information on project
management/monitoring as required by the GD. The OPCI will receive from the FID a
specific allocation (per the budget agreed with the MDAT) to be used for the payment o f
operating costs o f the CACs (component 5-b.(i)).        The OPCI will keep a simplified
accounting system satisfactory to IDA and will prepare also financial and technical
reports as required by the FID.

36.      In accordance with Bank policy and procedures, the financial management
arrangements of the FID responsible for the implementation o f components/activities to
be supported under the additional financing, have been reviewed to determine whether
they are acceptable to the Bank. Details o f the full review can be found in Schedule F.
This review is an update since the FMsystem o f this entity has already beenassessed in
the context o f the ongoing Community Development Project. The conclusion o f this
review rated the project's FM system "globally satisfactory".               However, some
improvements are needed to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information as requiredby the IDA for managing and monitoring project activities. The
recommended improvements include: (i)the update o f the current Administrative and
Financial Manual to reflect the new Chart o f accounts, and the models o f Project Reports
to be produced under this additional financing. This should be completed prior to credit
effectiveness; and (ii) the recruitment of an additional internal auditor (ongoing).

37.      The project financial statements will be audited annually by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards of
Auditing. The auditors should be recruited prior to credit effectiveness. The audit report
will be submitted to IDA no later than 6 months after the end o f each fiscal year. It is
important to mention that no major issues have been encountered so far interms o f audit
covenants: the Community Development Project and all other Bank-financed projects in
Madagascar have always submitted their audit reports within the timeframe.

EnvironmentalAssessment

38.      The environmental classification o f the ongoing project is Category B. The
additional financing would fund community sub-projects similar in scale and scope to



                                              12

those implemented under the original project.             As part o f the preparation for the
supplemental credit to the Community Development Project, a missionwas undertakenin
M a y 2004 to identify possible environmental and social safeguard risks associated with
sub-projects funded under the project and to evaluate the capacity o f the FID to address
the World Bank's safeguard requirements3. The environmental assessment produced by
the mission determined that the capacity o fthe FIDto implementsafeguard requirements
was weak and required strengthening.                  Furthermore, it was found that the
recommendations provided inan environmental assessment study carried out in 1999 for
the Third Social Fund Project had not been implemented satisfactorily.                 In order to
address these issues, several measures were undertaken including: (a) each inter-regional
office o f the FID was assigned an environmental specialist; (b) the Manual o f Procedures
was revised to comply effectively with new World Bank safeguard policies (a separate
volume on environmental procedures was produced); and (c) additional training was
provided to the FID staff and implementing partners on safeguard compliance.
Implementation o f these measures was supervised in June 2005, and found to be overall
satisfactory. The team i s therefore confident that future activities to be financed under
the proposed additional financing will comply effectively with the Bank's safeguard
policies andthe national requirements.

39.     The proposed scale-up does not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.


VI. ExpectedOutcomes

40.     Key outcome indicators for the project and output indicators for each component
have been defined and are presented in Annex 1 o f the original Project Appraisal
Document (PAD). A set o f output indicators was added under the FY04 supplemental
credit. All these indicators will continue to apply and are presented inSchedule E.


VII. Benefitsand Risks

41.     Benefits. Benefits remain as described in the PAD. The project will benefit
people who live inrural areas by:

     k Increasing their access to basic social and economic services and by improving
        the quality o fthe services;
     P Increasingproductivity and income over the medium and long-term, as economic
        investments in infrastructure such as feeder roads improve the profitability o f
        agriculture, and as social infrastructure in health and education improve labor
        productivity; and
     k Building the capacity of community associations and commune authorities to
        plan, implement andoperate development sub-projects.




  "Evaluation de la Conformitk am Directives de Sauvegardes du Projet de Dkveloppernent
Communautaire", Banquemondiale, ERMIAQUATERRE.July 27, 2004.


                                                 13

42.     The project also provides Madagascar with an efficient instrument to respond to
the major shocks that the country faces on a recurrent basis through: (i)  rehabilitation and
reconstruction of damaged or destroyed infrastructure; and (ii)labor-intensive public
works (safety nets).

43.     In addition, the additional financing will also contribute to the establishment of
the multi-donor LDF through sub-component 5-b.

44.     Risks. The critical risks mentioned in the PAD remain valid, except for the risk
that the government will not provide counterpart funds on schedule, since the proposed
credit would finance 100% of expenses including taxes (as per the Country Financing
Parameters approved on May 12, 2005). In addition, the following four risks should be
mentioned:

9 The FID staffmay start leaving the institution (a substantial risk) because they feel
    their job is threatened by: (i) lack o f clarity on the future of the FID under the
                                    the
    LDF; and (ii) donor commitment on the LDF. Measures to mitigate this risk
                   unclear
    include: (a) the finalization and dissemination o f the complementary LDF study that
    should present options on the role o f the FID; and (b) additional analysis on the
    integration into the LDF o f the FID and other existing mechanisms, interms o f legal,
    administrative, and operational arrangements. It will also be important that the Bank
    clarifies its willingness to support the institution in the context of the ongoing CAS
    discussions.

k Partnership between the FID and the MDAT is not effective (a moderate risk). The
    FID has been set up to operate relatively independently for many years. The recent
    government's commitment towards decentralization and empowerment o f communes,
    however, calls for a stronger integration o f the FID's activities into the government's
    structure. This collaboration will be particularly necessary for the implementation o f
    sub-component 5-b.       To clarify the role o f the FID and the MDAT for the
    implementation o f this sub-component, a Memorandum o f Understanding should be
    signedby October 31,2006.

k TheMDATS busy agendadoesnot allowfor an eficient implementation of CACs
    (a moderate risk). This risk i s mitigated by the designation o f a committee or a focal
    person who will be responsible, within the ministry, for the technical quality of sub-
    component 5-b and who would liaise with the FID on a regular basis.

9 Thefinancial sustainability of CACs remains uncertain (a substantial risk). The
    MDAT expects CACs to be phased out within 4-5 years, at which point communes
    are expected to pay for the services they purchase. However, the ability o f communes,
    especially the poor ones, to raise local revenue remains unclear in such a timeframe.
    Because the CACs are being implemented as a pilot initiative their design will partly
    be drivenby a process o f "learning by doing". A thorough monitoring and evaluation
    system as well as a detailed Manual ofProcedures will guide implementation.




                                              14

VIII. FinancialTerms and ConditionsFor the AdditionalFinancing

45.     The additional financing will be provided as an IDA credit.          The Country
Financing Parameters allow for up to 100% project financing, including taxes. The
financing parametersalso allow for recurrent cost financing where required, providedthat
the implications of recurrent cost financing on Madagascar's fiscal situation and debt
sustainability are taken into consideration.

IX. CreditConditionsandCovenants

    (i) ConditionsForEffectiveness

         a. The relevant legal texts regulating the FID have been updated in a manner
             satisfactory to IDA and members of its Board of directors have been
             appointed.

         b. The MDAT has nominated staff with appropriate experience and
             qualifications to be responsible for the technical supervision of sub-
             component 5-b.

         c. The recruitment of external financial auditors i s acceptableto IDA.

         d. The FID has updated its Administrative and Financial Manual to reflect the
             new Chart of Accounts and models of Project Reports in a manner
             satisfactory to IDA.

    (ii)   ConditionsFor Disbursement

         a. Disbursement of funds for sub-component 5-b-i i s subject to submission for
             IDA review of a CAC Manual of Procedures setting forth its legal status,
             composition and rules o f operation, administration and finance, including a
             proposedwork plan and amonitoringand evaluation plan.

    (iii) Covenants

         a. Recruitment of a consultant to carry out a project impact evaluation no later
             than November 30,2006; and

         b. ProductionofProject Reports on a six-monthly basis.




                                            15

                                                                 SCHEDULE A
                                                                     Page 1or 1


                          REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                       ADDITIONAL FINNACING FOR THE
                     COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                          ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
                            (in US$million equivalent)



           Category             Local     1  Foreign       Total     Foreignas %
                                                                       of total
( 1) Goods, Works,
Consultants' services and
Grants for sub-projects
a) under Part B 2(a) ofthe
project (component 5-b)                                    0.50          0.00
                                                          18.60          1.60
                                                                    I
                                                          19.10          1.60



                           SOURCE OF FINANCING
                            (in US$million equivalent)



                               Local    Foreign      Total      Percentageof
                                                             ForeignExpenditures
IDA                            17.50       0.50      18.00           2.70

Communities and Communes        1.10                  1.10           0.00

Total                       II 18.60  II   0.50   II 19.10 II        2.60

                                                                           SCHEDULE B
                                                                               Page 1of 2


                                REPUBLICOF MADAGASCAR
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
                          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                          FINANCINGPLAN(by ProjectComponent)
                                     (in US$million equivalent)

 COMPONENT                                                          ~1
                                                                    Community       Total
                                                                       and
                                                                    Communes
  1, Transfers of finds to community
 associations
 2. Transfers of funds to communes                       4.80          0.50          5.30
 3. Social safety net activities                         0.40                  I     0.40   I
 4. Reconstructioninresponse to natural                  1.60                        1.60
 disasters
  5. Capacity building activities                        2.10                        2.10
I 6. Proiect administration and suDervision       I      2.80                        2.80
 Unallocated                                             0.00
 Total Baseline Cost                                     18.00
 Physical Contingencies                                  0.00
 Price Contingencies                                     0.00
                             TotalProjectCosts                                 I             I
                     Interest during Construction




                                  DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
                                     (in US$ million equivalent)

    FY                                         2007                       2008

    Annual                                     10.00                       8.00
    Cumulative                                 10.00                      18.00

                                                                           SCHEDULE B
                                                                               Page 2 of 2

            ALLOCATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS OF ORIGINAL CREDIT,
               SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT, AND ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                           (in US$million)

              Category                OriginalCredit (Cr. Supplemental Credit   YOofexpenditures
                                         34980-MAG)        (Cr. 34981-MAG)         to be financed
                                      Amountas amended    Amount as amended
                                      inNovember2005       inNovember 2005

~
(1) Grants for sub-projects                                                   100% o f amount of
     (a) under Part Eof the project                             3.00          ;rants disbursed
     (b) under Part F o fthe project                            0.00
     (c) other                               82.10              46.30
(2) Technical assistance, training,          8.50               0.50          100%o f foreign
                                                                              expenditures and 85%
                                                                              o f local expenditures
                                                                              for initial financing;
                                                                              85% o f foreign
                                                                              expenditures and 75%
                                                                              o f local expenditures
                                                                              for consultants' services
                                                                              (including audits) and
                                                                              100%o ftraining
                                                                              expenditures for
                                                                              additional financing
(3) Vehicles, equipment,                     1.70                1.oo         100 % o f foreign
furniture, materials                                                          expenditures and 80%
                                                                              oflocal expenditures
 (4) Operating cost                          5.90               0.30          90%



ource: Client connection, June 8,2006.
~




              Category                    Additional      YOof expendituresto
                                          Financing           be financed
                                           Amount
 (1) Goods, Works, Consultants'
 Services and Grants for sub-
 projects                                                        100%
     (a) Under Part B 2(a) o fthe            0.50
 project4
 -  -(b) Other                               17.50




     Sub-component 5-b.

                                            SCHEDULE C
                                                Page 1of 1

     REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
   ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

   PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
         (in US$million equivalent)

                                                                  I
Category                             ProcurementMethod




                         I            I         1  0.50    1 0.50 I

                                                                      SCHEDULE D
                                                                           Page 1of 1


                          REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                       ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR THE
                    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


              TIMETABLE OFKEYPROJECT PROCESSINGEVENTS



Milestone                                         Available Date




Time takento prepare:                       5 months

Preparedby:                                 Government with assistance o f World Bank Staff

Appraisalblegotiations :                    May/June 2006

EstimatedBoard date:                        August 3,2006

Planned Date of Effectiveness:              November 2006

Project Completion:                         December 31,2007

Credit Closing:                             June 30,2008



We proposethat this additional financing be processedfollowing streamlined procedures.


Project Team: The preparation team included: Messrs./Mmes. Nadine Poupart, Sr. Economist and
Team Leader (AFTH3); Gilles Veuillot, Counsel (LEGAF); Sylvain Rambeloson, Sr. Procurement
Specialist; Lova Ravaoarimino, Procurement Analyst (AFTPC); Gervais Rakotoarimanana, Sr.
Financial Management Specialist (AFTFM); Wolfgang Chadab, Finance Officer (LOAG2); Asmara-
Lua Achcar, Consultant (AFTH3); Frank-Borge Wietzke, Consultant (AFTH3); Paul-Jean Feno,
Environmental Specialist, Consultant (AFTS1); Anne Anglio, Seraphine Nsabimana and Astania
Kamau, Program Assistants (AFTH3); and Jenny Rahamefy, Temporary (AFC08). Ms.Laura Frigenti
i s the SectorManager.

            g
            b




            .
            4
            z




0 0 . 0 . .




                 % %
                 0 0

Y
0
.;;
El

c
b?

0




..
r4

      s d
      c
      V C    c
         cc




             rr




             yr




U
E
x
0
i$
s
a
h

                                                                                SCHEDULE F
                                                                                      Page 1of 9

                                REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                            ADDITIONAL FINANCINGFOR THE
                          COMMUNITYDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT REPORT


1. ExecutiveSummary

1.    Inaccordance withBank policy andprocedures, the financial management arrangements o f
the FID responsible for the implementation o f components/activities to be supported under the
additional financing, have been reviewedto determine whether they are acceptable to the Bank.
This review is rather an update since the FM system o f this entity has already been assessed in
the context o fthe ongoing Community Development Project. The conclusiono fthis reviewrated
the project FM system "globally satisfactory". However, some improvements are needed to
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the IDA for
managing and monitoring project activities. The recommended improvements include: i)the
update o f the current Administrative and Financial manual to reflect the new Chart o f accounts,
and the models o f FMRs to be produced under this additional financing; ii)the recruitment o f an
additional internal auditor. These remedial actions should be completed prior to credit
effectiveness.

2.    The project financial statements will be audited annually by independent and qualified
auditors acceptable to IDA, inaccordance with International Standards o f Auditing. The auditors
should be recruited prior to credit effectiveness. The audit report will be submitted to IDA not
later than 6 months after the end o f each fiscal year. It's important to mention that no major
issues have been encountered so far in terms o f audit covenants: the Community Development
Project and all other Bank-financed projects in Madagascar have always submitted their audit
reports within the timeframe.

2. Countryissues

3.    The World Bank's Country Financial Accountability Assessment/ Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CFAAKPAR), completed in 2003, and some diagnostic works carried out
over the last three years by the Bank and other donors, identified a range o f weaknesses and
issues hampering the performance of Madagascar's budget and expendituremanagement system.
To address these issues, the government has developed in2004 and 2005, inconjunction with all
key development partners, a priority action plan for public finance reform. The main
achievements encountered so far include: i)adoption o f a new organic public finance law; ii)
introduction o f program budgetsto improve the presentation ofthe budget and its alignment with
policy priorities o f the government as specified in the PRSP; iii)reinforcement o f the Treasury
internal control systemby recruiting additional staff and improving the operational efficiency of

                                                                                    SCHEDULEF
                                                                                         Page2 of 9

the "Brigade duTrCsor"; iv) simplification o fthe expenditure management process by integrating
the functions o f "sous-ordonnateurs'l and credit managers; v) creation o f an internal control
mechanism (IGF: General Finance Inspection) at the level o fthe Ministryo f Finance; vi) review
o f the legal framework for the control institutions (IGF, Brigade duTrCsor, Auditor general) and
implementation o f capacity buildingmeasures to improve their efficiency; vii) development and
implementation o f a computerizedintegrated financial management system insix main
treasuries, capturing the different phases o fthe expenditureprocess. The reinforcement o fthe
Treasury internal control andthe implementationo f the integrated financial management system
(IFMS) insix treasuries have improvedtimeliness and quality o ffinancial information.

4.    The Auditor General has also cleared the backlog o f accounts and completed the
examination o f the draft budget execution laws for the years 1998 until 2003. The oversight
function o f Parliament has been strengthened through capacity building and training o f the
Public Finance Committee.

5.     While overall implementation progress o f the reform program i s encouraging, significant
efforts remain to be done, including the followings: i)improvement o f budget execution rate in
priority sectors; ii)reinforcement o f the capacity o f the line ministries in public financial
management, especially in the implementation o f the new program budget structure; iii)
strengthening o f cash management; iv) production o f the treasury accounts within the legal
timeframe; and v) reinforcement o f control over State owned companies and national public
institutions. The strategic coordination o f the multiple reforms and the monitoring & evaluation
systemneedalso to be improved. To mitigate risks inpublic expenditure management, the World
Bank, through the Governance and Institutional Development Program (PGDI), and a number o f
donors continue to support govemment's public finance reforms reflected in its annual priority
action plan for 2006.

6.     Regarding the accounting profession, some positive developments have been noted over
the last three years through assistance provided by the FIDEF ('&d&ration Internationale des
Experts Comptables Francophones) and INTEC (Institut National des Techniques Economiques
et Comptables). However, a number o f local accounting firms continue to operate below the
international standards due to the lack o f proper auditing standards, clearly defined guidelines
and procedures for systematic peer reviews, quality control mechanisms to harmonize
methodology. To improve the capacity and the competitiveness o f local auditing firms, the
following measures have been taken while auditing Bank/IDA financed projects: i)obligation for
local auditors to enter into partnership with international accounting firms;            ii)effective
participation o f the international accounting firm in audit fieldworks and submission o f audit
report jointly signed by the local and international audit firms. An accounting and auditing
Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes would be certainly helpful to identify clearly
issues and actions to be taken to strengthen the capacity o f the accounting profession in
Madagascar.

                                                                                         SCHEDULEF
                                                                                               Page3 of 9

3. FinancialManagement RiskAssessment and Mitigation

7.     The following table identifies the key risks that the project management may face, and
provides the measuresto be taken to mitigate these risks:

                 Risks                Risk          RiskMitigation Measures                     Condition of
                                      rating                                              Negotiations, Board or
                                                                                                Effectiveness


Country Level
The audit may not be conducted in            Recruitment o f an international auditing  Effectiveness condition.
compliance with international                firm acceptable to IDA to auditthe
auditingstandardsdue to the weak             project financial statements.
capacity o f the accounting
profession in Madagascar.

Entity Level

Project Level
                                             2- CONTROLRISK
_____
Budgeting                               L
Accounting
New activities under component 5-b     M '   Review o f the Chart o f accounts andthe   Effectiveness condition.
to be implemented underthis                  models o f FMRs to reflect new activities
additional financing are not                 and components to be implemented under
reflected neither inthe current Chart        this additional financing. Update o fthe
o f accounts nor inthe current               Administrative and Financial Manualto
models o fFMRs.                              include these changes.
Internal control
The OPCI may not have adequate         M     Elaboration o fthe CAC Manual, and         No.
capacity to managethe funds                  organization o f users training to ensure
allocated to finance the CAC                 consistent application o f procedures by
operating costs.                             the OPCI (or the elected Commune)
                                             accounting staff.

                                             Carrying out regular internal audits to
                                             ensure the use o f funds for the purposes
                                             intended.                                  No.
Funds flow:
Lack o f counterpart funds.            M     Use o fthe new Country Financing           No.
                                             Parameters which allow IDA to fund
                                             100% o fthe project costs.
Auditing
(See comments above regardingthe        S    (See comments above on audit).             Effectiveness
audit).                                                                                 Condition.

                                                                                          SCHEDULEF
                                                                                               Page 4 of 9
4. Strengths and Weaknesses

8.    The FID has strong experience in managing World Bank funds as it has been in charge o f
implementing the Community Development Project as well as previous IDA-financed projects
(cf. par. 23). The accountinghudgeting system i s adequate and the internal control procedures
appropriate. It has also a qualified and trained accounting staff which is very knowledgeable
with Bank procedures. However, to further strengthen the project financial management system,
some measures need to be taken. The following table provides relevant measures to address
main deficiencies identifiedinthe FID financial management system:


 Significant weaknesses                           Actions                        Date       Responsible
                                                                                Due by
 1- Chart of accounts not       Review o f the chart o f accounts to reflect  06130106   FID:
 reflecting yet the new         new componentslactivities eligible under                 Administrative and
 activities (in component 5-b)  this additional financing to satisfy                     Financial Director.
 to be executed under this      reporting requirements.
 additional financing.
 2- Administrative and          Update of the accounting manual o f           06130106   FID:
 Financial Manual not being     procedures to facilitate adequate record                 Administrative and
 updated to include the new     keeping o ftransactions, and satisfy                     Financial Director.
 chart o f accounts and the     reporting requirements.
 models o f FMRsreflecting
 new activities (in component
 5-b) to be implemented under
 this additional financing.

 3- Weak capacity o f the OPCI  Elaboration o f a CAC manual that will        07131/06   MDAT
 incharge ofthe management      provide clear guidance to OPCI
 o f hnds to finance the CACs   accounting staff, and organization of                    FID:General
 operating costs.               users training prior to transfer o f funds to            Director,
                                OPCI.                                                    Administrative and
                                                                                         Financial Director ,
                                Carrying out regular internal audits to                  Internal auditor(s).
                                ensure the use o f funds for the purposes
                                intended.
 4- Inadequate number o f       Recruitment of an additional internal         07131/06   FID: General
 internal auditors.             auditor in conformity with Bank                          Director.
                                procedures.
 5- Auditors incharge of the
 review o fthe project accounts Recruitment of an accounting firm
 within the context ofthis      acceptable to IDA to carry out the audit      0813 1/06  FID:General
 additional financing have not  o fthe project accounts.                                 Director.
 beenrecruitedyet.

                                                                                     SCHEDULEF
                                                                                          Page 5 of 9
5. Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements

9.   FIDis responsible for implementingthe project andmanagingthe credit funds. The overall
project coordination i s undertaken by the FID General Directorate headed by a General Director.
The General Director is assisted by six inter-regional directors and five managers respectively in
charge o f financial management, operations, quality, capacity building and response to natural
disasters. The Director o f Finance, at the central level, i s in charge o f the overall aspect o f the
project financial management including budgeting, maintenance o f records and accounts for all
transactions related to GD,consolidation and production o f the project financial statements and
FMRs, administration of the designated account.               The inter-regional offices manage
disbursements from the sub designated accounts, maintain records and accounts for all
transactions under their responsibilities send on a monthly basis the balance sheet to the General
Directorate for consolidation and prepare financial and other basic information on project
management/monitoring as required by the GD. Inter-communal public organizations, OPCIs,
are in charge with managing support to Commune Support Centres under component 5-b (i)
(Capacity building activities in support to the LDF). The OPCI will receive from the FID a
specific allocation (per the budget agreed with the MDAT) to be used for the payment o f
operating costs o f the Commune Support Centers (component 5-b (i)).          The OPCIs will keep a
simplified accounting system satisfactory to IDA and will prepare also financial and technical
reports as required by the FID.

6. Staffing

10. The FID's accounting staff is qualified and have relevant experience to be completely
successful in carrying out their functions.    With regard to the OPCIs, the CAC Manual of
Procedures will be prepared by the FID and the MDAT and specific training will be provided to
strengthen OPCIs' accounting staff capacity and ensure consistent application o f procedures.
These actions should be completedprior to credit effectiveness.

7. Budgeting

11. Budgeting arrangements for the project are described clearly in its Administrative and
Financial Manual. The accounting software in place can adequately cater for the budgeting
arrangements o fthe project.

8. AccountingPoliciesand Procedures

12. The computerized accounting system in place i s in compliance with generally accounting
standards and IDA requirements, and capable o f recording and producing in a timely manner all
financial reports required for managing and monitoring project activities. It operates on a
decentralized basis with six inter-regional offices and uses standard book accounts (journals,
ledgers andtrial balances) to enter and summarize transactions. Yet, the Chart of accounts needs
to be reviewed to reflect new activities (in component 5-b) to be financed under this additional
financing. This update should be completedprior to credit effectiveness.

                                                                                  SCHEDULE F
                                                                                       Page6 of 9

9. InternalControlandInternalAuditing

13. The FID internal control system i s globally satisfactory: proper authorization to initiate and
execute transactions, budgeting system, adequate measures for safeguarding assets.              An
Administrative and Financial Manual is also available.
                                          '                     However this manual needs to be
updated inorder to include the new Chart o f accounts, and the content and format o f new FMRs
to be preparedunder this additional financing.

14. Inaddition, to ensure consistent application o f the procedures and efficient use o f funds by
executing agencies (inter-regional offices, OPCI) the mission considers more appropriate the
recruitment o f an additional internal auditor in conformity with Bank procedures.            This
recruitment i s currently underway and will be finalized prior to credit effectiveness. The close
collaboration between internal auditors, the M&E inter-regional staff and the agents incharge o f
components i s also highly recommended to strengthen the project internal control. The nature,
extent and strength o f controls depend on factors such as the nature o f operation and the degree
o f risk. All issues identified during internal audit should be addressed quickly to improve the
project performance.

10. FundsFlow andDisbursementsArrangements

15.   The flow of funds from IDA and the government i s presented as follows:


                                       (Credit)

                                         .t
                        Project Implementation Unit (FID)
                               (Designated account)


                                      4
                         FID:RegionalDirectorates
                   I                                             I

                       Communes/Communities/OPCI



                   Contractors, Suppliers of goods and services

                                                                                  SCHEDULEF
                                                                                     Page7 of 9


16. For the implementation of this project a designated account will be opened in a local
commercial bank under conditions satisfactory to IDA. The account will be denominated inUS$.
Disbursementsfrom the IDA credit will be deposited onthis account to finance the project.

17. Funds deposited in this account will be used to ensure timely payments o f all executing
agencies (inter-regional offices, OPCI), contractors and suppliers o f goods and services. To
facilitate the operations of FID's inter-regional offices and CACs, and to ensure prompt payment
o f contractors and suppliers operating in the regions, the "designated account 90-day advance
procedure" will be used. Under this procedure, FID will advance funds sums covering no more
that 90 days estimated expenditures (in local currency) to regional FID accounts, as well as to
accounts o f beneficiary communes, communities and OPCIs based upon submission o f
satisfactory budgeted work plans. FID inter-regional offices and OPCIs will submit monthly
expenditurereports indicating sources and uses o f funds, and accompanied by reconciled bank
statements.     FID will then aggregate this data, and prepare replenishment applications
accompanied by the bank statement for the main designated account. All documents supporting
executing agencies expenditures will be retained by these entities and made available for review
by the FID internal auditor, Bank supervisionmission and external auditors. The project Manual
o f Procedures and Administrative and Financial Manual describe indetails all procedural aspects
regarding financial management (payments, replenishment, reporting, internal control) as well as
the designated account 90-day advance procedure.

18.    Method of Disbursement. The project would follow the transaction-based disbursements
procedures (traditional mode) outlined inthe Bank's DisbursementHandbook. The use o f report-
based disbursements could be possible thereafter if requested by the borrower and if the
following criteria are met: i)the FM rating has been maintained at satisfactory level; and ii)the
submissionof at least three quarterly satisfactory FMRsthat could be relied upon for purposes of
disbursement. Detailed disbursement procedures will be described in the project's
Administrative and Financial Manual.

19. Minimum of Application Size. The minimum application size for direct payments, to be
withdrawn directly from the Credit Account, and special commitments is 20% o f the amount
advanced to the related designated account.

20. Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Withdrawals are to be made onthe basis o f SOEs
for the following cases:

    P Contracts for works inanamount inferior to US$100,000;
    P Contracts for equipments andgoods inan amount inferior to US$100,000;
    P Contracts for consulting services, training by firms oflessthanUS$ 100,000; and
    P Contracts for consulting services, training by individual o fless than US$ 50,000 andall
         incremental operating expenses.

                                                                                 SCHEDULEF
                                                                                      Page 8 of 9

21. DesignatedAccount. To ensure that funds will be available when needed, one designated
account in US$ will be established in a local commercial bank under conditions satisfactory to
IDA.This designated account inthe amount of US$4 million will be opened inthe name o fthe
FID. This amount has been estimated to cover about four months o f expenditures and would be
withdrawn from the credit account after effectiveness.

22.  The designated account would be replenished on the basis o f documentary evidence o f
payments required by IDA, made from the designated account, eligible for financing under IDA
Credit. All SOEs supporting documentation will be kept by the executing agencies and made
available for review by bank supervision missions and external auditors.

11. FinancialReporting

23.   To monitor project implementation, the FID will produce the following reports that should
be prepared incompliance with international accounting standards:

        (i)AnnualFinancialStatements. Theyinclude: (a) asummaryofsourcesandusesof
        funds (by components/project activitiedcredit category and showing all sources of
        funds); and(b) the Project Balance Sheet.

        (ii)FMRs. The FMRs includes financial reports, physical progress reports and
        procurement reports to facilitate project monitoring. The FMRs should be submitted to
        IDA within 45 days of the end o f the reporting period (six-monthly basis). The form and
        content o f FMRs have been agreed at negotiations. Models o f these reports will be
        presented inthe project's Administrative and Financial Manual.

12. Auditing

24.   The project financial statements will be audited annually by an international private
accounting firm acceptable to IDA, in accordance with International Standards o f Auditing and
the new FM. The auditors will provide: i)a single opinion on the annual financial statements,
stating whether the financial statements fairly present the financial transactions and balances
associated with the implementation o f the project, and if the expenditures financed by the credit
were appropriate; ii)a management report outlining any recommendations for the improvement
of the internal control procedures. The auditors will be also required to carry out, on a sample
basis, the audit o f subprojects, the direct transfers to Communes and funds allocated to finance
CAC operating costs. The audit report will be submittedto IDA not later than six months after
the end o f each fiscal year. The auditors should be recruited prior to credit effectiveness. The
terms o f reference o f the audit will be reviewed by the financial management specialist o f the
Bank/IDA to ensure the adequacy o f the audit scope drawing special attention to particular risk
areas identified duringproject preparation or implementation.

                                                                                         SCHEDULE F
                                                                                               Page9 of 9

                   Audit Reports                                          DueDate
1. FID financial statements.                        Within six months after the end of each financial year.

2. Project consolidated financial statements.       Within six months after the end of each financial year.

3. Selected Communes financial statements.          Within six months after the end of each financial year.
4. Selected subprojects financial statements.       Within six months after the end of each financial year.
5. Selected OPCI financial statements.              Within six months after the end ofeach financial year.

13. Conditionality

    (i)EffectivenessConditionsRelatedtoFinancialManagement

     P Submission of updated Administrative and Financial Manual to IDA to reflect the new
         Chart o f accounts and models o f Project reports; and
     P Recruitment ofexternal auditors acceptable to IDA.

    (ii)FinancialCovenants

     P ProductionofProjectReports ona six-monthly basis.

14. SupervisionPlan

25. A supervision mission will be conducted at least once every year based on the risk
assessment o f the project. The mission's objectives will include ensuring that strong financial
management systems are maintained for the project throughout its life. A reviewwill be carried
out regularly to ensure that expendituresincurred by the project remain eligible for IDA funding.
The Implementation Status Report (ISR) will include a financial management rating for the
component.

                                    Madagascar at a glance                                                                           6/23/06

                                                                       sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                  Saharan          Low-
                                                      Madagascar     Africa       income     Developmentdiamond'
2005
Population, mid-year (millions)                               18.6      726         2,343
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                            290       600          510                     Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                              5.4       437         1,188

Average annual growth, 1999-05                                                                                      T
Population(%)                                                 2.8        2.3          1.9
Labor force (%)                                               3.1        2.4          2.2                                             Gross
                                                                                                                                     primary
Most recentestimate (latest year available, 199405)                                          capita                                enrollment
                                                                                                                    1
Poverty ("7of population below nationalpoverty line)           71
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                        27         37           31
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                 56         47           58
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                        76       101            79
Child malnutrition ("7of childrenunder 5)                      42                      43         Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)           31         58           75
Literacy (% ofpopulation age 154                               68         60           61
Gross primaryenrollment (% of schooCagepopulation)            134         93          100            I      I-.
                                                                                                              Madagascar
   Male                                                       136         98          105                     Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                       ~

   Female                                                     131         87           94

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    1985     1995      2004         2005
GDP (US$billions)                                    2.9       3.2        4.4         5.0
Gross capital formatiorVGDP                          8.5      10.9     24.3          22.4
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                    12.2      24.1     32.6          25.6                         Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           0.3       3.6        7.8         7.7
Gross national savingdGDP                           -0.2       0.4      13.5         11.1   I                       T
Current account balance/GDP                         -8.2      -8.4     -10.8         -11.3
Interest payments/GDP                                2.1                                      Domestic
                                                               0.6        0.7         0.8                                ----I Capital

Total debt/GDP                                      88.2     136.2     79.5          70.3     savings                            formation

Total debt service/exports                          38.1       7.1        5.6         9.6
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                                             50.9                           I

Presentvalue of debt/exports                                                        195.0
                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                       1985-95 1995-05       2004      2005       2005-09
(averageannual growth)
GDP                                        1.o       2.8       5.3        4.6          6.7              -Madagascar
GDP per capita                             -1.8     -0.1       2.4        1.8         4.0                       Low-incomegroup
                                                                                                           ~
Exportsof goods and services               4.4       0.8       1.5        8.1         11.9


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

                                                                                            I
 (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                         35 1      267       288           281
 IndustN                                            133        9 2      160           159
  Manifacturing                                     113        7 9      142           141     20
Services                                            51 5      641       552           560      0
                                                                                             -20
Householdfinal consumption expenditure              900       899       82 7          84 2                  ---
                                                                                             .40
General gov't final consumption expenditure          9 8       6 7        9 6          8 1
 Importsof goods and services                       205       31 7      492           403                         GCF      e G D P



                                                 1985-95 1995-05       2004          2005
 (averageannual growth)                                                                      Growthof exports and Imports(%)                 I
 Agriculture                                         2.2       2.0        3.1          2.5
 Industry                                            1.o       2.7        6.5          3.0    40

   Manufacturing                                     0.4       3.5        6.1          5.8    20

 Services                                            1.o       2.8        6.0          6.1    0
                                                                                             -20
 Householdfinal consumption expenditure              0.6       4.4        8.1          9.2   -40


 Gross capital formation                             1 7      104       57 6           2 3                  ~-
                                                                                                           I    Exports    -Imports



 Note: 2005 data are preliminary estimates.
  The diamonds show four keyindicators inthe country (in bold)compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamond will
   be incomplete.


                                                                                                          Madagascar

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1985  1995    2004    2005
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                       49.0    14.0    18.4
ImplicitGDP deflator                          10.4   45.2    14.3    18.3

Government finance
("7of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                               13.7    9.0    16.0    12.3
Currentbudgetbalance                           7.0   -1.6     3.4     1.4            -                                       I
Overall surpluddeficit                          1.o  -7.9    -9.1    -8.7   I              GDPdeflator *CPi


                                                                                                                             I
TRADE
                                              1985  1995    2004    2005
(US$ mi/lions)                                                                Exportand import levels ( U S mill.)

Total exports(fob)                            291    566     997      7aa    2 . m  T
  Coffee                                        22     59     47       26
  Vanilla                                       44     41     140      34    1,500
  Manufactures                                  42   296     737      671
Total imports(cif)                            466    739    1,634   1,733     1,m

   Food                                         50     67      83      79      500
   Fueland energy                               85     ai     204     253                                                     I
   Capitalgoods                                 9a   141      300     293        0
                                                                                         00
Export price index (2000=100)                  104    119     176     125            69        01     02    03       04  05

Importpriceindex (2000=700)                     72   107      103     106                  Exports        8Imports
Terms of trade (2000=700)                      145    111     170     i i a

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                              1985   1995    2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services                   350   a03    1,423   1,291      0
 Importsof goods and services                  569   992    2,143   2,030      2
 Resource balance                             -219   -1a9    -720    -739
                                                                               4
Net income                                    -112   -158     -79      -84
 Net current transfers                          98     ao     330     249      -8

Currentaccount balance                        -233   -267    -470    -568       8

 Financingitems(net)                           217    328     488     569     -10

 Changes in net reserves                        16     -61    -1a        -1   -12

 Memo:
 Reserves including gold (US$millions)          49    110     489     495
 Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)              132.5 853.6  1,871.a 2,005.7

 EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                              1985   1995    2004    2005
 (US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2005 debt (US$ mill.)

 Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2,520 4,302   3,462    3,536
   IBRD                                         28      12      0         0
   IDA                                         316   1,110  2,269    2,485                     F:59;: 23


 Total debt service                             150     5a     81      127
   IBRD                                           3      5      0         0
   IDA                                            3     15     27       48

 Composition of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                               60    102     251
   Officialcreditors                            133     70    484      154
   Private creditors                              5     -4      -4     -10
   Foreign direct investment (net inflows)        0     10       0
   PoMolioequity (net inflows)                    0      0       0

 World Bank program
   Commitments                                  73      65    260              A- IBRD                         E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                58      76    31 a     227     B. IDA    D Other multilateral
                                                                                           -                   F Private
   Principal repayments                           2     11     10        30    C IMF                              ---
                                                                                   ~                           G Short-term
   Net flows                                    56      65    307      198
   Interest payments                              4      9     16        18
   Net transfers                                52      56    291      179


 Development Economics                                                                                                 6/23/06


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 34897

                                                                 45E                                                                                                                          50E




                                                                                                                                                        Antsiranana


                            MADAGASCAR                                    Mayotte
                                                                          (France)

                                                                                                                                                                          Ambilobe
                                                                                                                                                                          Ambilobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vohimarina
                                                                                                                                            Ambanja            ANTSIRANANAANTSIRANANA
                                                                                                                                                   MaromokotroMaromokotro

                                                                            e  l                                                                       (2,876 m)
                                                                                                                                                       (2,876 m)
                                                                                                                                                                MassifMassif                         Sambava
                                                                       n n                                                                             Tsaratanana
                                                                                                                                                               saratanana

                                                              h    a                                                                                              Bealanana
                                                                                                                                                                  Bealanana

15S                                                      C                                                                      Antsohihy                                                Andapa
                                                                                                                                                                                          Andapa       Antalaha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15S



                                        q   u    e                                                                                              Sofia           Befandriana
                                                                                                                                                                Befandriana                  Maroantsetra


                                    b  i                                       Mahajanga

                                                                                                                                                                    Mandritsara
                                                                                                                                                                    Mandritsara
                                 m                                                                                                      Mampikony
                                                                                                                                        Mampikony                                        o
                                                                                                                                                                                        v      Mananara
                       o  z    a                                   Soalala
                                                                                                                                  Mahajamba
                                                                                                                                         Bemarivo                                      a
                   M                                                                                                                                                                  g
                                            Besalampy          Bongol a v a  M A H A J A N G A                                                                                       n
                                                                                                                                                                                    A
                                                                                         Maevatanana
                                                                                         Maevatanana
                                                            of                                                          Betsiboka                               Andilamena
                                                                                                                                                                Andilamena         f       Soanierana-Ivongo

                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                       CliffManambaho                                                                                                       A
                                                                            Kandreho
                                                                            Kandreho                                                                LakeLake                             Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                                                         Andriamena
                                                                                                         Andriamena                              AlaotraAlaotra


                                                                                                                                                                     A       C
                                     Maintirano                                  Mahavavy                                                                                SIN  liff
                                                                                                                                                     Vohidiala
                                                                                                                                                       hidiala
                                                                                                      Ankazobe
                                                                                                      Ankazobe                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                   A               Toamasina
                                                               Ambaravaranala
                                                               Ambaravaranala        ANTANANARIVOANTANANARIVO
                                                 Antsalova                                        ANTANANARIVOANTANANARIVO                                       TO
                                                                                                                                           Moramanga
                                                                                                                                           Moramanga
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I N D I A N
                                                                                  Soavinandriana
                                                                                  Soavinandriana          Tsiafajovona
                                                                                                           siafajovona
                                                                                                            (2,642 m)
                                                                                                            (2,642 m)
                                                                                                                                                                         Vatomandry
                                                               Miandrivazo
                                                               Miandrivazo                                   a                                                                                               O C E A N
                                        Belo Tsiribihina                                                                         Antanifotsy
                                                                                                                                 Antanifotsy
                                                              Tsiribihina                                                                        Mangoro
                                                                                                                                                                    Mahanoro
20S                                                                                                  AnkaratAntsirabe
                                                                                                            Antsirabe                                                                                                             20S
                                        Morondava             Malaimbandy
                                                              Malaimbandy                         Mania
                                                                                         Ambatofinan-
                                                                                         Ambatofinan-
                                                                                                 drahana
                                                                                                 drahana
                                                                                                                              Ambositra
                                                                                                                              Ambositra                         Varika


                                                       Mandabe
                                                       Mandabe                                                              Ambohimahasoa
                                                                                                                            Ambohimahasoa


                                              Manja
                                              Manja                                             FianarantsoaFianarantsoa                              Mananjary
                                                                                                                                                                                           0     40     80  120  160 200 Kilometers
                                                            Beroroha
                                                            Beroroha
                             Morombe                                           F I A N A R A N T S O A
                                                    Mangoky                                                                                                                                0        40         80   120 Miles

                                                                                                                                                 Manakara
                                                            Ankazoabo
                                                            Ankazoabo              Ihosy
                                                                                   Ihosy                      Pic Boby
                                                                                                              Pic Boby                                                                         50E
                                                                                                              (2,658 m)
                                                                                                              (2,658 m)
                                          T O L I A R A
                                                                                                                                       Farafangana
                                                                                                                                       FaraFara                                                MADAGASCAR
                                            Fiherechana                                                                                                         COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                        Sakaraha
                                                        Sakaraha                                              Mananara                                                                          PROJECT -
                                 Toliara                                       Betroka
                                                                               Betroka
                                                            Onilahy                                                                                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                              Betioky
                                              Betioky
                                                                                                    Midongy-
                                                                                                    Midongy-                                                                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                      Atsimo
                                                                                                      Atsimo
                                                                                          Tsivory
                                                                                               ivor                                                                                              PROVINCE (FARITANY) CAPITALS
                                                                       Berakete
                                                                       Berakete
This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
colors, denominations and                                      Ampanihy
                                                               Ampanihy                  Mandrave
any other information shown                                                   PlateAmboasary
                                                                                         au
on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                        Amboasar
the part of The World Bank                                    randra
                                                                  Androy                                                Tolanaro                25S
Group, any judgment on the             Androka
                                                                         Ambovombe
                                                                         Ambovombe                                                                                                               RAILROADS
legal status of any territory,                            MenaBeloha
                                                             Beloha
or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE (FARITANY) BOUNDARIES
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
boundaries.                                                      45E                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JULY 2006

