Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3498-2-MAG 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 6, 2006  
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3498-2 -MAG 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated September 6, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MADAGASCAR (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,200,000) 
(
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1
st
 and September 1
st
 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has: (i) updated the FID Administrative 
and Financial Manual to reflect the new chart of account and models of 
Project Reports, in a manner satisfactory to the Association and (ii) 
appointed external auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of the Project 
Agreement, under terms, conditions and terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association; 
(c) 
The relevant texts regulating the Project Implementing Entity have been 
updated in a manner satisfactory to the Association and members of its 
board of directors have been appointed; and 
(d) 
Staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association to 
be responsible for the technical supervision of activities under Part B.2 of 
the Project has been nominated by MDTA. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time in charge of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Antananarivo 101 
Madagascar 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
MEFB 
   22489 
Antananarivo 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Eulalie 
N. 
Ravelosoa 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
James 
P. 
Bond 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the improved use of, and 
satisfaction with, social and economic services provided thereunder amongst participating 
rural and urban communities. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Transfers of Funds to Community Associations
In rural communes: 
1. 
Appraisal, selection, implementation and supervision of social and economic 
infrastructure rehabilitation and development activities for the benefit of selected 
communities, and IEC activities, through the provision of grants to finance such activities 
or through the Project Implementing Entity as described in the Manual of Procedures; 
and 
2. 
Training of members of community associations in community participation and 
mobilization methods and in contracting, monitoring of construction and maintenance. 
Part B
:
Capacity Building Activities
1. 
In rural communes, training of elected officials and personnel of commune 
governments in community participation, mobilization and preparation of communal 
development plans, execution of Subprojects, basic accounting and fiscal budgeting at the 
local level, and procurement, implementation monitoring and maintenance. 
2. 
Provide capacity building support to MDTA, including through: (a) training of 
Communal Support Centers (
Centres
 d’Appui aux Communes
)
staff and the establishment 
and operating costs of eight CSC and; (b) the development of training modules on various 
themes (e.g. participatory planning, budget management, collection of fiscal revenues, 
monitoring and evaluation); (c) the training of deconcentrated and decentralized staff; (d) 
the development of a LDF database and monitoring and evaluation system, and (e) 
studies (e.g. a stocktaking of training for local development).  
Page  8
-
7
-
Part C
:
Transfers of Funds to Communes
In rural communes, appraisal, selection, implementation and supervision of social 
and economic infrastructure rehabilitation and development activities by communes, and 
provision of grants to finance such activities. 
Part D: 
Social Safety Nets (Shocks)
In both rural and urban communes, appraisal, selection, implementation and 
supervision of labor intensive social and economic infrastructure maintenance and 
rehabilitation activities to be undertaken by Eligible NGOs and Associations to provide 
employment opportunities for the poorest unskilled segment of the population, and 
provision of grants to finance such activities.  
Part E: 
Rehabilitation and reconstruction in response to natural disasters
In both rural and urban communes, appraisal, selection, implementation and 
supervision of reconstruction and rehabilitation of community infrastructure damaged by 
weather shocks, such as health facilities, schools, rural water supply and sanitation, 
feeder roads, bridges, markets, and administrative infrastructure, through the provision of 
grants to Beneficiaries or through the Project Implementing Entity, as described in the 
Manual of Procedures. Works must conform to Project Implementing Entity
’s regular 
anti-cyclone standards or standards that have received the prior approval of the Project 
Implementing Entity (in the case of NGO-executed contracts). 
Part F
:
Project Administration and Supervision
Provision of technical and advisory services, and material assistance, to support 
the administration and supervision activities of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including impact studies, salaries and fixed operating costs of the Project Implementing 
Entity, monitoring and evaluation, and financial and technical audits.
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out by the Project Implementing Entity of the Project, 
the
 
Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association, which shall include the following:  
a. 
The obligation of the Recipient to transfer the proceeds of the Credit, 
required for the implementation of the Project, to the Project 
Implementing Entity on a non-reimbursable grant basis, and otherwise to 
take all action necessary to permit the Project Implementing Entity to 
carry out the Project and ensure the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
b. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to promptly inform the 
Recipient of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with 
the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
c. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity, at the request of the 
Recipient, to exchange views with the Recipient with regard to the 
progress of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and 
the Project Implementing Entity's performance of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement and Procedures Manual. 
d. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the Project 
in accordance with this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary 
Agreement and Procedures Manual, and at all times to ensure that only 
Subprojects that comply with the Subsidiary Agreement and Procedures 
Manual will be financed from the proceeds of the Credit. 
e. 
The obligation of the Recipient to ensure that its ministries and 
departments responsible for reviewing the AWP shall provide their 
comments in respect of said AWP within a reasonable period of time after 
receipt thereof. 
Page  10
-
9
-
f. 
The mutual obligation of the Recipient and the Project Implementing 
Entity to comply with the Environmental Procedures Manual and to take 
steps to ensure that: (a) in the event of the existence of any potential 
adverse environmental effects arising from the implementation of any 
Subproject, the environmental action plan shall be carried out in a manner 
acceptable to the Association and monitored on a regular basis by both the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity; and (b) adequate 
operational procedures shall be maintained at all times to enable both the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate, 
on a regular basis and based on indicators acceptable to the Association, 
the prompt carrying out of the environmental action plan. 
g. 
The obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to promptly refund to 
the Recipient any proceeds from the Credit not used for purposes of 
carrying out the Project or for achieving the objectives thereof, or 
otherwise utilized in a manner which does not comply with the provisions 
of this Agreement or the Project Agreement. 
h. 
A provision stipulating that, in case of conflict between any of the 
provisions contained in the Subsidiary Agreement or Procedures Manual, 
on the one hand, and those set forth in this Agreement and the Project 
Agreement, on the other, the provisions of this Agreement and the Project 
Agreement shall at all times prevail. 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, arrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement of any of its provisions. 
B.
 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, the Project Implementing Entity with a Board of Directors with 
composition and function satisfactory to the Association, including 
representatives from the civil society. The Board of Directors shall be responsible 
for providing overall support, strategic guidance, approving annual work and 
budget for implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that MDTA maintains staff with appropriate 
experience and qualification to be responsible for the technical supervision of 
activities to be carried out under Part B.2 of the Project. 
Page  11
-
10
-
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that MDTA submits to the Association’s approval an 
eighteen month training plan, including a budget. 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that all concerned ministries provide their comment to 
the AWP within 30 days from its submission. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the 
end of the period covered by such report. The first Project Report shall cover the 
period between the Effective Date and December 31, following that date. 
(b) 
The key performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following, by the completion of the Project:  
(i) 
A minimum of 80% utilization of designed capacity for:  
·
Enrollment in primary schools (measured by the number 
of student per classroom); 
·
Visits to health centers (measured by the increase in the 
number of visits); 
·
Markets (measured by the proportion of stalls in 
operation); 
·
Water supply sources (measured by the increase in the 
number of users of potable water schemes); 
·
Usage of rehabilitated roads (measured by the increase 
in the number of vehicles per week). 
(ii) 
80% of Project supported infrastructures are maintained and 
operating adequately; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(iii) 
75% of mayors and communal staff are satisfied with 
performance of the Communal Support Center.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar semester, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering 
the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. The first un-
audited financial report shall cover the period between the Effective Date and 
December 31, following that date.  
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c ) Community Participation 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, con
sultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least Cost
 
(b) Single Source Selection 
(c) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.16 and 3.21 of 
Consultant Guidelines for the selection of NGOs and 
Service delivery contractors 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  15
-
14
-
Categories 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1) Goods, works 
 
consultants’ 
 services 
and 
 grants 
 
(a) under Part B.2(a) 
 
of the Project 
(b) others 
350,000 
11,850,000 
100% and 100% of amounts 
disbursed as regards Grants 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,200,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made (a) for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, or (b) for 
Eligible Expenditures under Category 1 (a) above unless the manual referred to 
in Section V.A of this Schedule satisfactory to the Association has been 
submitted by the Recipient, and the CSC legally established pursuant to the laws 
of the Recipient.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30 2008. 
Section V 
Other Undertakings
A. 
No later than three months from the Date of Effectiveness, the Recipient 
shall have submitted for the Association’s review an implementation manual 
for CSCs setting forth their legal status, composition and rules of operation, 
and administrative and financial procedures, including a proposed work plan 
and monitoring and evaluation plan. 
B. 
No later than November 30, 2006, the Project Implementing Entity shall have 
recruited a Project impact evaluation specialist with experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 1
s
t
and September 1
s
t
:
commencing September 1
st
,
2016, to and including 
March 1
st
,
2026 
1% 
commencing September 1
st
,
2026, to and including 
March 1
st
,
2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“AWP” means annual work plan, the work plan to be prepared and submitted 
yearly by the Project’s Implementing Entity for the Recipient’s and the 
Association’s approval, as set forth in the Procedures Manual.  
2. 
“Beneficiary” means beneficiary of a Grant. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Communal Support Centers” and “CSC” means centers for the facilitation of 
capacity building for Communes to be legally established pursuant to the laws of 
the Recipient. 
5. 
“Commune” means a political sub-division of a Province.  
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
7. 
“Dollar” and “$” mean the currency of the United States of America. 
8. 
“Eligible NGOs and Associations” means NGOs and associations established and 
operating pursuant to the laws of the Recipient and deemed eligible pursuant to 
the Manual of Procedures to carry out Sub Projects under Part E of the Project. 
9. 
“Environmental Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted in July 2005 
describing procedures and mechanisms for the appraisal of environmental 
impacts under the Project as well as measures to be implemented for their 
mitigation. 
10. 
“FID Administrative and Financial Manual” means the manual adopted by FID 
setting forth its administrative and financial arrangements and procedures.  
11. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means any 12-month period beginning on January 1 and 
ending on December 31. 
Page  18
-
17
-
12. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
13. 
“Grant” means a grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds of the Credit to 
finance a Subproject. 
14. 
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement to e entered into for the purpose of 
extending a Grant. 
15. 
“IEC” means information, education and communications. 
16. 
“LDF” means Local Development Fund to be legally established pursuant to the 
laws of the Recipient for the purpose of making funds for development and 
capacity building available to Communes. 
17. 
“MDTA” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of decentralization and 
territorial administration established pursuant to Decree Nr 2005-144 dated 
March 17, 2005 “
portant remaniement de la composition des membres du 
Gouvernement
”. 
18. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Community Development Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated May 22, 2001, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit No 3498 
MAG). 
19. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
20. 
“Procedures Manual” means the Manual adopted for the purpose of the Original 
Project setting forth procedural arrangements for the review, appraisal, 
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, of Subprojects, including procedures 
for submission and review of requests for financing, criteria for the review and 
approval of Subprojects, and approval of Grants, applicable procurement, 
disbursement and other implementation guidelines, and model forms of Grant 
Agreements. 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 9, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Page  19
-
18
-
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
23. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and the 
Project Implementing Entity of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
24. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means FID or 
Fonds d’Intervention pour le 
Développement
,
the Recipient
’s Community Development Fund, a not-for-profit 
association serving the public interest (
association à but non lucratif reconnue 
d'intérêt public
). 
25. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the Recipient’s 
Décret
 No. 
93-044, dated January 24, 1993, as well as its bylaws dated June 23, 2003 and any 
subsequent change as may be agreed upon by the Association. 
26. 
“Province” means any one or more of the six main political sub-divisions of the 
Recipient’s territory. 
27. 
“Subproject” means any activity under Part A.1, Part C, Part D or Part E of the 
Project, in respect of which a Grant has been, or may be, provided. 
28. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity.
 
