                Document of
              The World Bank




                                             Report No: 30189

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (TF-28310)

                   ON A

GRANT FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY

      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION

                  TO THE

  FUNDO BRASILEIRO PARA A BIODIVERSIDADE

                  FOR A

BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND PROJECT - FUNBIO




               October 13, 2004

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 1995)

                                   Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                         R$ 1.00 = US$ 1.10
                                        US$ 1.00 = R$ 0.91
                              Rate at Completion US$ 1.00 = R$ 2.96
                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1    December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CNPq     Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnológico (National Council for Scientific and
         Technological Development)
FGV      Fundacao Getulio Vargas (Getulio Vargas Foundation)
FINEP    Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (Agency for Financing of Studies and Projects)
FNMA     Fundo Nacional do Meio Ambiente (National Environment Fund)
FUNBIO   Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade (Brazilian Biodiversity Fund)
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GOB      Government of Brazil
IBAMA    Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovaveis (Brazilian Institute for the
         Environment and Renewable Natural Resources)
MMA      Ministerio do Meio Ambiente, dos Recursos Hidricos e da Amaz6nia Legal (Ministry of the
         Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon)
MPO      Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento (Ministry of Planning and Budget)
NEP      National Environmental Project (PNMA) (Loan No. 3173-BR)
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PNMA     Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente (National Environmental Project ­ NEP)
POA      Plano Operativo Anual (Annual Operating Plan)
PROBIO   Projeto de Conservacao e Utilizacao Sustentavel da Diversidade Biológica Brasileira (National
         Biodiversity Project)
PRONABIO Programa Nacional da Diversidade Biológica (National Program for Biological Diversity)



                                  Vice President:     David De Ferranti
                                 Country Director     Vinod Thomas
                                  Sector Director     John Redwood
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Musa Asad

                                           BRAZIL
                        Brazilian Biodiversity Fund - FUNBIO (GEF)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P044597                                                  Project Name: Brazilian Biodiversity Fund - FUNBIO
                                                                     (GEF)
Team Leader: Musa S. C. Asad                                         TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 13, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Brazilian Biodiversity Fund - FUNBIO (GEF)               L/C/TF Number: TF-28310
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (80%); Central
                            government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Participation and civic engagement (P);
                            Environmental policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/15/1991                                     Effective: 09/05/1996                09/05/1996
     Appraisal: 03/20/1995                                         MTR: 09/23/1999                  09/23/1999
      Approval: 04/16/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 02/28/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FUNDO BRASILEIRO PARA A BIODIVERSIDADE/FUNBIO
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shavid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind Nankani
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:             Musa Asad                                      Claudia Sobrevila
ICR Primary Author:             Musa Asad; Ruth Norris; Paula
                                Freitas


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project's global objective was to provide long-term and sustainable
support for conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity in Brazil, supporting and promoting
partnership among government, nonprofit organizations, academic institutions, and the private business
sector.

This goal was pursued by supporting the establishment and development of a Brazilian Biodiversity Fund
(FUNBIO) to administer a long-term grants program to promote conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity in Brazil. Because of the difficulties involved in transfer of funds from the government to the
private sector in Brazil, the project was designed to support the development of this fund in a private
institution. Originally, the host was the Getulio Vargas Foundation; after three years of incubation there,
FUNBIO became an independent institution and formally assumed the resources and obligations of the
project.

This goal is complementary to the goals of the National Biodiversity Project (NEP) prepared concurrently
with this project, which supported the Government of Brazil's National Biodiversity Program
(PRONABIO) and its operating unit, PROBIO. The two projects were designed with strong linkages.
FUNBIO was expected to use the priorities defined and adopted by PRONABIO for its planning process,
and PRONABIO was expected to use the FUNBIO mechanism for at least some of its grantmaking. The
Ministry of Environment would be represented on both FUNBIO's Board of Directors and PRONABIO's
Coordinating Commission.

Specific objectives of the FUNBIO project included (i) creation of adequate institutional capacity for the
Fund; (ii) assuring the financial effectiveness of the mechanism; (iii) establishing an adequate legal
framework for the operation of the Fund; and (iv) demonstrating the trust fund as a mechanism for
biodiversity conservation in Brazil through the achievement of six identified benchmarks.

Institutional capacity is defined as the establishment of key governing and operational units, including the
Board of Directors, Executive Secretariat, and Technical committees; application and periodic updating of
an Operational Manual; timely and adequate preparation of annual operating plans; effective project
selection in accordance with the Operational Manual; efficient disbursement processes; development of a
fundraising strategy; maintenance of administrative costs within defined limits; compliance with
procurement guidelines; and satisfactory annual audits. Financial effectiveness is defined as adherence to
investment guidelines and spending rules limiting capital draw-down to $3 million per year. An adequate
legal framework means that the fund is protected from attachment and taxation, and faces no legal barriers
to effective operation. Benchmarks for measuring the Fund's success as a mechanism for biodiversity
conservation were established in each of the following areas.

a.       Fund-raising success
b.       Financial effectiveness
c.       Public-private sector partnerships
d.       Government commitment
e.       Biodiversity impact
f.       Social impact

3.2 Revised Objective:



                                                      - 2 -

No revisions were made to the project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had two major components:

Strengthening and Operational Support of FUNBIO (22% of total project costs). This component included
operational costs, including establishment of a board and technical committees, staffing, development of a
cost-recovery and fund-raising program, and special studies that would analyze trends and innovations with
potential to contribute to FUNBIO's development of successful strategies.

Grants Program (78% of total project costs). FUNBIO funds projects consistent with regional and national
conservation priorities and international commitments, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity and
Agenda 21, selected on a competitive basis according to established criteria. The design established that
projects would address: (i) biodiversity conservation; (ii) sustainable use of biodiversity; (iii) policy
analysis; and (iv) applied research and technology development. Eligible entities include NGOs, state and
municipal businesses and public agencies; private businesses (with certain restrictions); non-profit or
research institutions; and consortia of the above. The detailed procedures to call, select, contract, and
monitor the sub-projects are spelled out in FUNBIO's Operational Manual.

Financing of project activities came from the GEF Trust Fund Grant (US$20 million) and funds raised by
FUNBIO (projected at US$5 million), organized as a sinking fund with a 15-year horizon and managed by
an internationally qualified asset manager. The GEF Trust Fund deposited an initial US$10 million into the
sinking fund account. Additional GEF Trust Fund deposits into the fund were triggered by donations to the
fund raised by FUNBIO at a ratio of two (GEF Trust Fund) to one (non-GEF Trust Fund). The funds
could be raised in tranches, US$250,000 at a time, each tranche triggering a new release of funds from
GEF Trust Fund until all GEF funding was committed. The sinking fund was expected to generate an
approximate net investment of US$9.5 million. Funding recipients were also required to contribute
financially to the costs of projects (at least 25 %).

Project implementation is the responsibility of FUNBIO, established as an operating unit of the Getulio
Vargas Foundation, and the implementing entities selected to carry out sub-projects. Day-to-day
administration of FUNBIO was entrusted to an Executive Director and a small operating unit. FUNBIO
contracted an internationally qualified asset manager to administer funds in an offshore investment account,
for a fee in accordance with standard practice (e.g., 1-1.5%) paid out of the fund's investment proceeds.

FUNBIO identified projects through open calls for proposals. Technical review committees were
established to evaluate applications according to selection criteria. The design envisioned close coordination
between FUNBIO and the implementation unit of the parallel national environmental project, PROBIO,
using FUNBIO as a mechanism to call for and select sub-project proposals for funding by both entities.
Agreements reached included a plan for biannual supervision missions and commitment to periodic
reporting and evaluation. The Executive Director of FUNBIO would prepare Annual Operating Plans
(POA) including a statement of specific objectives, a description of the activities, expected outputs,
monitorable indicators, detailed estimated budgets and procurement plans. The Executive Director would
submit quarterly progress reports. FUNBIO and its program would be subject to two evaluations to assess
implementation progress, after three years and after five years.

3.4 Revised Components:



                                                     - 3 -

No revisions were made to the project components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Occupying nearly half the South American Continent, Brazil has a wide range of ecologically differentiated
biogeographical zones (biomes). These include the world's largest standing tropical rain forest (Amazonian
and Atlantic forests), the world's largest inland wetland (Pantanal), expanses of semi-arid thorn forests
(caatinga), vast tree and scrub woodlands (cerrado), and more than 7,000 linear kilometers of coastal and
marine ecosystems. Intervention in previously stable habitats has increased, leading to significant loss of
biodiversity. The Brazilian Government has addressed the loss of biodiversity through an emergency
program removing fiscal incentives for ranching in primary forest areas of the Amazon, intensified federal
efforts to control forest burning; a National Environmental Project (NEP) strengthening the federal
environmental protection agency (IBAMA), supporting protected areas and state and local environmental
management; establishment of a long-term financing mechanism for conservation, and the G-7 Pilot
Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest.

Outside the public sector, important institutions devoted to biodiversity conservation have evolved as well.
Hundreds of NGOs are active at the national and local level. To catalyze NGO efforts, the Government
created the National Environment Fund (FNMA) in 1988 to support communities and local governments
carrying out conservation or sustainable development projects. Brazilian corporations have begun to take
greater responsibility in the environmental area, mitigating negative impacts on biodiversity and requesting
that government and private groups develop standard methodologies that could assist them in the
certification of their products as environmentally sound. A few private firms are marketing sustainably
produced products. In the mid-1990s, the Government launched additional efforts to work closely with
NGOs by supporting projects through the NEP and the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain
Forest.

Nevertheless, in the mid-1990s, conservation efforts among and within Brazil's main biomes remained
uneven. Access to biodiversity information and participation by local communities and NGOs in
government projects was limited, and there were few public-private partnerships to sustain biodiversity. To
address these needs, the government established the National Program for Biological Diversity
(PRONABIO) in 1994 to promote partnerships between the public and private sectors to support the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. The GEF-supported National Biodiversity Project,
designed and implemented in parallel and in coordination with the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project, was
developed to strengthen the activities of PRONABIO.

Individuals and institutions involved in the design of the National Biodiversity Project and the Brazilian
Biodiversity Fund Project recognized that additional steps were needed to maximize biodiversity
conservation efforts. These included addressing financial difficulties, including the following: (i) an
emphasis on short-term funding that created a lack of continuity and frequently caused termination of
projects before their intended results could be realized; (ii) project funding rarely geared to the absorptive
capacity of implementing agencies and organizations, and hampered by the Government's administrative
constraints; (iii) the Government's limited ability to channel funds to private organizations; and (iv) limited
leveraging of additional funds for biodiversity from domestic private sources. In light of these constraints, it
was evident that a trust fund could be an effective mechanism for guaranteeing a long-term financial
commitment, overcoming government and donor agency budget fluctuations, matching financial flows to
absorptive capacity, and leveraging new funds from a broad array of sources.




                                                      - 4 -

This proposed approach was consistent with the Government's and the Bank's desire to search for new
approaches to conserving and sustainably using Brazil's rich biological heritage, that did not rely
exclusively on public sector conservation units and that could be partially insulated from the restrictive
public sector budgetary cycle and procedures. The Brazilian/Bank project teams considered several
options. The option of using an existing Government fund such as the FNMA was discarded due to the
perception that the funds belong to the government and are therefore fungible with other government
revenue, possibly making some donors (especially the private sector) hesitant to contribute. The lack of
specific legislation in Brazil for creating a trust fund, a mechanism used successfully in several other GEF
projects, and the need for a flexible administrative structure that would operate independently,
transparently, and sustainably justified the use of a private non-profit foundation under the Brazilian civil
code. It was decided that the most effective solution was to use an existing private foundation. The Getulio
Vargas Foundation (FGV) was chosen to house an independent fund, the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund
(FUNBIO). Because of legal restrictions on the transfer of funds by the Brazilian Treasury to private
entities (even non-profit foundations), the comprehensive project originally envisioned to support both
FUNBIO and the PRONABIO program was divided into two complementary projects with separate grant
agreements. The National Biodiversity Project provided US$10 million to the Government of Brazil in
support of PRONABIO, and the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project provided US$20 million to
FGV/FUNBIO.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project achieved approximately 90% of the objectives established at design, and all of the objectives
and benchmarks were achieved at least for the most part. An effective institution was created, finances
were effectively managed, an adequate legal framework is in place, and there is evidence of substantial
progress in leveraging additional funds, creating public-private partnerships, engaging NGOs and local
communities, and demonstrating effective mechanisms, through the sub-projects, of developing local
community commitment and skills for long-term sustainable management of biodiversity resources.
FUNBIO is today recognized as a national leader in promoting and supporting conservation of biodiversity,
as evidenced by a recent survey of opinion leaders (NGOs, donors, media). These individuals ranked
FUNBIO equally or more important than key national government agencies, national and international
NGOs in terms of its leadership role in biodiversity conservation, innovation, seriousness and competence,
transparency, and potential for growth. At an international level, FUNBIO is recognized as one of the most
successful of the GEF-financed trust funds, especially in terms of the quality and contributions of its board
of directors, the professionalism of its staff, the efficiency of its procedures, and its thoughtful and
innovative approach to developing program themes and creative financing methods.

A specific target for the extent of biodiversity to be conserved by the project was not set during the design
phase, and even today, Brazil's national environmental agencies continue to struggle to develop clear
conservation objectives and monitorable benchmarks toward their achievement. Thus, while it is possible
to conclude that FUNBIO's supported projects have had, or promise to have, conservation outcomes
consistent with the level of investment, it is impossible to quantify the contribution of this project to
conserving Brazil's biodiversity. It may well be that the knowledge generated, technologies and methods
developed, and engagement of leaders from various sectors of Brazilian society contribute more in the long
run to conservation of biodiversity than the specific project activities taken one by one and in the aggregate.




                                                        - 5 -

The level of synergy and coordinated impacts from this project and the companion National Environment
Project was less than what was foreseen by the project designers. There were many reasons for this,
including the length of time required at the national government level to develop national biodiversity
priorities (finalized in 2003), the physical distance between FUNBIO, located in Rio de Janeiro and MMA
in Brasilia, and the many demands on the time of small administrative units working at and beyond
capacity simply to manage operational responsibilities. Although there has recently been significant
progress in national efforts to systematize national conservation priorities and define roles and niches for
specific actors, FUNBIO operated for most of the project period without this strategic framework to orient
its actions. Interestingly, FUNBIO met this challenge by developing priorities along thematic rather than
geographic lines, choosing specific types of conservation challenges in which it sought to advance the state
of the art. Although this was not a specific objective articulated in the project design, it is an important
outcome supporting the classification of the project as a success.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Establishment of an effective and credible institution. FUNBIO is governed by a diverse and highly
qualified Board of Directors, representing the nonprofit, business, governmental, and academic sectors,
who participate actively in the governance of the organization and in establishing policies that assure
FUNBIO's resources will be used strategically to achieve the organization's mission, and that its
operations will be transparent, fair, and grounded in the best practices of grantmaking and organizational
management. Seven Technical Commissions contribute specialized analysis and expertise. FUNBIO is
staffed by a qualified team of 23 professionals with leadership from an executive who has been
internationally recognized among the most effective executives of conservation trust funds, and who has
also played a leadership role in the regional organization of trust funds, RedLAC. Operational manuals
and procedures, as well as manuals for grantees, reflect FUNBIO's learning and its continuous efforts to
sharpen its strategic focus. Disbursements to project implementers, and compliance with monitoring and
reporting requirements, have been timely and efficient. FUNBIO has consistently met its targets for
administrative cost ceilings and has been audited annually with no adverse findings. Procurement has
followed Bank guidelines.

FUNBIO has exceeded the established benchmark for raising counterpart funds, having secured $6.2
million in commitments from funding partners in the governmental, business, nonprofit, and philanthropic
sectors. These funds, like the GEF capital, are sinking funds.

The decision to establish FUNBIO within an existing institution had both positive and negative outcomes.
Early supervision missions indicated a need for closer supervision of the investment portfolio and more
active commitment to additional fundraising than FGV was able to provide. After three years, FUNBIO
and FGV agreed that FUNBIO should become an independent organization. The Foundation requested the
Bank to authorize its relinquishing of its role. FUNBIO was incorporated as an independent organization,
and has operated independently since 2000. The Bank entered into a new Grant Agreement with FUNBIO.
FGV transferred the capital to the new organization, which adopted the same name, functions and
obligations that it had assumed as a unit of FGV.

Financial management. Investment guidelines have been developed and implemented, and capital has been
managed in such a way as to be consistent with the absorptive capacity of project implementers and to
assure continuity of funding over time. Lessons learned in the early years have been incorporated in several
ways: by developing additional in-house expertise for oversight of investment management; by selecting an
asset manager more suited to FUNBIO's size and needs than the London-based firm originally selected;



                                                      - 6 -

and by using national as well as international investment portfolios to maximize returns and balance risk.
(Of the GEF funds, only funds to be disbursed in the current year are invested nationally, but other donor
accounts are held in the Brazilian portfolio.) Capital draw-down has been kept within the established
limits.

Legal framework. The fund is protected from attachment and taxation, and faces no legal barriers to
effective operation. FUNBIO has qualified for tax-exempt status.

Creation of an effective mechanism for biodiversity conservation. Achievement of the six identified
benchmarks was as follows.

a. Fund-raising success: As noted above, FUNBIO reached its capitalization targets. Among the key
    sources of funds are the Partnership Funds Program which has provided over $ 3.5 million in funding
    or 65% of total project costs. Some of the most notable national partner institutions include: the Terra
    Institute, the CSN Foundation, Klabin Parana Forest Products, the Minas Gerais Power Company, the
    Institute of Ecological Research and the Caatinga Association. (Costello, 2003) Since 1999, the Ford
    Foundation has also participated in this program. Counterpart funding from project implementers has
    met the target of 25%. FUNBIO's board contributed to the development of the funding strategy by
    helping to develop concepts and strategies for "selling" the matching fund program to prospective
    partners, which in several cases were their own agencies or associated organizations.

b. Financial effectiveness: FUNBIO's assets have been affected by the economic downturn that began in
    2000, and the internationally invested GEF funding portfolio has not met the benchmark for return on
    investment. After achieving returns averaging 12.2% through the end of 1999, the internationally
    invested portfolio had three years of losses averaging 7.6% per year before beginning to earn positive
    returns again in 2003. The national investment portfolios, although considered riskier, recovered sooner
    and have yielded substantially higher returns in recent years. Indeed, returns from national investments
    were almost sufficient to cover operating costs in 2003. FUNBIO did not have adequate investment
    management expertise and advice in its early years, and perhaps could have taken better advantage of
    the strong investment markets of the mid-to-late 1990s if it had, but over time has developed a more
    solid knowledge base and circle of advisers.

c. Public-private sector partnerships: The active participation of non-governmental and governmental
    sectors on the Governing Council and technical committees is one of FUNBIO's great strengths. As
    noted in an independent assessment of FUNBIO carried out in 2003, beyond what these experts bring
    in terms of technical leadership in environment and sustainable development, the Council is well
    positioned to help promote new business relationships. Any new relationship which implies new
    technical areas of work or an expanded presence in a geographic area can be approved by the Council,
    which may take the necessary steps to insure that these technical areas receive the required human and
    financial resources.

    Public and private sector actors who have been engaged as partners and suporters of conservation
    projects include the National Steel Company, the Terra Institute, Klabin Parana forest products, Minas
    Gerais Power Company, and the Brazilian Tourism Institute among others Organizations implementing
    funded projects also represent a diverse cross-section of Brazilian society. 57% of recipients are
    NGOs, 25% community associations and cooperatives, 14% businesses, and 4% governmental
    organizations. FUNBIO has been especially effective in promoting public-private partnerships through
    its matching grant (partnership) program. Representatives of NGO, academic, business, and
    government sectors have participated in technical committees and governing bodies, as well as project


                                                     - 7 -

   implementing organizations and consortia.

d. Government commitment: The target set at project design was active participation by government in
   FUNBIO's board, support of its fund-raising efforts with bilateral and multilateral donors and
   debt-for-nature transactions, and good working relationships between FUNBIO and PROBIO.
   Although the Ministry of Environment representatives participate actively in the board, and working
   relationships are good, the collaborative relationship envisioned at design has not fully developed, for
   several reasons. FUNBIO needed some distance from the governmental projects in order to be credible
   with its private sector constituents. FUNBIO's project cycles at times proved incompatible with
   governmental cycles and schedules. Physical distance also constrained the two organizations' ability to
   work closely together (FUNBIO was established at FGV in Rio de Janeiro, while PROBIO is in
   Brasilia), as did the limits on staff in relation to workload in both organizations. At a strategic level,
   the close working relationship envisioned in the design depended on swift establishment of clear
   national priorities for biodiversity conservation. These were not actually decreed until 2003, seven
   years after the project was initiated. FUNBIO's portfolio remains a small element in the national
   panorama of conservation priorities and financing.

e. Biodiversity impact. Funded projects were expected to result in decreases in biodiversity loss,
   deforestation, poaching, and protected area encroachment. FUNBIO has supported some 68 projects,
   focusing mainly on the themes of non-timber forest management (21%), agrobiodiversity (44%),
   management of fishery resources (14%) and conservation and environmental education (16%).
   FUNBIO's grantmaking partnership with the Ford Foundation, as well as individual projects supported
   in partnership with other donors and implementing agencies, focuses on small and medium scale
   initiatives in non-timber products, community forest management and agrobiodiversity An ecotourism
   program launched in 2000 focuses on identification and promotion of practices in tourism development
   and management that support rather than destroy the survival of ecosystems and habitats. FUNBIO's
   Strategic Studies Program has provided analytical input into both these areas while guiding the
   operations of the Executive Secretariat and informing the Governing Council with the analytical bases
   for decision making.

   FUNBIO requires all of its projects to identify objectives and outcomes with specific reference to
   conservation as well as social and economic results. Monitoring by the implemented agencies and by
   FUNBIO has documented the adoption of improved agricultural practices, management plans for local
   forest units, creation of forest corridors, and development of sustainable management plans for coastal
   resources. Increased involvement by communities in agro-extractive activities and increased income
   from sustainable production of natural resources as an alternative to predatory practices has also been
   verified, through an independent assessment of FUNBIO carried out in 2003 as well as through
   FUNBIO's own monitoring. Because each project has its own units of engagement and specific
   objectives, and all are responsible for reporting results not just to FUNBIO but also to the other
   funding partners, there are not yet indicators or consistent units of measure that can be used to
   aggregate project outcomes into simple measures such as counting hectares of pristine ecosystems
   conserved or degraded ecosystems improved. The results of FUNBIO-supported projects have
   contributed to improved methodologies being developed and applied on a scale broader than FUNBIO's
   own portfolio.

   One example is the business plan methodology used in FUNBIO's Sustainable Production Support
   Program (PAPS). This has shown that by analyzing the project executor's environmental
   sustainability, economic feasibility, and management capability and the market characteristics
   associated with these projects, improve alternative livelihood projects' prospects for success are


                                                       - 8 -

     improved. The methodology developed by FUNBIO and published as part of its Strategic Studies
     program responds to a larger need in the field of sustainable use of biodiversity ­ that is, to focus not
     solely on extraction and production, but to focus as well on the elements of commercialization and
     marketing that will spell success or failure to the enterprise, and on establishing strong links between
     the conservation and productive aspects of sustainable use projects.

f. Social impact: The benchmark, evidence of active involvement by local organizations in decisions
     about the allocation of resources to grants and sub-projects, was met. In addition, FUNBIO's
     monitoring data indicates that several thousand families have participated in the development of
     resource management strategies involving both conservation and enhanced income from sustainable
     production.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No Net Present Value or Economic Rate of Return was calculated at appraisal. Annex 3 provides some
indicative information about project's economic costs and benefits at appraisal and closing.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

At the time of appraisal, there was no requirement to include calculations of economic and financial rates
of returns. Thus, no benchmark or baseline figures were established, and these rates cannot be calculated
precisely as of the date of the ICR. Although return on individual project investments has not been
calculated, a consortium of three sustainable agriculture projects is developing a methodology for
calculating economic values of conversions from massive, mechanized production to organic and
sustainable production, at the level of household economies.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The strategic objective to develop an institution that could provide stable, long-term financing to
biodiversity and sustainable use activities was achieved. FUNBIO as an institution has developed many
talents and strategic abilities, including extensive skills in investment portfolio management, participatory
methods for identifying and supporting projects, administrative systems, and advances in program
monitoring in accordance with objectives. Many organizations now look to FUNBIO as among the most
qualified, innovative, and serious Brazilian intermediary organization. Having access to this flexible
funding, and FUNBIO's excellent technical support capacity, has increased the institutional success of its
grantees and partners as well. FUNBIO's value to the international donor community was underscored by
its selection to manage financial aspects of the Amazon Protected Areas Project (ARPA). These findings
are consistent with the conclusions of an independent assessment conducted in 2003, which concluded that
FUNBIO overall had built a solid track record, noting also that monitoring and evaluation capability,
including dissemination of lessons, could be improved, and that potential new ventures into carbon
sequestration projects, for example, would require the development of additional technical skills. The report
(Costello, 2003) also noted that there are several additional Bank and GEF-supported projects that could
benefit from drawing on FUNBIO's expertise.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Fluctuations in investment markets strongly affected FUNBIO's ability to meet income benchmarks and
assure that the flow of funds to project could be maintained at a level of $2.5-$3 million per year. To some



                                                       - 9 -

extent these conditions could be mitigated by developing more aggressive investment strategies (and
developing the knowledge needed to manage risk in a more aggressive strategy) and creating balance in the
portfolio through diversified national and overseas investment.

The project design over-estimated the ability of a private Brazilian foundation, especially one with no
endowment capital of its own to start, to raise significant matching capital. The project design considered
this to be mostly a question of level of effort, and thus subject to control, but the number of potential
sources of long-term capital is in fact quite limited, as most of the trust funds established with GEF funding
during the mid-to-late 1990s have discovered. Debt-for-nature swaps did not prove to be an appropriate
mechanism. The largest international foundations, mostly based in the US, face tax and legal constraints in
making endowment contributions to foreign entities, and with only a few exceptions, refrain as a matter of
policy from making this kind of contribution. This is even more true since the economic downturn, when
many of the largest foundations, including the only three known to date to have made endowment
contributions to environmental funds, have lost up to 50% of the value of their assets. Brazil does not have
a well developed national philanthropy, except in the areas of religious charity. Even for those Brazilian
individuals and corporations potentially inclined to give to FUNBIO's activities, it was necessary to build a
record of success first, in order to convince corporate boards that their funds would be well invested.
FUNBIO addressed this difficulty with a creative approach ­ developing a partnership program through
which it co-financed projects involving a minimum 50 percent contribution by the financing partners ­
primarily private and corporate foundations, and businesses. This resulted in significant leveraging of
funds, and met the criteria for release of the remaining GEF capital, but did little to contribute to long-term
financial sustainability, since the partners' contributions, like FUNBIO's, end at the completion of the
project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Since the beginning of project's implementation, the Government agreed to delegate responsibility entirely
to FUNBIO and they maintained a seat at FUNBIO's Board of Directors.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Strong leadership and commitment to the project objectives by FUNBIO's staff and board, as well as by
the implementing partners, was a major contributor to the project's success. The selection of the Getulio
Vargas Foundation as the original host of the project contributed to the early acceptance and organization
of the Fund, but as time went on, it became apparent that the needs and expectations of the Fund and the
host were not compatible. This was addressed by establishing FUNBIO as an independent organization in
2000. In hindsight, the original decision was probably correct, given the alternatives available, but a plan
for eventual independence might have been put into place from the start.

Delays in the development of national biodiversity conservation priorities and benchmarks inhibited
FUNBIO's ability to develop a strategic focus, define the niche within which it would contribute to the
achievement of overall biodiversity conservation goals, and select indicators of progress.

Under-estimation of the levels of time, knowledge, and skill required to manage an investment portfolio, or
to supervise the performance of an asset manager, may have limited FUNBIO's ability to maximize
investment returns in the early years when markets were strong, and to minimize losses during the
downturn.

5.4 Costs and financing:



                                                      - 10 -

The Brazil Biodiversity Fund Project was designed to provide a mechanism for stable, long-term financing
of conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. It was one of the grants awarded as part of the GEF's
Pilot Phase, and designed during the period 1991-1995. Appraisal was conducted in 1995, and
effectiveness was September 5, 1996. Financing from the World Bank/GEF totaled $20 million. Since
effectiveness, FUNBIO has supported more than 65 conservation and sustainable development projects,
and expects to continue to support projects with matching funding from the Project through 2011.

Cofinancing totaled $6.2 million, in the form of matching funds contributed by partners including the Ford
Foundation, Brazilian government agencies, and NGO and business organizations and consortia. In
addition, the project has generated $1.5 million in net investment returns. Inflows of cofinancing and
investment returns are expected to continue through the rest of the project's lifespan (6-8 years). The GEF
investment portfolio's value at the time the ICR was prepared was $9.6 million, not including an additional
disbursement of $1.9 million deposited in February 2004. See Annex 3 for additional information on
project's costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's outcomes are likely to be sustainable.

At the level of supported subprojects, there is substantial evidence that social and conservation outcomes
will be sustainable. This can be attributed to the continuing involvement of partners implementing the
projects beyond the FUNBIO funding period; and, in the sustainable production projects, the focus on
simple, appropriate technologies that benefiting communities can easily maintain and from which they can
clearly realize benefits. There is also evidence that intellectual and knowledge resources generated by the
project will continue to contribute to sustainable use of biological resources on an ongoing basis. Many
other donors are adopting business planning as a standard feature of sustainable production projects. The
code of conduct for bioprospecting was influential in the development of a provisional national policy
regulating access to and exploitation of genetic resources, as required by the Convention on Biological
Diversity. Individual projects are developing methods for assessing and valuing sustainable uses, which
should be more broadly applicable after their initial period of field testing.

At the institutional level, sustainability is assured for another decade or so, as FUNBIO continues to attract
matching funds for projects supported by the GEF donation, takes on financial management responsibilities
in the GEF-Financed Amazon Protected Areas Project (ARPA), and launches a new program of integrated
project funding in which support from various partners can be pooled in creative matches that permit
significant program support with relatively low percentages of input by FUNBIO. In the long term,
however, FUNBIO's sustainability as an institution, and its ability to maintain a staff of highly qualified
personnel capable of advancing the state of the art of conservation finance and sustainable use projects in
addition to administering funds, depends on having the kind of institutional permanence and flexibility that
only a reserve of working capital can afford. FUNBIO's power as a convener, coordinator, and organizer
of significant funding efforts depends on having the operational capability to invest in research and
development of its own, and to bring its own resources to the table. Having made this investment to
develop such a highly capable and well regarded institution, and recognizing the realities of potential
alternative sources of capital, the GEF would do well to consider a second infusion of capital structured to
provide incentives to other donors to contribute matching capital to assure FUNBIO's continued leadership
role.



                                                       - 11 -

The GEF has identified catalyzing sustainability as one of five strategic directions for 2003-2006 (See
"Emerging Directions in Biodiversity Under GEF-3: Information Document for the May 2003 GEF
Council.") In light of the lessons learned over a decade of experience with trust funds, it is now possible to
conclude that the primary tool for catalyzing permanence and sustainable capitalization of trust funds is
permanent capital, structured in such a way as to challenge and provide incentives for matching permanent
capital from other private and public sources. FUNBIO provides an opportunity to demonstrate the
effectiveness of catalytic infusions of capital by creating challenges and opportunities, for example,
agreed-upon releases of new, permanent capital in tranches of $500,000 to $1 million upon deposit of
permanent capital from other sources (Ford Foundation, Moore Foundation, business sector donors). It is
likely that the potential for a match would be a key to securing these additional sources.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

FUNBIO has adequate operational policies and procedures, governance structures, staff, and funds to
continue operations as established during the supervision period for the remainder of the project lifespan.
No structural or procedural changes are envisioned.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank staff involved in the design of the project developed creative solutions to the difficulties of
transferring funds from the government to the private sector when they separated the originally envisioned
single project into two separate projects, one to be administered by the government and one by a private
entity. At the time, a GEF grant to a nongovernmental organization was quite unusual. Likewise, the
consideration of where to house the new fund was careful and deliberate. Competing proposals were
thoughtfully considered, and in the end, the selection of the Getulio Vargas Foundation was a good one.
Even though eventually there was a need for FUNBIO to be independent, FGV provided credibility and
stability during an essential incubation period, and enabled the new Fund to concentrate on developing its
grantmaking program. It is important to note that at the time the FUNBIO project was designed, there
were few conservation trust funds with experience to draw from, and many of the practices that today are
recognized as standards had not yet been developed or tested. The Bank's design team creatively addressed
a number of challenges. The assessment of risks, however, failed to adequately address the possibility of
highly adverse changes in global financial markets, and as noted elsewhere in this report, was overly
optimistic about the potential for raising working capital.

7.2 Supervision:

During the formative years, as gaps between the Bank team's expectations and the real-life context in
which the project operated became apparent, there were a few instances in which communications and
support were not what they might have been. For example, the inclusion of bankers on FUNBIO's board
did not adequately address the need for investment expertise in oversight of the asset manager, and the
Bank's recommended external adviser was not especially helpful. The Bank also was constrained by
fiduciary requirements that prohibit the provision of specific investment advice. But in general, the
relationship that developed between FUNBIO and its task managers was highly supportive and based on
mutual trust. Task team members continued working with the project over time and became familiar with
FUNBIO's personnel and operations, and were able to provide flexibility when needed and allow FUNBIO
to adapt to unforeseen circumstances. This in turn enabled the project to adapt to learning throughout its



                                                     - 12 -

lifetime. Supervision has generally been helpful, and overall there has been excellent compliance with
agreements reached both at the beginning of the project and during supervision. With a Task Manager
based in Brasilia for a good part of the life of the project, supervision was not restricted to the traditional
structure of biannual missions. The Task Manager was able to maintain more dynamic contact through
periodic visits, electronic communications, and videoconferences involving Washington-based personnel.
This led to some variation in the scheduling of supervision missions but generally resulted in more complete
and timely follow up on issues identified.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above, the overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

At the time of project preparation, the Government of Brazil contributed substantially to design and to
analysis of options for an innovative structure to address chronic difficulties with financing biodiversity
conservation. It supported the creation of a private sector fund and participated actively in a rather lengthy
series of preparation and appraisal missions needed to select an appropriate institution.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

See 5.2.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

FUNBIO has complied with agreements, achieved benchmarks, and consistently incorporated learning in its
work. Under the initial umbrella of the FGV, FUNBIO recruited an exemplary board and staff, and quickly
complied with the conditions for startup, developing an operational manual and procedures and a
committee structure adequate for technical review of projects. Experience with the first call for proposals,
which generated more than 1,000 requests (10 were ultimately supported) resulted in increasingly well
defined and strategic lines of work as FUNBIO continued to conduct strategic studies and planning
exercises to determine where its investments could make the most difference. Areas in which FUNBIO has
not yet fully developed strategies and performance include a comprehensive and specific plan for fund
development and financial sustainability. Its monitoring and evaluation program, as discussed above, is
adequate to document outcomes of specific projects, but has not yet identified indicators that can be applied
to the portfolio as a whole.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Based on the above, the overall performance of the recipient is assessed as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Importance of participatory design. The project drew on and substantially confirmed a number of lessons
previously derived from biodiversity conservation projects. These included lessons related to the value of
participatory approaches to design and implementation of activities, involving civil society organizations
and local communities in order to draw on their knowledge and gain their continued commitment to
achieving objectives. Experience with biodiversity projects also indicates the importance of facilitating



                                                      - 13 -

biodiversity conservation activities by communities or groups of people who have a vital interest in
conservation, either because their livelihoods depend directly on biological resources, or because their
quality of life depends significantly on use and existence values of biodiversity.

The project design reflected lessons learned from the Brazilian project portfolio, particularly the National
Environmental Project (NEP, Loan 3173-BR), which highlighted several constraints in implementation.
Lack of success in conservation projects had been linked to complexity, lack of clear delineation of niches
and goals, and poor disbursement performance. FUNBIO's agile grants program adjusted to the real
capacity of conservation institutions to use the funds effectively. However, this project confirmed findings
about the connection between clear definition of goals and targets and achievement of measurable
outcomes.

Governance. FUNBIO's design reflected learning from the earliest generation of GEF supported trust
funds for biodiversity conservation. In particular, the composition of FUNBIO's board reflected lessons
learned in early trust funds, and its contributions to the success of the project confirmed the value of careful
selection of representatives from diverse sectors, with the government having a role but not a majority.
Recommendations derived from that early experience related to conservative investment strategies and
offshore holdings proved less valid after the change in the world economic situation in 2000.

Finances and fundraising. A lesson identified in GEF's global portfolio of trust funds was that trust funds
can promote decreases in government funding of protected areas by substituting trust fund financing for
regular appropriations. This was not found to be the case in the FUNBIO project, which focused its
investments on conservation projects outside the realm of traditional government responsibilities. The GEF
trust fund evaluation also recommended that GEF support should be structured to provide incentives to
encourage raising additional capital and developing innovative capitalization approaches. These lessons
were taken into account in the design of this project, with only half the funding disbursed at effectiveness
and the remainder released in tranches as FUNBIO met requirements for raising matching funds. The
formation of alliances to provide matching funds has permitted additional capitalization of FUNBIO, which
would otherwise have been difficult to raise. However, even this structure did not address the need for
permanent working capital.

Monitoring and evaluation. At the time the project was designed, there was an expectation that the
companion project would support definition of clear priorities and targets for biodiversity conservation
outcomes, and that FUNBIO would incorporate the objectives, indicators, and measurement systems related
to those outcomes into the monitoring and evaluation system for its own projects. But, FUNBIO could not
delay its grantmaking program in expectation of those guidelines (which even today are not completed in
terms of targets and indicators, although priorities have been established). So, the calls for proposals stated
general objectives and conditions of eligibility, and applicants and implementers were encouraged to
develop results frameworks and indicators specific to each project. This actually proved an advantage in
the partnership programs, since the grantees had flexibility to select indicators most useful to their own
project, and consistent with the requirements of the partner donors, rather than indicators imposed by
FUNBIO. However, there was a disadvantage for FUNBIO in terms of analyzing cumulative impacts of
its project portfolio, since the indicators were not consistent across projects and could not be readily
combined or aggregated. Like many donors, FUNBIO is now working to define more general indicators
that can be applied consistently across the portfolio, but this is a difficult task. This experience indicates
the value of investing more serious study at the beginning of the project (or, of a major funding program
within the project) establishing targets and units of measure. This would include investments in developing
baseline data and understanding the capability of subproject implementers to monitor and analyze data, and
budgeting for external assessments if necessary.


                                                      - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments from FUNBIO, endorsed by the Board 27 February 2004

The content of this ICR covers adequately all of the different work fronts developed at Funbio in its seven
years of existence as it presents a fair evaluation of the institution's performance in those fronts. Funbio's
Board and its Secretariat accept that content without contest, being thankful both for having its efforts
recognized and also for the deserved and constructive criticisms received. Funbio shall concentrate and
build upon the latter.

The GEF grant to the development of a financial mechanism for biodiversity conservation in Brazil, which
led to the creation of Funbio, provided an opportunity for several experiments and innovations with
institutional aspects of conservation finance in this country. Even though most of Funbio's institutional
developments and lessons learned have been adequately registered and commented in this ICR, perhaps,
two elements might not have been sufficiently stressed in their importance and/or uniqueness: the role of
Funbio's Board of Directors as the exclusive responsible body for the allocation of the Grant's resources;
and the need for long term financial sustainability.

As for the first point, the fact that a formal decision making process was established right at the beginning
of the project and that it was consistently followed for the allocation of the projects' funds to sub-project
support has created an aura of respectability and seriousness around Funbio that shielded it from external
pressures and demands. At the same time, Board members, realizing they were truthfully and exclusively
empowered to make allocation decisions, also reacted accordingly, employing their best efforts to have full
participation in the collective definition of program priorities, project selection criteria, evaluation of
proposals, and follow up of project negotiation, contracting, and execution. Many Board members, high
profile professionals and individuals, have expressed themselves positively about the unique level of
empowerment and responsibility experienced at Funbio.

While by itself this is an appreciable trait, there is also the significant degree of social representation and
control expressed by the diverse composition of the Board, which is added to the legitimacy of the decisions
taken. Funbio's Board brings together shoulder-to-shoulder representatives from small local environmental
grass root organizations to leading large-scale entrepreneurs.

While this might be taken as an usual and expected best practice elsewhere, in Brazil this is a quite unique
experience that should merit efforts be maintained and continued, particularly by those sources of funding
that operate in Brazil and that need a panel of native leadership to filter, prioritize, channel and legitimate
their activity in the country.

The other point that deserves additional comment has to do with need to address long-term sustainability.
The fact that Funbio was designed as a trust fund/sinking fund, with an established timeframe of existence
and several targets to reach within a given period, made all efforts to be mainly directed to reach those
short or mid term goals, leaving aside the important question of institutional perpetuity. Even though
Funbio's Board and staff were conscious of the importance of seeking long term financial sustainability, a
long-term capital fund not only was not included among its priority goals. As such, it has never merited a
specific strategy to pursue it. This lack of programmatic priority given to long-term institutional and
financial stability has been perhaps the major fragility in the project's concept. That aspect is still open,



                                                       - 15 -

needing urgent addressing.

Both points here raised signal to the opportunity of a second phase of support for Funbio. Perhaps, this
time, in the form of a capital fund, which would allow Funbio's Board to experiment its hand with a
perpetuity proposal, in which pursuit it could demonstrate other abilities and new engagements. The
importance of guaranteeing a future for Brazil's biodiversity certainly is a good word for stimulating the
entertaining of that possibility.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
A committed Board of Directors                  100%                           100%
representative of the nonprofit, business,
academic, and government sectors meets at
least three times each year and carried out
established responsibilities.
FUNBIO has promoted the partnership             100%                           100%
among public and private sector through the
active participation of nongovernmental and
governmental sectors at the Board level,
Technical Committees and subprojects
implementing entities.
The government is committed to FUNBIO as 75%                                   75%
evidenced by their active participation in the
activities of the Board of Directors and by
supporting its fund raising efforts by
facilitating other bilateral or multilateral
donations to flow to the fund, debt-for-nature
transactions and other contributions.
Commitment is also reflected by the good
working relations between FUNBIO and
PROBIO.
Selection of activities and sub-projects in     100%                           100%
accordance with the Board's project eligibility
and selection criteria and rules set out in the
Operational Manual.
The fund has reached a minimum capital          100%                           100%
level of $25 million. FUNBIO's Board has
raised funds to support sub-projects and
other activities. Grant recipients have
complied to their requirement of providing
25% in matching contributions.
The stable financing provided by the sinking    75%                            75%
fund ensures that key sub-projects will result
in decreased biodiversity loss, deforestation,
poaching and protected areas encroachment,
as measured by
- diversity in the portfolio of sub-projects,
- their innovativeness in finding solutions to
the various threats to biodiversity protection,
and
- their effectiveness on the ground.
The sinking fund's decision-making              100%                           100%
processes have fostered local and NGO
participation in the management of
biodiversity, as evidenced by their active
involvement in decisions about the allocation
of resources to key sub-projects in Brazil.


Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
The Executive Secretariat is functioning and 100%                              100%
staffed with qualified professionals.
Technical Committees work effectively and       100%                           100%
provide advice to the Board on the suitability
of sub-projects from the perspective of
biodiversity conservation and sustainable
use.
Documents and processes are developed in        100%                           100%
a timely fashion, lessons are learned from



                                                            - 17 -

applying the processes. Operational Manual
is kept up-dated.
Complaints are registered and properly dealt 75%                Not estimated because there have been no
with.                                                           complains.
Satisfactory Annual Operating Plans           100%              100%
submitted to the Bank for review in a timely
manner.
Timely and efficient disbursements to         100%              100%
activities and sub-projects.
Satisfactory annual progress reports          100%              100%
submitted to the Bank.
The fund has a clear written strategy for     75%               75%
raising additional funds and is actively
pursuing further donations.
Administrative costs are kept within          80%               80%
agreed-upon limits, not exceeding an average
of about 15-20%.
Annual audits show satisfactory performance 100%                100%
on funding approved work programs and
competent record-keeping.
Procurement is made in accordance to          100%              100%
Bank-approved procedures.
Adherence to investment guidelines.           100%              100%
Adherence to disbursement guidelines,         100%              100%
based on the "capital invasion rule". Capital
invasion has been kept to the minimum
agreed, not exceeding US$3 million per year
of the GEF Trust Fund proceeds.
All necessary legislation and other           100%              100%
arrangements are in place to assure effective
functioning of the fund, including protection
from attachment and taxation.
The investments are providing reliable and    50%               50%
adequate returns. This entails a minimum of
10% annual return of the investment so as to
cover program needs; afford a capital reserve
to offset low-yield years and have an
estimated US$2.5-3 million per year
investments in biodiversity sub-projects.

1End of project




                                                      - 18 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                         Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                            Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
  Sub grants                                                               26.80                 9.25                   37
  Administration                                                            7.70                 3.96                   45

  Total Baseline Cost                                                      34.50               13.21
                               Total Project Costs                         34.50               13.21
                       Total Financing Required                            34.50               13.21
  Note: Appraisal estimate is for 15-year life of project. ICR prepared at closing, end of year 8, when
  $12 million capital remains and will continue to generate investments and income for the next 10-15
  years.



  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.08             0.00              0.08
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.51             0.00              2.51
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              2.45             0.00              2.45
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.20             0.00              0.20
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              4.01             3.96              7.97
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              9.25             3.96             13.21
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Some of the operating costs are paid from interests on the GEF and partnership accounts, which technically
  counts as non-Bank financing. However, FUNBIO's records do not disaggregate operating costs by source.
  Therefore, all are included in the "other" category.
  4. Miscellaneous: Personnel
  5. Miscellaneous: Other operating costs
  6. Miscellaneous: Disbursements to projects
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal



                                                          - 19 -

      Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank        Govt.     CoF.     Bank         Govt.      CoF.     Bank   Govt. CoF.
Sub grants                15.60        7.40     5.00     15.60        1.20       6.20     100.0   16.2 124.0
Administration             4.40        2.10     0.00      4.40        0.34       0.00     100.0   16.2  0.0


  NOTE: Govt. financing at appraisal included estimate capital contribution plus expected investment
  income for the project 15-year cycle.




                                                 - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Project costs and benefits were assessed at appraisal as follows.

Costs

From the $20 million provided by the GEF, it was estimated that 78% would support subprojects in
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use, through grants to organizations that would provide a
minimum counterpart funding of 25%. The life of the project was estimated at 15 years, during which time
FUNBIO was expected to raise $5 million in additional project funding, and the capital was expected to
generate $9.5 million in interest, dividends, and capital gains. Thus, total cash flows for project-supported
activities were expected to reach $33.5 million over the 15-year horizon. Another $7 to $10 million
(approximately $520,000 per year, but varying as a percentage of the total budget) would support
administrative and operational costs, bringing total project costs over the 15-year horizon to approximately
$40 million.

Benefits

A net economic benefit of the project was not calculated at appraisal.

Outcomes projected at appraisal included creation of an effective institution to engage actors from diverse
sectors in developing, selecting, implementing, and monitoring biodiversity conservation and sustainable
use projects; and an effective financial mechanism to support those projects over the long term.
Benchmarks for achieving those targets were:

a. Meeting targets of $5 million in cofinancing, and grant recipients providing 25% counterpart to
    FUNBIO resources.

b. 10% annual return on investment so as to cover program needs, afford a capital reserve, and make
    $2.5- $3 million available each year for project grants.

c. Developing public-private sector partnerships at the levels of the board, technical committees, and
    organizations implementing funded projects.

d. Government participation by government in FUNBIO's cultivation of bilateral and multilateral donors
    and debt-for-nature transactions; good working relationships between FUNBIO and PROBIO.

e. Biodiversity impact including decreases in biodiversity loss, deforestation, poaching, and protected area
    encroachment; to be measured through evaluation of individual grant results against baseline
    information provided with the funding proposals, and assessment of the diversity of the portfolio of
    projects, their degree of innovation in finding solutions to threats to biodiversity, and their effectiveness
    on the ground.

f. Social impact including evidence of active involvement by local organizations in decisions about the
    allocation of resources to grants and sub-projects.

Outcome at Closing




                                                     - 21 -

Only the first two projected outcomes can be measured in monetary terms. The targets for cofinancing and
counterpart funding by grantees were met, yielding an additional $8.2 million in financial resources for
projects. The investment yield target was met for the first three years but not afterward. To date,
investment yields have been approximately $1.2 million.

Public-private partnerships have been created at many levels. Biodiversity impact and economic and social
benefits to communities participating in sustainable use projects have been documented through project
monitoring. Although it is not possible to quantify these or assign an economic value given the data
available, reviews of available documentation indicate outcomes consistent with the level of investment, and
a likelihood of substantial economic benefits and conservation of natural capital as the projects continue to
develop.




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              ???
              ???

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/1995                   9    1 Senior Anthropologist; 1
                                             Operational Lawyer; 1
                                             Environmental Lawyer; 1
                                             Financial Specialist; 1
                                             Biodiversity Specialist; 1
                                             Conservation Specialist; 1
                                             Institutional Development
                                             Specialist; 1 Project Cost and
                                             Procurement Specialist
              07/1995                   9    1 Senior Anthropologist; 1
                                             Operational Lawyer; 1
                                             Environmental Lawyer; 1
                                             Financial Specialist; 1
                                             Biodiversity Specialist; 1
                                             Conservation Specialist; 1
                                             Institutional Development
                                             Specialist; 1 Project Cost and
                                             Procurement Specialist

 Supervision
              09/1997                   5    ???
              04/1999                   2    1 Environment Specialist; 1          S               S
                                             Financial Specialist
              08/1999                   4    1 Environment Specialist; 1          S               S
                                             Biodiversity Specialis; 1
                                             Financial Specialist; 1
                                             Environment Lawyer
              06/2000                   2    1 Biodiversity Specialist; 1         S               S
                                             Financial Specialist
              12/2000                   1    1 Biodiversity Specialist            S               S
              05/2001                   1    1 Biodiversity Specialist            S               S
              08/2001                   1    1 Biodiversity Specialist            S               S
              10/2002                   1    1 Financial Specialist               S               S
              03/2003                   2    1 Financial Specialist; 1            S               S
                                             Operations Analyst
              08/2003                   1    1 Financial Specialist               S               S

 ICR
              12/2003                   2     1 ICR Consultant; 1                 S               S
                                              Operations Analyst




                                              - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               39                           52
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    35                           66
  Supervision                              48                          140
  ICR                                      10                           24
  Total                                  132                           282




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        NGO/CBO support
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Project Document, March 1996.

Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, June 1996.

Aide memoires from supervision missions.

Other project's general supervision documents.

Couto, Maria Clara; Steil, Carlos Alberto; Scotto, Gabriela; Carvalho, Isabel. Estudo sobre Fundos
Sociais e Ambientais Financiados ou Administrados pelo Banco Mundial no Brasil, Relatorío Geral II,
Análise da Experiencia dos Fundos Sociais e Ambientais no Brasil. World Bank. Río de Janeiro, Brasil.
March 2000.

Global Environment Facility. Evaluation of Experience with Conservation Trust Funds. Washington D.C.
1999.

Global Environment Facility. Building Strategic Focus in a Conservation Trust Fund. GEF Lessons Notes
No. 6. February 1999.

Global Environment Facility. Emerging Directions in Biodiversity Under GEF-3: Information Document
for the May 2003 GEF Council. Washington D.C. 2003

FUNBIO. Plan Estratégico. 2001.

FUNBIO. Programa Melhores Practicas para o Ecoturismo. 2002.

FUNBIO. Relatório Anual. 1996.

FUNBIO. Relatório Anual. 1997.

FUNBIO. Relatório Anual. 1998.

FUNBIO. Relatório Anual. 1999.

FUNBIO. Relatório Anual.. 2000.

FUNBIO. Relatório Anual. 2002.

FUNBIO. Relatório Anual. 2003.




                                                 - 27 -

- 28 -

