GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
//+523
BRAZIL       <:-                  - -:
National-Biodiversity Eproject
Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project --
Project Document
March 1996'
U2      .'
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
.destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme,the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on thecover of the document.
Global Environment Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 14523-BR
BRAZIL
National Biodiversity Project
Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project
Project Document
March 1996
Natural Resources, Environment and Rural Poverty Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
US$ 1.0 = R$ 0.95
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDT                 Base de Dados Tropical (Tropical Data Base)
BIN21               Biodiversity Information Network
CAMPO               Companhia de Promocao Agricola (Agriculture Promotion Company)
CENARGEN            Centro Nacional de Pesquisa de Recursos Geneticos e Biotecnologia (National
Research Center for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology)
CIDES               Comis3o Interministerial para o Desenvolvimento SustentAvel (Interministerial
Commission on Sustainable Development)
CNPq                Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnol6gico (National
Council for Scientific and Technological Development)
CPAC                Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Cerrado (Agricultural Research Center of
the Cerrado)
EMBRAPA             Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa AgropecuAria (Brazilian Agricultural Research
Agency)
FBDS                Fundacao Brasileira para o Desenvolvimento Sustentavel (Brazilian Foundation
for Sustainable Development)
FGV                 Fundacao Getulio Vargas (Getilio Vargas Foundation)
FINEP               Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (Agency for Financing of Studies and
Projects)
FNMA                Fundo Nacional do Meio Ambiente (National Environment Fund)
FTPT                Fundacao Tropical de Pesquisa e Tecnologia Andre Tosello (Andre Tosello
Foundation for Tropical Research and Technology)
FUNAI               Fundacao Nacional do Indio (National Indian Foundation)
FUNATURA            Fundagao Pr6-Natureza (Pro-Nature Foundation)
FUNBIO              Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade (Brazilian Biodiversity Fund)
G-7                 Group of Seven
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
GEF Trust Fund      Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
GIS                 Geographic Information Systems
GOB                 Governrnent of Brazil



IBAMA               Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovaveis
(Brazilian Institute for the Envirornent and Renewable Natural Resources)
KfW                 Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
MMA                 Ministerio do Meio Ambiente, dos Recursos Hidricos e da Amaz6nia Legal
(Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon)
MPO                 Minist6rio do Planejamento e Orgamento (Ministry of Planning and Budget)
NEP                 National Environmental Project (PNMA) (Loan No. 3173-BR)
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
PNMA                Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente (National Environmental Project - NEP)
POA                 Plano Operativo Anual (Annual Operating Plan)
PROBIO              Projeto de Conservacao e Utilizacao Sustentavel da Diversidade Biol6gica
Brasileira (National Biodiversity Project)
PRONABIO            Programa Nacional da Diversidade Biol6gica (National Program for Biological
Diversity)
RNP                 Rede Nacional de Pesquisa (National Research Network)
RPPN                Reserva Particular do Patrimonio Natural (Private Nature Reserve Program)
SNE                 Sociedade Nordestina de Ecologia (Northeast Ecology Society)
SPVS                Sociedade para ProtecAo da Vida Selvagem (Wildlife Protection Society)
UFRJ                Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro)
UNEP                United Nations Environment Programme
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil from March 20 to 31,
1995 and a post-appraisal mission from July 24 to 29, 1995. Mission members were Messrs./Mmes.
Claudia Sobrevila (Mission Leader), Daniel Gross (Senior Anthropologist), Gustavo Rodrigues
(Operational Lawyer), Alberto Ninio (Environmental Lawyer), Musa Asad (Financial Specialist), Ken
Creighton (Biodiversity Specialist), Ruth Norris (Conservation Specialist), Miriam Parel (Institutional
Development Specialist), and Irani Escolano (Project Cost and Procurement Specialist). Ms. Loretta
Sprissler (Consultant) assisted with the writing and eciting of this report. Mr. Gobind T. Nankani is
the Department Director, Mr. Orville Grimes is the Projects Adviser, and Ms. Constance Bernard is
the Sector Division Chief.



BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I: PROJECTS SUMMARY                         Page No
Grant and Projects Summary
Country/Sector Background
Project Objectives and Description                                                    3
Rationale for GEF Funding                                                             4
Associated Bank/IDA Project                                                           4
Lessons from Bankwide Operations                                                      5
Project Sustainability                                                                6
Environmental Aspects                                                                 6
Project Benefits                                                                      7
Project Risks                                                                         7
PROJECT I: NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Project 1: Objectives                                                                 8
Project 1: Description                                                                8
Project 1: Costs and Financing                                                       I 1
Project 1: Implementation, Organization, and Management                              12
Project 1: Agreements Reached                                                        15
PROJECT II: THE BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND (FUNBIO)
Project II: Objectives                                                               17
Project 11: Description                                                              17
Project 11: Components                                                               18
Project I: Costs and Financing                                                      18
Project I: Implementation, Organization, and Management                             19
Project I: Agreements Reached                                                      23
Schedule A
Project 1                                                                    26
Project 11                                                                   27
Schedule B
Project I                                                                    28
Project II                                                                   29
Schedule B-1
Project 1                                                                    30
Project 11                                                                   31
Schedule B-2
Project 1                                                                    32
Schedule C                                                                           33



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEXES
PROJECT I: NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Annex 1:      Biome-Level Assessments
1-A    Terms of Reference for Biome-Level Assessments                      34
1-B    Detailed Activities and Costs of One Model Assessment for the Cerrado    40
I-C   Implementation Timetable of Biome-Level Assessments                  42
Annex 2:      Plans for a National Biodiversity Strategy                                 43
Annex 3:      Summary of Biodiversity Information Network                                45
Annex 4:      Summary of the First-Round Model Sub-Projects                              47
Annex 5:      Project Administration                                                     50
Annex 6:      Draft Guidelines for the Operational Manual                                53
Annex 7:      Detailed Project Cost Tables                                               55
PROJECT II: BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND PROJECT (FUNBIO)
Annex 8:      Organization of the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund (FUNBIO)
8-A    Description of the Getulio Vargas Foundation                        63
8-B   Internal Regulations of the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund              64
8-C   Initial Membership of the FUNBIO Board of Directors                  71
Annex 9:      Financial Analysis and Management                                          73
Annex 10:    Draft Guidelines for the Operational Manual                                 82
PROJECT I AND PROJECT II
Annex 11:    Draft Sub-Project Eligibility and Selection Criteria                        84
Annex 12:    Draft Monitoring and Evaluation Plan                                        89
Annex 13:    Reports and Documents in Project Files                                      98
IBRD Map No. 27334



PART I: PROJECTS SUMMARY






i
BRAZIL - GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
GRANTS AND PROJECTS SUMMARY
Source of Grant:       Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund)
Terms:                 Grant
PROJECT I: NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Recipient:             Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneflciaries:         Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon, and public and
non-profit private entities engaged in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use
Amount:                SDR 6.7 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Total Project Costs1:  US$20 million (US$10 million from GEF Trust Fund and US$10 million from
GOB)
Financing Plan:                Source                         TOTAL (US$ million)
GEF Trust Fund (grant)                 10
Government Counterpart                 10
Total:                                20
Project Duration:      5 years
PROJECT II: BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND PROJECT (FUNBIO)
Recipient:             Getulio Vargas Foundation
Beneficiaries:         Brazilian Biodiversity Fund and public and private entities engaged in biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use
Amount:                SDR 13.4 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Total Project Costs2:  US$25 million (US$20 million from GEF Trust Fund and US$5 million from
other sources) 3
Flnancing Plan:                Source                         TOTAL (US$ million)
GEF Trust Fund (grant)                20
Other sources                          5
Total                                 25
Project Duration:      15 years, minimum
It is estimated that US$14.5 million of the US$20 million will be provided to sub-grant recipients who would be required
to provide 25% in matching contributions. Implementing entities will thus contribute an estimated US$3.6 million.
2 It is estimated that US$26.8 million of 15-year fund (capital + income) will be provided to sub-grant recipients who would
be required to provide 25% in matching contributions. Implementing entities will thus contribute an estimated US$6.7
million.
3 This amount represents the capital of FUNBIO. However, the predicted income from investment of the US$20 million
GEF Trust Fund grant and US$5 million from other sources over a 15-year period (US$9.5 million) will also be available for
Project II activities (See Annex 9 for details).



ii
Economic Rate of
Retum:               N/A
Map:                 IBRD No. 27334



BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
Country/Sector Background
1.    Occupying nearly half the South American Continent, Brazil has a wide range of climate
zones, from humid tropics to semi-arid and temperate areas, that contribute to several ecologically
differentiated biogeographical zones (biomes). These include the world's largest standing tropical rain
forest (Amazonian and Atlantic forests), the world's largest inland wetland (Pantanal), expanses of
semi-arid thorn forests (caatinga), vast tree and scrub woodlands (cerrado), and more than 7,000
linear kIn of coastal and marine ecosystems. The country's vast size and diversity of biomes contribute
to a wide diversification of fauna and flora. Many Brazilian species are unique in the world (endemic).
In recent years, intervention in previously stable habitats has increased, leading to significant loss of
biodiversity. Biomes are being occupied and developed at different speed and scale. Much larger
areas of native vegetation have been devastated in the cerrado of central Brazil, the caatinga and the
Atlantic forests. Clearly, it is necessary to take stock of the various natural and modified habitats that
exist in Brazil and to develop a balanced approach to conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity,
taking into account the livelihood of local inhabitants.
2.     The Brazilian Government has addressed the issue of the loss of biodiversity through the
following initiatives: (i) in 1988, a new constitution included a section on the environment and an
emergency program which removed fiscal incentives for ranching in primary forest areas of the
Amazon and intensified federal efforts to control forest burning; (ii) the National Environmental
Project (NEP) financed by a World Bank loan (3173-BR), KfW loan and grant, and counterpart funds,
was approved in early 1990 to strengthen the federal environmental protection agency (IBAMA), 30
conservation units, the conservation of several threatened ecosystems, and state and local
environmental management; (iii) in late 1990, the Government requested GEF assistance to expand the
coverage of the NEP program to additional conservation units and support a long-term financing
mechanism (para. 6-7); (iv) in 1991, the G-7 Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest was
established to support integrated projects to reduce deforestation in the Amazon and Atlantic forest;
and (v) in 1992, the Government of Brazil was the first to officially sign the United Nations'
Convention on Biological Diversity.
3.     Outside the public sector, important institutions devoted to biodiversity conservation have
evolved as well. By 1988, more than 300 NGOs were active at the national and local level. To
catalyze NGO efforts, the Government created the National Environment Fund (FNMA) in 1988 to
support communities and local governments carrying out conservation or sustainable development
projects. State governments and private landowners in the Southeast have become active in
biodiversity protection. Brazilian corporations have begun to take greater responsibility in the
environmental area, mitigating negative impacts on biodiversity and requesting that government and
private groups develop standard methodologies that could assist them in the certification of their
products as environmentally sound. A few private firms are already marketing sustainably produced
products. As part of the Government effort, a workshop was held in June 1994 to define strategies to



2
increase public-private partnerships in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of resources. The
Government has recently launched two additional efforts to work closely with NGOs and local-level
governments in environmental protection, namely the Decentralized Environmental Projects under the
National Environmental Project (NEP) financed under World Bank Loan 3173-BR, and the
Demonstration Projects under the G-7 Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest.
4.     Nevertheless, these public and private efforts do not constitute a coordinated national
biodiversity strategy for the country. Several problems remain to be addressed: (i) uneven
conservation efforts among Brazil's main biomes and within these biomes; (ii) limited access to
biodiversity information; (iii) lack of participation in government projects by local communities and
NGOs; and (iv) limited public-private partnerships to sustain biodiversity. To address these needs and
in accordance with the Convention on Biological Diversity, the government established the National
Program for Biological Diversity (PRONABIO) in 1994 to promote partnerships between the public
and private sectors to support the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. PRONABIO
develops policies; promotes research, information networks, and international cooperation; assists in
the standardization of instruments and methodologies; and supports training and institutional
strengthening. It also provides technical input to the Interministerial Commission on Sustainable
Development (CIDES). One of the goals of the National Biodiversity Project is to strengthen the
activities of PRONABIO (paras. 19-20).
5.    In order to maximize biodiversity conservation efforts in Brazil, some additional steps need to
be taken. Biodiversity conservation efforts in Brazil to date have suffered from serious financial
difficulties, including the following: (i) an emphasis on short-term funding has created a lack of
continuity and has frequently caused termination of projects before their intended results could be
realized; (ii) project funding has rarely been geared to the absorptive capacity of implementing agencies
and organizations, and has been hampered by the Government's administrative constraints; (iii) the
Government has only limited ability to channel funds to private organizations at a time when these have
become key players in biodiversity conservation; and (iv) the leveraging of additional funds for
biodiversity from domestic private sources has been limited, despite the recognition by the Government
and NGOs that the potential is there. In light of the above, a trust fund could be an effective
mechanism for guaranteeing a long-term financial commitment and for overcoming government and
donor agency budget fluctuations, as well as a mechanism to match financial flows to absorptive
capacity and leverage new funds from a broader array of sources. Reliable funding improves program
stability, long-range planning, training and recruitment of personnel, and the overall impact of a
conservation program. Consequently, a major goal of the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project is the
creation of a trust fund to serve as a stable financial resource base for ensuring the continuity of key
biodiversity activities (paras. 32-36).
6.     The proposed GEF Biodiversity Project was conceived in late 1990, as a complement to the
National Environment Project (NEP) which had been approved and signed earlier in the year (para. 2).
The NEP, while covering significant parks and reserves in the national system of conservation units,
could not address all of the conservation needs related to Brazil's unique ecosystems and biological
diversity. Consequently, the Brazilian government requested that GEF assistance be provided to
expand the NEP program to a larger number of conservation units. This request was approved by the
GEF Participants in May 1991, when they endorsed the first-ever GEF Work Program (Tranche 1).
The project objectives as endorsed by the Participants were to: (i) decentralize management and



3
administration of selected conservation units; (ii) broaden public involvement in conservation unit
protection; and (iii) create a stable financial resource base for ensuring continuity of key management
activities and scientific research. The approval of the G-7 Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian
Rain Forest at roughly the same time as the GEF funding for the Biodiversity Project provoked a
refocusing of the GEF project concept to avoid duplication of effort and enhance cost-effectiveness of
donor resources devoted to conservation activities in Brazil. Based on consultations between the
Brazilian Government, the GEF Chairman, and the G-7 donors, it was agreed that proposed activities
under the GEF project would be reviewed to ensure that they do not duplicate the G-7 Rain Forest
Trust Fund Program activities. It was also agreed that the GEF-supported project would focus on
testing innovative private-public sector partnerships to conserve and use biodiversity sustainably
(including mobilization of new funding sources). This reinforced the Government's and the Bank's
desire to search for new approaches to conserving and sustainably using Brazil's rich biological
heritage, that did not rely exclusively on public sector conservation units and that could be partially
insulated from the restrictive public sector budgetary cycle and procedures.
7.     With the broad framework and goals agreed, the Brazilian/Bank project teams proceeded to
prepare in detail the specific components that would address the constraints to effective biodiversity
conservation identified above and that could ensure broad participation in and reliable funding for such
endeavors. In the course of preparation, several options were analyzed. The option of using an
existing Government fund such as the FNMA was discarded due to the perception that the funds belong
to the government and are therefore fungible with other government revenue, possibly making some
donors (especially the private sector) hesitant to contribute. The lack of specific legislation in Brazil
for creating a trust fund, a mechanism used successfully in several other GEF projects, and the need
for a flexible administrative structure that would operate independently, transparently, and sustainably
justified the use of a private non-profit foundation under the Brazilian civil code. It was decided at
appraisal and post-appraisal that the most effective way to remain true to the spirit of the project
concept endorsed by the GEF participants was to use a private foundation. Following a series of
consultations among Bank staff, Government representatives, scientists, NGOs, and private sector
representatives, the Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV) was chosen to house an independent fund, the
Brazilian Biodiversity Fund (FUNBIO) (see paras. 33-35 and Annex 8-A). Agreement on the use of
the private foundation had implications for project/grant structuring, however, since there are legal
restrictions on the transfer of funds by the Brazilian Treasury to private entities (even non-profit
foundations). The original comprehensive project was divided into two complementary projects with
separate grant agreements (one for US$10 million to the Federative Republic of Brazil and one for
US$20 million to FGV/FUNBIO). In this manner, GEF funds could be disbursed directly into the
fund account without transiting via the Brazilian Treasury. The new project model remains consistent
with the original project objectives, with the added bonus that there has been a shift in emphasis from a
narrow focus on support for conservation units toward a sector-wide, national, and biome-level
approach to biodiversity conservation.
Project Objectives and Description
8.     The overall goal of the two projects is to promote and support partnerships among government,
non-profit organizations, academic institutions, and the private business sector in support of
PRONABIO and CIDES efforts to improve Brazil's conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
The goal would be pursued through a two-pronged strategy. The main objective of Project I is to



4
assist the Government to initiate a program for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity by
identifying priority actions; stimulating the development of demonstration sub-projects; and
disseminating biodiversity information. A detailed description of Project I is presented in paragraphs
20-30. The main objective of Project II is to support the establishment and development of a Brazilian
Biodiversity Fund (FUNBIO) within the Get6lio Vargas Foundation (FGV) that would administer a
long-term grants program to promote conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Brazil. A
detailed description of Project II is presented in paragraphs 33-52. The goals of the two projects are
complementary. In order to ensure maximum efficiency during implementation, the following linkages
between the two projects are expected: (i) FUNBIO would use for their planning process the priorities
defined by the biome-level assessments and workshops, and follow the national priorities on
biodiversity issues adopted by PRONABIO's Coordinating Commission; (ii) PRONABIO would issue
PROBIO's calls for proposals through FUNBIO, and rely on FUNBIO to evaluate and recommend sub-
projects for funding under the National Biodiversity Project; and (iii) to promote coordination between
the two projects, the Ministry of Environment would be represented on both FUNBIO's Board of
Directors and PRONABIO's Coordinating Commission, and a memorandum of agreement (protocolo
de entendimento) would be signed between FGV and MMA.
Rationale for GEF Funding
9.     Brazil is acknowledged as probably the most biodiversity-rich country in the world. It is noted
both for species richness and endemism. With more than 50,000 species of vascular plants (one fifth
of the world total), Brazil is the most plant-rich country, and areas such as the Atlantic forests and
western Amazon have been designated as biodiversity "hot spots" because of their floral diversity.
One in eleven of all world mammals (394 species) are found in Brazil, together with one in six of all
world birds (1576), one in fifteen of all reptiles (468), and one in eight of all amphibians (502). Many
of these species are unique to Brazil, with 68 endemic mammals, 191 endemic birds, 172 endemic
reptiles, and 294 endemic amphibians. The Government of Brazil has shown its commitment to
conserve this biological diversity since it was the first country to officially sign the United Nations'
Convention on Biological Diversity in 1992. With its broad range of tropical habitats and extensive
areas of tropical forest, including vast tracts of the Amazon basin, Brazil is important for conservation
of biological diversity at the ecosystem, species, and genetic levels. The two projects address program
priorities identified by the first Conference of the Parties of the Convention on Biological Diversity.
They will strengthen conservation, management, and sustainable use of ecosystems and habitats;
promote conservation of endemic species; strengthen local and indigenous people's involvement in
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity; support projects that promote sustainability
and serve as demonstration projects; and build capacity and promote innovative measures, through a
trust fund, to engage major actors in biodiversity conservation.
Associated Bank/IDA Project
10.   The two proposed GEF projects are associated with the National Environmental Project (NEP,
Loan 3173-BR) co-financed by Germany's KfW and counterpart funds. The GEF projects' objectives
are complementary to the NEP's, which are: (i) strengthen Brazil's institutional framework and
capacity to protect the enviromnent; (ii) support protection of specific endangered ecosystems, in
particular the Atlantic Forest, the Coastal Zone, and the Pantanal wetlands; and (iii) strengthen the
regulatory framework of the environmental sector. The NEP is implemented by IBAMA and MMA,



5
with state government involvement in implementation of the ecosystems component. Since project
effectiveness in 1990, NEP's implementation performance has been uneven. Initial delays in
implementation caused by institutional inexperience with project management, the low absorptive
capacity of the implementing institutions, the low availability of counterpart financing, and a
subsequent underutilization of disbursed funds eventually resulted in a mid-term reduction of project
financing and restructuring of the project. By the end of 1994, however, project implementation was
back on track, with significant progress reported towards the goal of strengthening the national
institutional framework for environmental protection and management.
Lessons from Bankwide Operations
11.   A 1994 GEF report, "Independent Evaluation of the Pilot Phase," found that (i) more
consideration needs to be given to the involvement of local people, their expertise, and their priorities;
(ii) projects need to build more on existing data on biodiversity and conservation priorities; (iii) more
meaningful involvement of NGOs is needed throughout the project cycle, to locate "hot spots" and to
establish global biodiversity networks; (iv) more creative cooperation among implementing agencies
and other global organizations working in the field of biodiversity should be promoted; and (v) the
degree of innovation displayed by past projects is questionable. Experience with biodiversity projects
also indicates the importance of facilitating "direct" biodiversity conservation activities by communities
or groups of people who have a vital interest in conservation, either because their livelihoods depend
directly on biological resources, or because their quality of life depends significantly on use and
existence values of biodiversity.
12.    Experience with the Brazilian project portfolio, particularly the National Environmental Project
(NEP, Loan 3173-BR), which aimed at improving natural resource management and biodiversity
conservation, has shown several constraints in implementation: (i) projects are too complex; (ii)
projects overlap in their goals; and (iii) disbursement performance has been poor. The present projects
address each of these constraints. Instead of having one complex project implemented by only one
organization, two projects were devised, each with a simple design to be implemented by different
agencies (MMA and a private foundation). The goals of the two projects are complementary and do
not overlap. The first project addresses the need for the development of a policy framework for
biodiversity conservation and to support testing and dissemination of the policy. The second project
supports an agile grants program adjusted to the real capacity of conservation institutions to use the
funds effectively.
13.    Lessons Learned in the Design of Biodiversitv Trust Funds. A recent Bank paper, "Issues and
Options in the Design of GEF-Supported Trust Funds for Biodiversity Conservation" (Global
Environment Coordination Division, Environment Department, May 1994) offers a detailed analysis of
lessons to be learned about the advantages, disadvantages, and risks associated with different structural
and management options. The paper emphasizes the necessity of competent legal guidance and analysis
in: the design of the trust instrument; the nomination of trustees; selection and function of the board of
directors; by-laws; inclusion of essential features in operations manuals; appointment of an asset
manager; appointment of advisory committees; and the structure and function of the executive
secretariat. With regard to the effective disbursement of trust fund moneys, the report notes that other
funds have had difficulty disbursing relatively small amounts of funding in a timely fashion, and
recommends that this problem be resolved by: creating partnerships; disseminating information about



6
trust fund procedures and training local groups in the design and presentation of proposals; and
emphasizing transparency in the fund's rules of management, so that procedures will be clear and
frustrations avoided. This trust fund would adopt the first recommendation (partnerships) as a basic
mode of operation, and would address the other two in its operational guidelines.
14.   In designing the proposed operations, the above lessons have been taken into account by: (i)
pursuing a participatory and objectives-oriented approach in overall project design and management;
(ii) reviewing and expanding existing knowledge and data in biome-level assessments (Annexes 1-A
and 1-B); (iii) eliciting financial contributions and implementation capacity from government,
academic, NGO, and for-profit private sector organizations; (iv) making innovation a standard
eligibility criterion (Annex 11); (v) adjusting grant funds to in-country implementation capacity; (vi)
requiring co-financing from the Government and other sources; and (vii) developing a program of trust
funds for the long-term sustainability of investments. Project sustainability would be enhanced by the
fund design, which links disbursement of project funds to absorptive capacity and counterpart
investments in selected sub-projects (see Annex 9).
Project Sustainbility
15.    The projects are designed to make it possible to pursue long-term objectives for biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use through: (i) the testing of methods for improving financial viability
and sustainability of biodiversity projects through pilot sub-projects addressing the issues of cost
recovery and charges for biodiversity services (e.g. ecotourism and sustainably harvested products) or
of marketing products from natural ecosystems; (ii) the establishment of a sinking fund to secure long-
term funding that would not be subject to unstable macroeconomic conditions and government budget
constraints; and (iii) the promotion of financial and other contributions for biodiversity conservation
and sustainable use by the private sector.
Environmental Aspects
16.    Due to their innovative nature, sub-projects funded under the projects may have some
environmental and social impacts, and therefore the projects have been given a "B" rating. However,
the main objective of the projects is to only support sub-projects with a net positive or neutral
environmental and social impact. Funding for approved sub-projects is intended to demonstrate the
viability of less damaging alternatives to existing practices. The sub-project review process would
include specific attention to the environmental sustainability and social impact of the activities
financed. Eligibility criteria would include, among others: (i) respect for sound environmental
practices (for example, taking care in the design of new tourist facilities and ensuring that any sub-
project-supported harvesting of wild species is sustainable); and (ii) proper treatment of any sensitive
social issues that would include: (a) ensuring that any involuntary resettlement (if unavoidable) would
follow Bank policy and (b) promoting adequate participation by local stakeholders in the design and
implementation of sub-projects. These eligibility criteria would be included in the Operational Manual
(see Annex 11). Sub-projects would be monitored during implementation for their environmental and
social impacts.



7
Project Benefits
17.   The major benefits of the two projects is to improve natural resource management and
biodiversity conservation in Brazil's major ecosystems through strategic actions and pilot initiatives.
The benefits of Project I would be: (i) clear biodiversity conservation strategies would be agreed
among major stakeholders, adopted by the Government and disseminated; (ii) government funding
decisions and policy recommendations would be more strategic; (iii) the dissemination and use of
biodiversity information would be improved; (iv) major actors in biodiversity work in Brazil would
share information and experiences through electronic means; (v) new models of biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use would be tested, lessons would be learned from them and when
successful, they would be replicated and disseminated; and (vi) alliances among rural, local groups,
and governments would be created therefore improving the decision making process for biodiversity
conservation and use where actions are taking place. Project II would serve to (i) create an efficient
and transparent mechanism for funding critical biodiversity sub-projects in Brazil; (ii) leverage
financial resources from Brazil's private sector and from international donors so that FUNBIO can
become a long-term financial source for Brazil's biodiversity conservation; (iii) support, on a steady
and continuous manner, successful conservation activities that require long-term funding to realize
intended results; and (iv) promote changes in the private sector's approaches to more sustainable use of
biodiversity.
Project Risks
18.    The uneven performance of the Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal
Amazon (MMA) in past years due to its being a relatively young institution represents a potential risk
for Project I. There are signs, however, that MMA is consolidating itself, with improved project
implementation performance. The decentralized implementation of this project, whereby MMA would
delegate implementation activities to a large array of non-profit private, academic, and government
agencies, would greatly reduce any exposure to such a risk. This risk would be further diminished by
clear and rigorous guidelines for project administration and monitoring that have been agreed and that
would be included in the Operational Manual (see Annex 12). Another risk is the possible lack of
institutional or technical expertise for carrying out successful biodiversity conservation sub-projects.
The institutional capacity of the sub-project grant recipients would be carefully evaluated as one of the
selection criteria. Whenever appropriate, institutional linkages would be facilitated to build additional
capacity in Brazil. The potential risks associated with Project II include the possibility that the
administrative structure of the Fundacao Getuilio Vargas (FGV) could overshadow the independent
development of FUNBIO. This risk is counterbalanced by safeguards built into FUNBIO's Internal
Regulations, which establish FUNBIO's full institutional, financial, and operational autonomy from
FGV. The transparent participation process in designing FUNBIO and the broad composition of its
Board of Directors would allay any perceptions of bias or favoritism that may arise in relation to
FUNBIO. Other risks for Project II are related to biased sub-project funding decisions, uncertainties
about future economic and investment trends (e.g., exchange and inflation rates, and the earning
capacity of capital), and the fund's long-term sustainability, which will depend somewhat on the initial
investment performance of the sinking fund, but more so on provisions which will allow re-investment
of income and FUNBIO's ability to draw upon other sources of financing. Risks have been minimized
on these issues by the broad composition of the Board of Directors that can balance out decisions and
by external evaluations of FUNBIO to be undertaken.



8
PROJECT I: NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Project I: Objectives
19.   The main objective of Project I is to assist the Government to initiate a program for the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity by identifying priority actions; stimulating the
development of sub-projects through the facilitation of partnerships between the public and private
sectors; and disseminating biodiversity information.
Project I: Description
20.   Project I would include the following components:
(a)    Biodiversity Assessments and Dissemination (19% of total project costs)
(i)    Biome-Level Assessments would be done through the organization of
workshops bringing together experts from various fields to consolidate available information
on biodiversity and conservation status, critically analyze the information and identify and
evaluate options for conservation and sustainable use. Based on lessons learned from the
Manaus-90 workshop, maps with biodiversity data would be prepared before the actual
workshop, conservation priorities would be ranked, and analysis would go beyond species
distribution to review ecosystems and habitat protection, economic trends, and public policies.
For each major biome, priorities would be identified and strategies for conservation and
resource use developed. NGOs, academic institutions, public entities, and consortia of the
above would submit proposals to organize the biome-level assessments and would be selected
according to established criteria. Each workshop would establish the parameters for
biodiversity monitoring and identify institutions to carry out such monitoring and disseminate
the results (see Annex 1-A and Annex 12).
Terms of reference to select the organizers for each biome-level assessment have been
approved by the Bank (see Annex 1-A) and would be incorporated in the Operational Manual.
The proposal and institution (Fundarao Pro-Natureza) to carry out the first workshop
"Cerrado" have also been agreed. The detailed activities and costs of the first workshop
would be used as a model for the rest of the assessments (see Annex 1-B). The activities
would be divided into three stages: (1) preparation of information base for workshop; (2)
workshop event, integration of results, definition of priorities; (3) establishment of a permanent
working group in charge of follow-up activities including the periodic review of priorities,
development of a priority action plan, and the definition of monitoring and consultation
programs. The assessments would be held on a staggered basis so that all of them would be
completed during the first two years of the project (see the implementation plan for biome-level
assessments in Annex I-C). Workshop results would be disseminated in the form of maps and
books and through electronic and other media. Participants in each biome-level assessment
would designate a small number of participants to serve as a liaison and consultative group
between the Government and the different constituencies represented to ensure that the



9
recommendations of the assessments are carried out. The results and recommendations of each
workshop would contribute to the National Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation and
Sustainable Use to be promoted by PRONABIO. They would also be used in the preparation
of the calls for proposals for new sub-projects under Project I (para.20 (b) (ii)), as well in the
definition of funding priorities for the grants program under Project II (para. 36). The steps
and timetable for developing the National Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation and
Sustainable Use were agreed during appraisal and are detailed in Annex 2.
(ii)    A Biodiversity Information Network - Brazil would be established for the
purpose of storing, updating, and linking information generated in the assessments (para.
20(a)(i)), and for providing an efficient means of communication about biodiversity both
nationally and internationally. It would build on existing data in the Tropical Data Base (BDT)
and would connect BDT and other data bases, including IBAMA-NET, the National
Environmental Electronic Network financed by the NEP loan from the Bank (see paras. 2 and
10), and the National Research Network (RNP). The Biodiversity Information Network -
Brazil would be accessible to government, scientific, conservation, and private-sector actors.
The Andre Tosello Foundation for Tropical Research and Techology (FTPT) would coordinate
the implementation of this component. FTPT was chosen because of its established leadership
in developing Brazil's biodiversity information systems and facilitating its access to such
systems worldwide. This private non-profit foundation has played an important role in several
international forums sponsored by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and
the Brazilian Government on establishment of the international Biodiversity Information
Network (BIN21), which was designed to link information relevant to biodiversity and make it
widely available by electronic and other means, in support of the Convention on Biological
Diversity and Agenda 21. BIN21, which is already functioning, has its secretariat at FTPT.
The Tropical Data Base node (Brazil) is maintained by FTPT. At present, there are 14
international nodes in the BIN21 network (See Annex 3 for more details).
(iii)   Additional Biodiversity Assessments and Dissemination Activities identified by
PRONABIO and to be agreed with the Bank would be financed to support and update the
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plans, and add new subscribers to the Information Network.
(b)    Model Biodiversity Sub-Projects (72% of total project costs) would be financed under
this component to initiate local pilot activities that would: (1) contribute significantly to
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in a specific region or biome; (2) explore
innovative forms of biodiversity protection and management; (3) test a wide variety of
arrangements involving public-sector and non-profit private-sector actors, and a range of
conservation goals.
(i)    First-Round Model Sub-Projects (18% of total project costs). In 1992, MMA
requested proposals from a variety of public, academic, and non-profit conservation
organizations in order to identify a pipeline of eligible sub-projects that would be ready to
begin implementation upon grant effectiveness. Sub-projects for the first round of funding
were chosen on the basis of the degree to which they address high conservation priorities, and
the potential for success in achieving stated sub-project goals. Proposed sub-projects were also
expected to incorporate the following basic elements into their design: (1) multi-institutional



10
involvement with partners representing government, non-government, and academic research
institutions; (2) participation of institutions or collaborating groups with technical, financial, or
operational capabilities relevant to biodiversity conservation, whose involvement would
represent a broadening of the community of stakeholders in biodiversity conservation; and (3)
involvement of organizations with a clear institutional mandate and well-established
performance record, which through collaboration with other institutional actors could enhance
the relevance of their work to biodiversity conservation. Furthermore, the following criteria
were used to prioritize proposals and to make a final selection:
* Potential for replicability of project methods and approaches;
* Demonstration value of new techniques and approaches and potential sustainability
of results;
* Cost effectiveness and incrementality of project-financed activities and evidence of
institutional commitments reflected by counterpart funds, facilities, or in-kind
services contributed by the implementors.
MMA evaluated sub-project proposals against these basic elements and criteria, and
selected five sub-projects for first-round funding in 1993. One sub-project is national in scope
and four are of local or regional interest:
a.     National sub-project: Conservation of Plant Genetic Resources. This
sub-project would conserve plant genetic resources by developing and implementing a program
for the sustainable management of selected wild plant species with high conservation priority
value and potential for sustainable economic use.
b.     Local sub-projects. (i) Conservation and Restoration of Biodiversity in
Gallery Forests of the Cerrado. This sub-project would assist in the conservation and
restoration of gallery forests threatened by agricultural expansion in the Federal District and
adjacent regions of Minas Gerais and Goias states; (ii) Management of Conservation Units in
the Guaraguecaba Region. Parana state. This sub-project would contribute to the conservation
of the largest of the Atlantic Forest remnants by expanding conservation units in a unique
310,000-hectare coastal area in eastern Parana state; (iii) Conservation and Restoration of
Atlantic Forest in Tablelands of Linhares. EsDirito Santo. This sub-project would develop a
technical and scientific model for biodiversity conservation in important remnants of Atlantic
Forest in northern Espirito Santo state; (iv) Restoration and Management of the Natural
Ecosystems of Brejos de Altitude in Pernambuco and Paraiba. This sub-project would
contribute to the conservation of the threatened forest ecosystems of the Eastern Escarpment
(Borborema) in Pemambuco and Paraiba states. More details on each sub-project and
implementation arrangements are presented in Annex 4.
(ii)    Second-Round Model Sub-Projects (54% of total project costs). The nature of
second-round model sub-projects would include the following four broad areas: (i) Biodiversity
conservation: activities that support long-term biodiversity conservation management
initiatives; (ii) Sustainable use of Biodiversity: activities that build synergies and strengthen
inter-relationship between biodiversity conservation and sustainable use and development
practices in main productive sectors of the economy; (iii) Policy Analysis: analytical studies on



11
policies and incentives to support biodiversity conservation and sustainable use; and (iv)
Applied research and technology development: research to support increased knowledge and
technology development in biodiversity conservation and sustainable. Requests for second-
round proposals would be prepared for additional model sub-projects that would involve
regions, problems, and organizations not included in the first round. These requests would be
based on national priorities established by the Government and on the priorities set by the
biome-level assessments. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the request for
proposals (editais) would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval before being
submitted to the Coordinating Commission and issued (para.31-a). In order to increase the
cost-effectiveness of project activities and to enhance coordination between Projects I and II,
the calls would be issued through FUNBIO, the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund established to
carry out Project II (paras. 37 and 42). FUNBIO would conduct a technical evaluation of the
proposals received against criteria agreed with MMA/PRONABIO (see Annex 11). Guidelines
for selection should ensure, among other things, that sub-projects will (i) follow good environmental
practices, (ii) properly address any sensitive social issues, and (iii) mobilize matching funding from
grant recipients. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the technical reviewers'
recommendation on the eligibility of sub-projects and the selection of the corresponding
implementing entity would be sent to the Bank for review and approval before it is approved
by the Coordinating Commission (para. 31-b). Recommendations on sub-project selection
would be reviewed by FUNBIO and subsequently transmitted to PRONABIO's Coordinating
Commission for review and approval. Eligible entities would include public institutions,
research institutions, NGOs, the private sector, and consortia of the above. Sub-project
proposals would average US$500,000 for three years, with maximum funding of US$700,000.
A draft Operational Manual sets down procedures for processing and approving proposals,
evaluation reviews, the Technical Secretariat, the Administrative Agent, and for implementing,
supervising, monitoring, and evaluating sub-projects (see Annexes 6, 1 I,and 12). At
negotiations, agreement was reached that project implementation would be ruled by the
Operational Manual (para. 31-c). Prior to effectiveness, the final version of the Operational
Manual would be approved by the Bank (para. 32-a).
(c)    Proiect Administration (9% of total project costs). The objective of this component is to
support the administration and coordination of the project including: support to PRONABIO's
Coordinating Commission; supervision of biome-level assessments and the Biodiversity Information
Network; evaluation and integration of biome-leve] assessment and workshop results; provision of
support in the formulation of a draft Biodiversity Strategy; monitoring and supervision of sub-projects
and workshops; monitoring and supervision of financial execution by CNPq; and the dissemination of
results for the whole project. (See Annex 5)
Project 1: Costs and Financing
21.    Project I activities are estimated at US$20 million (US$10 million from GEF Trust Fund and
US$10 million from the Brazilian Government), including physical and price contingencies amounting
to approximately 7% of total project costs. The estimated costs are summarized in Schedule A-1,
Project I . Cost estimates are based on the following considerations: (i) workshops were estimated on
the basis of previous workshops (see Annex 1-B); and (ii) for first-round model sub-projects and the
National Biodiversity Network, budget limits, including contingencies, were agreed with each



12
beneficiary. For the Biodiversity workshops, the GEF Trust Fund would finance 100% of goods, 30% of
services and 25 % of materials and supplies. For Sub-projects (including the National Biodiversity
Network), the GEF Trust Fund would also firance 100% of goods, 30% of services and 25% of materials
and supplies. Project administration would be financed 100% by Government. GEF Trust Funid financing
would cover eligible sub-project foreign and local expenditures net of local taxes. Sub-project imnplementing
entities would also contribute financially to the costs of sub-projects. At negotiations. agreement was
reached that the overall matching contributions by implementing entities would be at least 25 % of total sub-
project costs and would be required in the request for proposals (para. 31-d). The matching contributions by
implementing entities for the first-round sub-projects was also agreed at negotiations and the values are all
above 25 % of the total sub-project costs (Annex 7). The matching contribution requirements by sub-project
proponents would depend on the size of the grant and on whether the entity is public or private. The details
of the mechanism, type and size of contributions will be spelled out in the Operational Manual.
Project I: Implementation, Organization, and Management
22.   Institutional Arrangements. The project would be coordinated by the Ministry of
Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon (MMA) and would be implemented by: (i) the
Coordinating Commission of PRONABIO assisted by a small Technical Secretariat at MMA and
CNPq, affiliated with the Ministry of Science and Technology, as its Administrative Agent; and (ii) the
implementing entities selected to carry out projezct activities. PRONABIO's Coordinating Comnmission
has been established by the Minister of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon,
according to Decree 1354, Of December 29, 1994, to set policies and make decisions regarding the
project and other activities of PRONABIO. Members of the Commission include individuals renowned
in the field of biodiversity conservation and have been selected from the public, academic, private, and
non-profit sectors. The Technical Secretariat would be responsible for project management and
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation of project activities. Prior to effectiveness, the
Technical Secretariat of PRONABIO would be fully operational (para. 32-b). MMA would engage
CNPq as its Administrative Agent to enter into contractual arrangements with the project implementing
entities and to assist the Technical Secretariat in disbursing and accounting for project funds (para. 26).
During the post-appraisal mission, CNPq's capacity to be the Administrative Agent for the project was
assessed. In a follow-up letter from the president of CNPq to the Bank, certain critical issues, such as
the possibility to finance NGOs, ability to issue contracts and disburse funds in a short period of time,
and capacity to monitor financial execution were answered to the Bank's satisfaction. Prior to
effectiveness, the contract between MMA and CNPq and contracts with implementing entities for the
First-Round Sub-Projects and for the Biodiversity Information Network would be signed (para. 32 c
and e).
23.    Procurement Arrangements. The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in
Schedule B, Project I. Based on an analysis of the pre-approved sub-projects, expenditures would
include minimal civil works, varied equipment (computers, boats, cars, scientific equipment),
materials, travel expenses, and consultant services. Purchases would be dispersed in time and space
over the period of the project (three to five years) and would be implemented by different
environmental agencies (such as universities, institutes, and NGOs). For these reasons, packaging of
procurement across sub-projects would be difficult. Also, because of the dispersed nature of
expenditures under Project 1, it is expected that only one international competitive bidding would be
carried out. Most purchases would be expected to be made in accordance with shopping procedures



13
acceptable to the Bank, following the January 1995 Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits. In order to ensure that Bank procedures are fully followed, the Technical Secretariat of
PRONABIO would prepare for Bank review a specific procurement program in the context of its
annual operating plan, based on the guidelines described below (para. 24-25, 28).
24.   Small Civil Works under the project would be geographically scattered. Since the largest
contract is not expected to exceed US$300,000, it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be
interested. Small works would be procured under lump-sum fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. Goods:
Computer equipment for the Biodiversity Information Network estimated to cost US$ 572,000 would
be procured through international competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Outside this
contract, contracts for goods are not expected to exceed US$100,000 per project beneficiary, and
would be awarded through national or international shopping. If expenditures exceed US$300,000 for
small works and US$100,000 for goods, contracts would be procured on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Recurrent costs needed for the
implementation of sub-projects would include materials and supplies and travel expenses, and would be
procured through direct purchase. Procurement under sub-projects which are implemented by private
sector entities would be undertaken in accordance with established commercial practices in the sector,
provided that these are acceptable to the Bank. The threshold contract values indicated above for
purchases of civil works and goods, respectively, would also apply to procurement using commercial
practices.
25.   The selection and appointment of consultants would follow the August 1981 Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. Contracts
with consulting firms valued at US$50,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank review (terms of
reference, letter of invitation, recommendation for award, and proposed contract). For individual
consultants, prior Bank review (terms of reference, qualifications, and conditions of employment)
would be required for contracts valued at US$30,000 or more. Below these limits, the Bank's prior
review would apply only to the terms of reference. The use of standard documentation for the
employment of consultants (letters of invitation and forms of contract) would be agreed with the Bank.
Ex-post review would be carried out by World Bank supervision missions, at which time Bank staff
would review in detail the procurement procedures used.
26.   Disbursements. CNPq would manage on behalf of the Treasury a Special Account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, in which GEF Trust Fund funds (a total of US$10 million,
with an initial allocation of US$500,000) would be deposited and subsequently disbursed to grant
recipients after notification by the Technical Secretariat. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
the Special Account would be opened with the Banco do Brasil. CNPq would review and prepare
appropriate documentation in support of disbursement requests, sign contracts with implementing
entities, disburse funds, review and prepare appropriate documentation in support of disbursement
requests, manage financial records, and have PROBIO accounts audited annually. CNPq would
receive no fees for these services. Disbursement schedules for each project component are presented in
Schedule B-1, Project I. Grant funds would be disbursed against SOEs for consultant services for
firms whose contract value is below US$50,000; consultant services for individuals whose contract
value is below US$30,000; contracts for goods and civil works, and for recurrent costs (materials and
supplies and travel expenses). Supporting documentation for such expenditures would not be



14
submitted to the Bank but would be made available for inspection by Bank supervision missions. The
closing date for Project I would be five years after signing the Grant Agreement.
27.   Auditing. The Government would maintain a separate account for the project and would keep
adequate records to reflect its execution in accordance with consistently applied sound accounting
principles. At negotiations. agreement was reached that the Special Account and all project accounts
would be subject to an annual audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The terms of
reference for the auditors would include, inter alia, provision of a Management Letter, a separate
opinion on the use of the Special Account, and SOEs for the project accounts and Special Accounts.
Copies of the auditor's report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year (para. 31 -4). Agreement was also reached that the Secretaria Federal de Controle would be used to
carry out the auditing of the project.
28.   Annual Operating Plans and Progress Reports. At neeotiations, agreement was reached that
the Technical Secretariat of PRONABIO would prepare Annual Operating Plans that would be
submitted to the Bank for approval by December 15 of the previous year (para. 31-g). The Annual
Operating Plans would include a statement of specific objectives for the year, a description of the
activities, expected outputs, monitorable indicators, detailed estimated budgets and a procurement plan.
Prior to effectiveness, the first-year Annual Operating Plan would be approved by the Bank (para. 32-
d). The Technical Secretariat would track information on all project activities provided by the
implementing entities and financial transactions provided by CNPq. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that the Technical Secretariat would submit to the Bank bi-annual progress reports tracking
physical and financial performance targets by March 31 and September 30 of each year (para. 31-h).
A model report would be sent by the Bank to the Govermnent before the first report is due. Twice a
year after receipt of the progress reports, the Bank and the Technical Secretariat would jointly carry
out a supervision mission to review progress made against objectives and monitoring targets (para. 29).
29.   Program Monitoring and Evaluation. The Technical Secretariat would be responsible for
ensuring that project results and impacts are monitored throughout the life of the project. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Bank would received the project performance monitoring
indicators by the end of January. These were received and reviewed by the Bank and have been
incorporated in Annex 12. They will also be included in the Operational Manual (para 31-i). At
negotiations, agreement was reached that the Technical Secretariat would enlist the assistance of
independent consultants that would meet during the Mid-Term Review and by project to review
progress in biodiversity assessments, individual sub-projects, and in the overall program and to draw
lessons learned (para. 31-j). Terms of reference for this review would be sent to the Bank for
conmment and approval. In addition, each sub-project would set specific, objective performance
indicators and would periodically provide data on fulfillment of performance indicators. PROBIO's
consultants specializing in biodiversity and conservation would visit sub-project sites annually to
review sub-project implementation, and to make suggestions on how to improve project performance.
30.   Mid-Term Review. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the Technical Secretariat of
PRONABIO and the Bank would conduct a Mid-Term Review at the end of the third year to evaluate
the project's implementation arrangements and its on-the-ground effectiveness in implementing sub-
projects (para. 31-k).



15
Project I: Agreements Reached
31.   At negotiations, the Bank and Government agreed that:
a) the request for proposals (editais) would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval
before being submitted to the Coordinating Commnission and issued (para. 20 (b)(ii));
b) the technical reviewers' recommendation on the eligibility of sub-projects and the selection
of the corresponding implementing entity would be sent to the Bank for review and
approval before it is approved by the Coordinating Commission (para. 20 (b)(ii);
c) project implementation would be ruled by the Operational Manual (para. 20 (b)(ii)),
d) the overall matching contributions by implementing entities would be at least 25 % of total sub-
project costs, and would be required in the request for proposals (para. 21);
e) all procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank procedures (para. 23);
f) the Special Account and all project accounts would be subject to an annual audit by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The terms of reference for the auditors would
include, inter alia, provision of a Management Letter, a separate opinion on the use of the
Special Account, and SOEs for the project accounts and Special Accounts. Copies of the
auditor's report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para. 27);
g) the Technical Secretariat of PRONABIO would prepare Annual Operating Plans that would
be submitted to the Bank for approval by December 15 of the previous year (para. 28);
h) the Technical Secretariat would submit to the Bank bi-annual progress reports tracking
physical and financial performance targets by March 31 and September 30 of each year
(para. 28);
i) the Bank would received the project performance monitoring indicators by the end of
January. These were received and reviewed by the Bank and have been incorporated in
Annex 12. They will also be included in the Operational Manual (para. 29);
j) the Technical Secretariat would enlist the assistance of independent consultants that would
meet during the Mid-Term Review and by project completion to review progress in
biodiversity assessments, individual sub-projects, and in the overall program and to draw
lessons learned (para. 29); and
k) the Technical Secretariat of PRONABIO and the Bank would conduct a Mid-Term Review
at the end of the third year to evaluate the project-s implementation arrangements and its
on-the-ground effectiveness in implementating sub-projects. (para. 30).



16
32.   Conditions of grant effectiveness are:
a) the final version of the Operational Manual would be approved by the Bank (para. 20);
b) the Technical Secretariat of PRONABIO would be operational to the satisfaction of the
Bank (para. 22);
c) the contract between MMA and CNPq would be signed (para. 22);
d) the first-year Annual Operating Plan would be approved by the Bank (para. 28); and
e) the contracts with implementing entities for First-Round Sub-projects and for the
Biodiversity Information Network would be signed (para. 20).



17
PROJECT II: THE BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUTND (FUNBIO)
Project II: Objective
33.   The main objective of Project 11 is to provide long-term and sustainable support for
conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity in Brazil. This goal would be pursued by
supporting the establishment and development of a Brazilian Biodiversity Fund (FUNBIO) within the
Getulio Vargas Foundation that would administer a long-term grants program to promote conservation
and sustainable use of biodiversity in Brazil.
Project II: Description
34.   During project preparation, the Brazilian Government and the Bank examined all the options
available to create a trust fund in Brazil. The option to create a trust fund abroad was not pursued due
to difficulties such as taxation and/or investment restrictions. The option of using an existing
Government fund such as the FNMA was discarded due to the perception that the funds belong to the
government and are therefore fungible with other government revenue, possibly making some donors
(especially the private sector) hesitant to contribute. The lack of specific legislation in Brazil for
creating a trust fund, a mechanism used successfully in several other GEF projects, and the need for a
flexible administrative structure that would operate independently, transparently, and sustainably
justified the use of a private non-profit foundation under the Brazilian civil code. The proposed
foundation would administer a fund in an off-shore investment account, and administer a long-term
program to promote the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Brazil.
35.    Following a series of extensive consultations (both formal and informal) among Government
representatives, members of the scientific sector, NGOs, and private sector representatives, a
foundation profile and terms of reference were developed. According to the profile, the foundation
chosen to administer the fund would ultimately be expected to serve as an active, independent,
sustainable and innovative catalyst for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity in
Brazil. The foundation would function as a (i) grant maker; (ii) fundraiser; (iii) manager; and (iv)
catalyst for public-private cooperation. The foundation should also be characterized by financial and
administrative transparency; the avoidance of conflicts of interest; a clear mission; the ability to
manage a fund in the form of a 15-year sinking fund; clear criteria for the selection of projects; and the
ability to monitor project impact on biodiversity conservation. In April 1995, MMA established a
Steering Committee with members from the NGO, academic, business, and government sectors to
select the foundation that would administer the fund. The Steering Committee found two options
acceptable. One option involved the creation of a new foundation, and the other option would be to
use an existing foundation, the Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV). The Environment Minister decided
on the option to create an independent fund, the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund (FUNBIO) housed in the
Getulio Vargas Foundation. A Bank post-appraisal mission evaluated FGV and the internal regulations
for FUNBIO and found this arrangement satisfactory.
36.   The internal regulations of FUNBIO and the membership of its Board of Directors have been
approved by the Bank (see Annexes 8-B and 8-C). FUNBIO was established by the Getulio Vargas
Foundation on September 28, 1995, and the first meeting of the FUNBIO Board took place on October



18
9, 1995. The President and Vice-President of the Board were selected during the first meeting of the
Board.
Project II: Components
37.   This project would have two major components:
(a)    Strengthening and Operational Support of FUNBIO (22% of total project costs),
including operational costs, development of a cost-recovery and fund-raising program, and
special studies to strengthen FUNBIO (e.g., of incentives to involve the private sector in
biodiversity protection).
(b)    Grants Program (78% of total project costs) that would finance FUNBIO sub-projects
responding to priorities that take into account the results of biome-level assessment workshops
under Project I, national government policies in biodiversity protection, and international
commitments, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity, Agenda 21, CIDES and
PRONABIO policies, and actions recommended by other policy units and studies. Sub-
projects would be selected on a competitive basis according to established criteria. The nature
of sub-projects would include the following four broad areas: (i) Biodiversity conservation:
activities that support long-term biodiversity conservation management initiatives; (ii)
Sustainable use of Biodiversity: activities that build synergies and strengthen inter-relationship
between biodiversity conservation and sustainable use and development practices in main
productive sectors of the economy; (iii) Policy Analysis: analytical studies for policies and
incentives to support biodiversity conservation and sustainable use; and (iv) Applied research
and technologv development: research to support increased knowledge and technology
development in biodiversity conservation and sustainable. Eligible entities would include: (i)
state and municipal businesses and public agencies; (ii) private businesses, either for-profit
(with certain restrictions) or non-profit; (iii) NGOs; (iv) research institutions; and (v) consortia
of the above. The size of individual grants would average US$250,000 per year (excluding
other matching sources outside FUNBIO). The detailed procedures to call, select, contract, and
monitor the sub-projects would be spelled out in FUNBIO's Operational Manual (see paras.
42-43).
Project II: Costs and Financing
38.   Project activities would be financed by a GEF Trust Fund Grant (US$20 million) and funds
raised by FUNBIO (US$5 million) that would be deposited into a sinking fund organized for a 15-year
horizon and managed by an internationally qualified asset manager in accordance with established
selection criteria. These figures represent the minimum required by the Bank. Additional funds would
be sought to help the fund grow. After Grant Effectiveness, the GEF Trust Fund would deposit an
initial amount equivalent to US$10 million into the sinking fund account. The additional GEF Trust
Fund deposits into the fund would be triggered by donations to the fund raised by FUNBIO at a ratio
of two (GEF Trust Fund) to one (non-GEF Trust Fund). The overall program budget revenues and
costs are presented in Schedule A-2, Project II. In addition to these estimated costs, the sinking fund
is expected to generate an approximate net investment of US$9.5 million (see Annex 9), which would
be made available to the program. Sub-project implementing entities would also contribute financially to



19
the costs of sub-projects. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the overall matching contributions by
implementing entities under FUNBIO's grants program would be at least 25 % and would be required in the
request for proposals (para. 53-a). The matching contribution requirements by sub-project proponents would
depend on the size of the grant and on whether the entity is public or private. The details of the mechanism,
type and size of contributions will be spelled out in the Operational Manual.
Project II: Implementation, Organization, and Management
39.    The project would be implemented by: (i) FUNBIO, established by the Getulio Vargas
Foundation and assisted by an Asset Manager (para. 46); and (ii) the implementing entities designated
to carry out approved sub-projects.
40.    FUNBIO Board of Directors. The governing board of FUNBIO would consist of about 16
individuals informally representing the interests of: FGV (2); the public sector (2 from MMA); private
non-profit organizations (4); private for-profit enterprises (4); and academic institutions (4). The
Board members would be individuals outstanding in fields relevant to the objectives of FUNBIO.
Consideration regarding geographic and gender representation have been taken into account, although
primary emphasis has been placed upon the capacity of the individuals to contribute significantly to the
objectives of FUNBIO. The Board was selected by MMA and FGV after consultation with the
different sectors represented (NGOs, academic, business) and its membership is satisfactory to the
Bank (see Annex 8-C). The Board would be autonomously responsible for overall management and
direction of FUNBIO, including: setting policy; establishing goals and priorities; selecting the
President and Vice-President; selecting the Executive Director; approving the Operational Manual;
selecting an asset manager; making investment decisions; approving calls for proposals for funding;
approving sub-projects to be financed; and monitoring sub-project implementation (Annex 8-B).
Advisors of recognized expertise forming Technical Committees would advise the Board, on an ad hoc
basis, on the suitability of sub-projects from the perspective of biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use. During the inaugural meeting of FUNBIO's Board, on October 9, 1995, the Board
appointed Roberto Bornhausen as President and Gustavo Fonseca as Vice-President of the Board. The
Board also created four working groups to finalize the last requirements before effectiveness: (1)
develop procedures to select the Executive Director; (2) review the report on the asset managers; (3)
assess independent firms to do the auditing; and (4) prepare the draft Operational Manual. In order to
ensure full coordination between FUNBIO and PROBIO (Project I), an agreement (protocolo de
entendimento) would be signed between FGV and MMA.
41.   Administration. The day-to-day administration of FUNBIO would be entrusted to an
Executive Director and a small operating unit. Given the importance of the Executive Director's role,
it is vital that the selection process be well-advertised and openly competitive. Lessons learned from
previous similar projects show that basic prerequisites for successful executive performance include: a
clear job description approved by the Board, a position widely and strategically advertised, a small
search committee from the Board to carry out the interview process and a final selection to be made by
the Board. The process for selecting the Executive Director and job description have been agreed and
would be spelled out in the Operational Manual. Prior to effectiveness, the Executive Director would
be hired and FUNBIO would be fully operational (para. 55-a). A program assistant specializing in
fund-raising would be contracted and remunerated at least partially on a performance basis.
Administrative costs would be held to an average of about 15-20%, depending upon accounting



20
procedures for program and overhead costs. This value is generally in line with other similar GEF
projects and internationally accepted practice. Th,e percentage would also decline as additional funds
are raised. This is expected, but no estimated values are included in the project cost analysis.
FUNBIO would contract an internationally qualified asset manager to administer funds efficiently (see
para. 46). Commissions and fees paid to the asset manager would be in accordance with standard
practice (e.g., 1-1.5%), and would be paid out of the fund's investment proceeds (see Annex 9).
42.    Criteria for Grants. FUNBIO would issue calls for proposals, as defined by the results of the
biome-level workshops, and open to a wide range of institutions. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that the text of any call for proposals would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval
before it is issued (para. 53-b). The broad programming area would cover activities supporting the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity (see para. 37 (b)). Sub-projects would be evaluated by
technical reviewers according to selection criteria summarized in Annex 11. FUNBIO would carry out
the technical evaluation of PROBIO proposals for funding (para. 20 b-ii). Different criteria would
apply to public and private non-profit versus private for-profit sector sub-projects. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that, if FUNBIO decides to carry out a sub-loan program for private
businesses, the guidelines included in Annex 11 (Attachment 1) would be followed. In addition, a
detailed plan for such endeavor and procedures would be submitted to the Bank for approval (para. 53-
c). Guidelines to evaluate the environmental impact and social assessments of the sub-projects will also be
applied. These guidelines should ensure that sub-projects will (i) follow good environmental practices, (ii)
properly address any sensitive social issues, and (iii) mobilize matching funding from grant recipients.
Grants would only be provided for sub-projects which demonstrate clearly defined environmental and
public benefits. The Board of Directors would make the final decision on proposal funding. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that, for the first set of approved sub-projects, the Bank will
review the eligibility of sub-projects before these are submitted to the technical review (para. 53-d).
The detailed programming areas and selection criteria, matching contributions from implementing
entities and procedures for the grants program would be spelled out in the Operational Manual. Once
approved by the Board, FGV and the implementing entities would sign an implementing agreement.
At negotiations, agreement was reached that a model implementing agreement would be reviewed and
approved by the Bank before the funds are disbursed to any implementing entity (para. 53-e).
43.    Operational Manual. An Operational Manual for the project would lay out all the operational,
financial and administrative rules and procedures for FUNBIO. The content of the Operational Manual
has been discussed in previous missions and several Trust Fund Manuals from other similar projects have
been shared to facilitate its preparation. At negotiations, agreement was reached that project
implementation would be ruled by the Operational Manual (para. 53-f). Prior to effectiveness, the final
version of the Operational Manual would be approved by the Bank (para. 55-b). The final version of
the Operational Manual would be consistent with FUNBIO's internal regulations and address at least
the following issues: (a) FUNBIO's objectives; (b) organizational structure (including operational
procedures of the Board, profile of main positions, process to select Executive Director and other
staff); (c) funding sources (including mechanisms to attract private sector participation, planned fund-
raising activities); (d) detailed spending and investment rules, including acceptable levels of risk for
investments, limits on capital invasion, mechanisms for re-investment of unspent income (e.g., in years
with high investment performance), and mechanisms for incorporating and managing additional grants
and assets provided by sources other than the GEF Trust Fund; (e) operating procedures for making
grants, including how to define priorities and invite proposals, eligibility and selection criteria



21
(differentiating among non-profit and for-profit grant recipients), level of counterpart contributions
from grant recipients, procedures to evaluate proposals (technical reviewers), guidelines to ensure that
sub-projects will follow good environmental practices and properly address any sensitive social issue: (f)
guidelines for setting administrative costs of FUNBIO, and for financing fund-raising programs and
other FUNBIO activities; (g) financial management arrangements, including procurement and
disbursement guidelines, guidelines for contracting an asset manager, detailed investment guidelines
for the asset manager, auditing, and financial recording and reporting; and (h) monitoring and
evaluation of FUNBIO performance (see Annex 12).
44.    Procurement Arrangements. A Brazilian Biodiversity Fund would be established and the
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund would be applied over a 15-year period, as shown in Schedule A-2
Project . The selection of the Fund asset manager would be carried out in accordance with the August
1981 Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency. Only the interest and a portion of the capital of the fund would be used (estimated
US$2.5 million per year with a limit of US$3 million out the principal of the GEF Trust Fund Grant)
to finance sub-project contracts and recurrent costs of FUNBIO that would be endowed with the
sinking fund. Financial management fees (1-1.5% of capital) would also be used to pay the asset
manager for services. Consequently, given the unique nature of this project, the standard procurement
arrangements may not be meaningfully applied since the amounts of each expenditure cannot be
predicted beforehand.
45.    Procurement concerns would involve: (i) expenditures of about US$500,000 per year to
FUNBIO for salaries, maintenance, materials, minor equipment, travel expenses, and consultant
services; and (ii) expenditures of US$500,000 per year (maximum) for individual sub-project contracts
throughout Brazil. These expenditures would involve minor equipment, materials, travel expenses,
and consultant services. Purchases would be dispersed in time and space over the period of the project
(three to five years) and would be implemented by different environmental agencies (such as
universities, institutes, and NGOs). For these reasons, packaging of procurement across sub-projects
would be difficult. Also, because of the dispersed nature of expenditures under Project II, it is
estimated that there would be no international competitive bidding. Most purchases would be expected
to be made in accordance with shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. In order to ensure that
Bank procedures are followed, FUNBIO would prepare for Bank review a specific procurement
program in the context of its annual operating plan, based on the guidelines described in Schedule B,
Project II.
46.    Asset Manager. The funds deposited in the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund for investment (from
the GEF Trust Fund and other sources) would be managed by an off-shore asset manager. Terms of
reference and selection criteria to choose the asset manager have been agreed between Bank, FGV and
MMA (Annex 9, Attachment 1). A financial consultant selected by FGV and appointed by the Bank is
developing a long list of potential candidates for asset managers. FGV and FUNBIO's Board
representatives will invite a short list of firms, evaluate proposals and select the asset manager. As a
condition of Bank Board approval. the asset manager selection was satisfactory to the Bank (para. 54-
a). Funds from the GEF Trust Fund would be managed by the selected asset manager in accordance
with investment objectives and guidelines defined by FUNBIO's Board of Directors and specified in
the contract between FGV and the asset manager, which is subject to Bank approval (Annex 9).
Between negotiations and effectiveness, the Bank would review and approve the draft contract between



22
FGV and the asset manager, as well as the detailed investment guidelines for the asset manager. As a
condition of Bank Board approval, detailed investment guidelines for the asset manager were approved
by the Bank (para. 54-b). Prior to effectiveness. FGV would sign a contract with the asset manager
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55-c).
47.   Disbursements: The GEF Trust Fund grant would be disbursed in several tranches, as
indicated in Schedule B-2, Project II. The Bank would deposit an initial amount equivalent to US$9.7
million into the asset manager's account after FGV signs a contract with the asset manager satisfactory
to the Bank, and after the Grant Agreement with FGV becomes effective. For retroactive expenditures
and for the first three months of operational expenditures of FUNBIO (after the effectiveness date)
another initial deposit of US$300,000 would also be disbursed into an operation account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. Additional deposits into the fund would be triggered by
demonstrated donations to FUNBIO in the ratio of two (GEF Trust Fund) to one (other sources) (US$5
million). The funds could be raised in tranches, US$250,000 at a time, each tranche triggering a new
release of funds from GEF Trust Fund until all GEF funding is committed. Contracts with donors and
bank statements showing deposits from these donations to FUNBIO's asset manager account would
serve as means of verification. To ensure adequate capital preservation and reasonable earnings of the
GEF Trust Fund proceeds, a specific rule limiting overall annual fund expenditures and capital
invasion would be kept. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the limit on capital invasion
would be US$3 million equivalent per year out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant (para.
53-h). Although the sinking fund would be operational for at least 15-year with the US$20 million
from the GEF Trust Fund proceeds and with the US$5 million required from FUNBIO's fund raising
efforts, the ultimate goal of the fund would be to grow and continue beyond this time frame and this
amount. The 15 years time frame was adopted to ensure that an adequate amount of funds to operate
FUNBIO and run a grants program would be available every year (US$2.5 to 3 million). It is
expected that aside from the required US$5 million in cash (see above), FUNBIO would seek
additional resources (not linked to GEF Trust Fund disbursements) for its own operations and for
support of biodiversity sub-projects, through donations from national and international corporations,
foundations, possible in-kind donations and licensing or royalty agreements, agencies, and bilateral
donors. It is expected that the fund would grow through fund-raising activities, and last well beyond
the 15-year horizon. FUNBIO's Board of Directors would determine the best mechanism to raise
contributions, including matching funds from approved sub-project implementing entities.
48.   Auditing. At negotiations, agreement was reached that independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank would be contracted to carry out annual external audits of FGV and FUNBIO's accounts and
activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The audit report for FGV and
FUNBIO would provide a separate opinion regarding its project accounts, SOEs, and financial
statements, as well as a management report analyzing overall financial management, control, and
effectiveness. The audit report for the asset manager would be similar, but would not include an
opinion regarding SOEs and project accounts. Within six months following the close of each fiscal
year, the results of financial audits would be made available to FUNBIO's Board of Directors,
founders, donors, and members, as well as the Government and the Bank (para. 53-i). At negotiations,
agreement was reached that FUNBIO would use the services of Price Waterhouse for purposes of
FUNBIO's auditing.



23
49.    Annual Operating Plans and Proeress Reports. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
the Executive Director of FUNBIO would prepare Annual Operating Plans (POA) to be submitted to
the Bank for approval by November 15 of the year before (para. 53-j). The Annual Operating Plans
would include a statement of specific objectives, a description of the activities, expected outputs,
monitorable indicators, detailed estimated budgets and procurement plans. The Executive Director of
FUNBIO would track FUNBIO's activities, including administration of the fund and sub-project
information provided by the grant recipients and independent evaluations. At negotiations, agreement
was reached that the Executive Director would submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank, tracking
physical and financial performance targets, by March 31 and September 30 of each year (para. 53-k).
Agreement was also reached that the first report (due in March 31) would consist of an interim analysis
of implementation progress while the second one (due in September 30) full analysis of progress. A
model report would be sent by the Bank to FUNBIO before the first report is due.
50.   Monitoring and Evaluation. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the Bank would
received the project performance monitoring indicators by the end of January. These were received
and reviewed by the Bank and have been incorporated in Annex 12. They will also be included in the
Operational Manual (para. 53-1). At negotiations, agreement was reached that FUNBIO and its
program would be subject to two outside evaluations to assess implementation progress. Independent
consultants would be enlisted in consultation with PROBIO for the Mid-Term Review (36th month) and
by project completion (fifth year) to review the progress of FUNBIO's performance, the grants
program, and individual sub-projects (para. 53-m). This evaluation would be carried out by the same
independent consultants and at the same time as PROBIO's evaluation (see para. 29).
51.    Proiect Supervision. Given the open-ended nature of the proposed project, and the practical
difficulty of continuing supervision for 15 years (the lifetime of the fund), it is expected that
supervision would take place for five years. The decision concerning the termination or extension of
supervision beyond five years would be based on the Bank's examination of project performance,
specifically, by evaluating whether the project has met its objectives. The Bank would carry out
supervision of the project twice a year.
52.   Mid-Term Review. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the Executive Director of
FUNBIO, MMA, and the Bank would conduct a Mid-Term Review at the end of the third year to
assess the project's implementation arrangements, its on-the-ground effectiveness in implementing sub-
projects, and the performance of the asset manager (para. 53-n). This review would serve three
functions: (i) fine-tune the project and determine any needed modifications; (ii) evaluate investment
performance; and (iii) serve as the launching point for the concerted fund-raising effort to increase
FUNBIO's capital.
Project Il: Agreements Reached
53.   At negotiations: The Bank, FGV and FUNBIO agreed that:
a) the overall matching contributions by implementing entities under FUNBIO's grants program
would be at least 25% and would be required in the request for proposals (para. 38);



24
b) the text of any call for proposals would be submitted to the Bank for review and approval
before it is issued (para 42);
c) if FUNBIO decides to carry out a sub-loan program for private businesses, the guidelines
included in Annex 11 (Attachment 1) would be followed and a detailed plan and
procedures would be submitted to the Bank for approval before any invitation for proposals
for sub-projects which include subloans is issued (para. 42);
d) for the first set of approved sub-projects, the Bank will review the eligibility of sub-
projects before these are submitted to the technical review (para.42);
e) a model implementing agreement would be reviewed and approved by the Bank before the
funds are disbursed to any implementing entity Para. 42);
f) project implementation would be ruled by the Operational Manual (para. 43);
g) all procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank procedures (para. 44.);
h) the limit on the use of the principal of the GEF Trust Fund Grant would be US$3 million
equivalent per year (para. 47);
i) independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be contracted to carry out annual
external audits of FGV and FUNBIO's accounts and activities in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The audit report for FGV and FUNBIO would provide a
separate opinion regarding its project accounts, SOEs, and financial statements, as well as
a management report analyzing overall financial management, control, and effectiveness.
The audit report for the asset manager would be similar, but would not include an opinion
regarding SOEs and project accounts. Within six months following the close of each fiscal
year, the results of financial audits would be made available to FUNBIO's Board of
Directors, founders, donors, and members, as well as the Government and the Bank (para.
48);
j) the Executive Director of FUNBIO would prepare Annual Operating Plans (POA) to be
submitted to the Bank for approval by November 15 of the previous year (para. 49);
k) the Executive Director would submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank, tracking
physical and financial performance targets, by March 31 and September 30 of each year
(para. 49);
l) the Bank would received the project performance monitoring indicators by the end of
January. These were received and reviewed by the Bank and have been incorporated in
Annex 12. They will also be included in the Operational Manual (para. 50);
m) FUNBIO and its program would be subject to two outside evaluations to assess
implementation progress. Independent consultants would be enlisted in consultation with



25
PROBIO for the Mid-Term Review and by project completion to review progress in
FUNBIO's performance, the grants program, and individual sub-projects (para. 50); and
n) The Executive Director of FUNBIO, MMA, and the Bank would conduct a Mid-Term
Review at the end of the third year to assess the project's implementation arrangements, its
on-the-ground effectiveness in implementing sub-projects, and the performance of the asset
manager (para. 52).
54.   Prior to Bank Board approval: the following conditions have been met:
a) the asset manager selection was found satisfactory to the Bank (para. 46); and
b) the detailed investment guidelines for the asset manager were approved by the Bank (para.
46).
55.   Prior to effectiveness:
a) FUNBIO would be operational to the satisfaction of the Bank, with the Executive Director
selected by FUNBIO's Board and hired (para. 41).
b) the final version of the Operational Manual would be approved by the Bank (para. 43); and
c) a contract with the asset manager satisfactory to the Bank would be signed (para. 46).



26                                           Schedule A
PROJECT I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Estimated Project Costs by Components
US $ '000 equivalent            %        %
PROJECT I                                                                             Foreign   Base
COMPONENTS                                             Local    Foreign   Total  Exchange  Cost
A. PRIORITY SETTING & DISSEMINATION
1. Biome-level Workshops
Amazonia                                          252         28     280       10
Cerrado & Pantanal                                234        26      260       10
Caatinga                                          270        30      300       10
Atlantic Forest                                   234        26      260       10
Continental Shelf                                 270        30      300       10
Sub-total                                            1,260      140   1,400
2. National Biodiversity Network 1                       574       826    1,400       59
3. Other Diagnostic and Dissemination Activities         687       121      808       15
Sub-total                                               2,621     1,087   3,609             18
B. MODEL BIODIVERSITY SUB-PROJECTS
1. First-round Sub-projects I
a. Genetic Resources                              558        42      600        7
b. Local Sub-projects
i. Cerrado Gallery Forests                776        24     800         3
ii. Atlantic Forest Guaraquecaba          630        78     708        11
iii. Atlantic Forest Linhares & Soreta    637        63      700        9
iv. Caatinga Brejos de Altitude           635        95      730       13
Sub-total                                      3,236      302   3,538              18
2. Second-round Sub-projects                           5,740      3,826    9,566      40   48
Sub-total                                                 8,976     4,128   13,104
C. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION (MMA & CNPq)                    1,853         -   1,853        0    9
PROJECT I - BASELINE COSTS                                  13,350     5,216  18,566
Contingencies *                                              1,205       230   1,435       16    7
PROJECT I -TOTAL                                           14,555     5,445  20,000              100
*Physical and price contingencies were averaged to 7%
1- Budget limits, including contingencies, were agreed with each beneficiary



27                                         Schedule A
BRAZIL                                       PROJECT II
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND PROJECT (FUNBIO)
PROJECT BUDGET
USS 000 equivalent
For Years 1-15
REVENUES
GEF Sinking Fund (1)       34,507
TOTAL                      34,507
COMPONENT COSTS                                       % Foreign
Sub Grants                 26,837                30%                  78%
Administration (2)           7,670               20%                  22%
TOTAL                       34,507               28%                 100%
DETAILED ADMINISTRATION COSTS
Years (3)    Years   Total    Annual
1-5      6-15              Average
Salaries                            1,615     3,400     5,015      340
Executive Director         380       800       1.180     80
Program Assistant          190       400       590       40
Secretary                  119       250       369       25
Technical Assistant        119       250       369       25
Benefits (4)               808       1,700    2,508      170
Office Expenses                      95        200       295       20
Printing and services      24         50        74        5
Equipment/Supplies         71        150       221        15
Travel and Representation            190       400       590       40
Other Services                       380       800      1,180      80
FGV services (5)           238       500       738       50
Consultants                143       300       443        30
Contingencies                        190       400       590       40
TOTAL ADMINISTRATION                2,470     5,200     7,670      520
1. Generated by GEF Trust Fund and made available to the program for sub-project activities.
See investment analysis for details( Annex 9).
2. As a percentage of total costs, this is generally in line with other GEF Trust Fund projects.
Also, the percentage will decline as additional private contributions are raised in years 6-15.
3. Assumes that costs in Year 1 of the project are 75 percent of annual average costs.
4. Benefits are currently under negotiation.
5. FGV will provide full office support to the project.



28                                              Schedule B
PROJECT I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(USS '000) equivalent    TOTAL
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                               ICB  1    NCB 2   Other         Arount
Workshops, Part A-1 and A-3
-- Goods                                                                 531  3       531
(531)        (531)
-- Consulfing Services                                                 1,671  4      1,671
(565)        (565)
-- Recufrent Costs                                                       138  5        138
(41)         (41)
National Biodiversity Network, Part A-2
--Civ Works                                                               62  3        62
(62)         (62)
-- Goods                                           572  1                             572
(572)                              (572)
-- Consulfing Services                                                   652  4       652
(190)        (190)
- Recurrent Costs                                                        114  6       114
(29)         (29)
First Round Sub-Project Contracts
-- Civ Works                                                             152  3       152
(152)        (152)
-Goods                                                                   840  3       840
(840)        (840)
-- Consulting Services                                                 1,738  4      1,738
(520)        (520)
- Recurrent Costs                                                        808  6       808
(202)        (202)
Second Round Sub-Project Contracts*
-- Civil Works                                                           220  3       220
(220)        (220)
-Goods                                                                 3,405  3      3,405
(3,405)      (3,405)
- Consulting Services                                                  5,920  4      5,920
(2,224)      (2,224)
-- Recurrent costs                                                     1,324  6      1,324
(448)        (448)
Project Administration
-- Consulting Services                                                 1,576  4      1,576
(0)          (0)
- Recurrent Costs                                                        277  5        277
(0)          (0)
TOTAL ESTIMATED  COSTS                             572                19,428       20,000
(572)               (9,428)     (10,000)
1. ICB u International Competitive Bidding
2. NCB - National Competitive Bidding
3. Shopping procedures
4. Procurement of consultants and training services
5. Direct purchase
(Numbers in parenthesis reflect GEF Trust Fund financing)
* Recurrent costs include small materials and supplies and travel expenses



29                                 Schedule B
PROJECT II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND PROJECT (FUNBIO)
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Small Civil Works under the project would be geographically scattered. Since the largest
contract is not expected to exceed US$300,000, it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be
interested. Small works would be procured under lump-sum fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. Contracts
for goods are not expected to exceed US$100,000 per project beneficiary, and would be awarded
through national or international shopping. If expenditures exceed US$300,000 for small works and
US$100,000 for goods, contracts would be procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Recurrent costs needed in the execution of sub-projects would
include materials and supplies and travel expenses, and would be procured through direct purchase.
Procurement under sub-projects which are implemented by private sector entities would be undertaken
in accordance with established commercial practices in the sector, provided that these are acceptable to
the Bank. The threshold contract values indicated above for purchases of civil works and goods,
respectively, would also apply to procurement using commercial practices. The selection and
appointment of consultants would follow the August 1981 Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. Contracts with consulting firms
valued at US$50,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank review (terms of reference, letter of
invitation, recommendation for award and proposed contract). For individual consultants, prior Bank
review (terms of reference, qualifications and conditions of employment) would be required for
contracts valued at US$30,000 or more. Below these limits, the Bank's prior review would apply only
to the terms of reference. The use of standard documentation for the employment of consultants
(letters of invitation and forms of contract) would be agreed with the Bank. Ex-post review would be
carried out by Bank supervision missions, at which time Bank staff would review in detail the
procurement procedures used.



30                                         Schedule B-1
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
Category                                       Amount                      %  of Expenditures
from                  financed by the Bank
GEF Trust Fund
(US$000)
Part Al and A3 (see Schedule A-I)
goods                                                 502                  100%
services                                              470                   30%
recurrent costs'                                       33                   25%
Part A2 - Information Network
works                                                  62                  100%
goods                                                 572                  100%
services                                              190                   30%
recurrent costs                                        29                   25%
Part B1- First Round Sub-projects
works                                                 152                  100%
goods                                                 840                  100%
services                                              520                   30%
recurrent costs                                       202                   25%
Part B2 - Second Round Sub-projects
works                                                 190                  100%
goods                                               2.932                  100%
services                                            1,580                   30%
recurrent costs                                       292                   25%
Unallocated                                         1,435                  100%
TOTAL                                              10.000
* recurrent costs include materials and supplies and travel expenses



31                                 Schedule B-1
Project 11
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND PROJECT (FUNBIO)
Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
US$10.0 million would be disbursed to the sinking fund upon effectiveness of the Grant Agreement
and additional disbursements to the sinking fund would be made in the ratio of 2 (GEF Trust Fund) to
1 (private matching contributions). The funds would be raised by FUNBIO in tranches, US$250,000
at a time, each tranche triggering a new release of funds from the GEF Trust Fund. Contracts with
donors and bank statements showing deposits from these donations to FUNBIO's asset
manager account would serve as means of verification, as well as any other means acceptable
to the Bank.
Estimated GEF Trust Fund Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
World Bank Fiscal Year                1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Annual                              10,000   2,500   2,500   2,500  2,500
Cumulative                          10,000  12,500  15,000  17,500 20,000



32                              Schedule B-2
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PROBIO)
Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
GEF Trust Fund Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
World Bank Fiscal Year              1996    1997   1998   1999   2000        2001
Annual                             1,150   3,100  2,150   1,200  1,200       1,200
Cumulative                         1,150   4,250  6,400   7,600  8,800    10,000
External Funds Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
World Bank Fiscal Year              1996    1997   1998    1999   2000       2001
Annual                             2,300   6,200  4,300   2,400  2,400       2,400
Cumulative                         2,300   8,500 12,800  15,200 17,600    20,000
* Includes funds from the GEF Trust Fund and Government counterpart



33                                 Schedule C
PROJECT I &II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROBIO AND FUNBIO
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:     50 months (January 1991 to March 1995)
Prepared by:               Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon
Non-Governmental Organizations, academic institutions and business
companies. World Bank: Claudia Sobrevila & Daniel Gross (LAIER)
Peer reviewers:            Susan Shen (EA1AE) & Michele de Nevers (LA2EU)
Thomas Lovejoy (Smithsonian Institution) & Jorge Sober6n, Comision
Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad (CONABIO)
First Bank Mission:        March 1991
Appraisal Mission:         March 1995 (Post-appraisal mission, July 1995)
Date of
Negotiations:              December 1995
Planned Date of
Effectiveness:             April 1996
Supervision Plan:
Project I                  Missions are planned for 4-6 month intervals to supervise progress.
Three years after effectiveness, a Mid-Term Review is planned, during
which project implementation and monitoring and evaluation
procedures will be assessed and changes introduced as necessary.
Technical expertise: biodiversity specialist, ecologist, community
development specialist, and natural resources economist.
Project II                 Given the open-ended nature of the proposed project, and the practical
difficulty of continuing supervision for 15 years (the lifetime of the
fund), it is expected that supervision would take place for five years.
The decision concerning the termination or extension of supervision
beyond five years would be based on the Bank's examination of project
performance; specifically, by evaluating whether the project has met its
objectives. The project would be supervised twice a year. Technical
expertise: institutional development specialist, biodiversity and
environmental specialists, social scientist, and financial analyst.






PART II: TECHNCAL ANNEXES






Annex I
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT I
BIOME-LEVEL ASSESSMENTS



3 4                                  Annex 1-A
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT I
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR BIOME-LEVEL ASSESSMENTS
Background
Priority Setting and Integration of Biodiversity Conservation Efforts. Brazil's enormous size
and diversity of biomes create special difficulties for the conservation and management of biological
diversity. National institutions are not well equipped to allocate resources effectively to the different
biomes. Each is unique and has its particular needs. There is a lack of scientific information to
determine the location and condition of the rare and threatened species and habitats, and to set
priorities for investments in their conservation. Despite five and a half decades of investments in
protected areas systems, despite substantial ex situ conservation efforts, and despite recent adoption of
policies and creation of a national environment fund for NGOs and municipalities (FNMA), native
habitats and biodiversity continue to be at risk.
In part, this is due to the difficulty for national and state institutions to analyze the
effectiveness of the various conservation efforts to date, learn lessons from them, build on those that
have been successful, and add new practices such as sustainable use and tourism to the traditional array
of protected area management techniques. There is no single program that would fit the needs of all
the different biomes. Although several recent workshops and studies have made progress in this effort,
there is as yet no ongoing process or entity responsible for identifying urgent actions, responding to the
needs of the distinct regions, allocating resources in such a way as to meet the most urgent needs of
each region, or monitoring the effectiveness of various types of investments.
Workshop Objectives
1. Establish georeferenced regional data bases containing information on the distribution of species
and ecosystems, land use patterns, and socioeconomic trends.
2. Consolidate information on regional biodiversity, including endemic, threatened, and vulnerable
species.
3. Prepare analysis of current and potential efforts for the conservation and sustainable use of
biological resources.
4. Identify the causes of habitat degradation, including economic trends and government policies, and
their respective influence on biodiversity.
5. Identify priority activities for the conservation of biodiversity in each Brazilian biome.
6. Identify opportunities and options for the sustainable use of biological resources.
7. Evaluate the costs of biodiversity protection.
8. Disseminate the findings of the workshops.



35                                     Annex 1-A
Project I
Workshop Procedures
Each biome-level workshop would be divided into three phases: (1) preparation, (ii) workshop
event and dissemination, and (iii) follow-up. Budgets would be prepared discriminating each of the
three phases.
1.     Preparation
(a)    Produce base maps digitalized in the GIS format compatible with Arc-Info for the
incorporation of biome data, as described in (b) below.
(b)    At the beginning of each meeting, workshop participants would receive maps on a
scale of 1:2,000,000 containing the following information:
i. Political divisions, hydrographic features, and geographic irregularities.
ii. Remaining natural areas of the biome, based on satellite images.
iii. Conservation Units (direct and indirect use) and other protected areas, both public
(federal, state, local) and private.
iv. Demographic characteristics and socioeconomic indicators.
v. Land use patterns and other human pressure on the areas.
vi. Location and status of collections of key plant and animal groups.
vii. Distribution of biological/ecological communities and environmental units.
viii.Biogeographic provinces.
ix. Distribution of rare, endemic, and migratory species.
x. Species diversity.
xi. Distribution of traditionally cultivated species and related wild species.
(c)    Definition of key themes would be determined by participants at the beginning of each
workshop, covering the following areas:
i. Characterization, quantification, and critical evaluation of available information.
ii. Evaluation of the representativeness of the conservation effort.
iii. Evaluation of biodiversity knowledge and utilization.
iv. Socioeconomic trends, public policies, and human pressures influencing
biodiversity.
v. Economic factors influencing the use and degradation of biodiversity.
2.     Participants
(a)    Members of the scientific community.
(b)    Members of the coniservationist and environmentalist community.
(c)    Producers and users of biological resources.
(d)    Government agencies (federal, state, and local).



36                                      Annex 1-A
Project I
3.     Workshop Organization
(a)    Location.
(b)    Duration.
(c)    Definition of workshop agenda, thematic groups by the Organizing Commission.
(d)    Organization of participants into thematic groups according to specialty.
(e)    Scheduling of group and plenary sessions.
4.     Workshop, Results
(a)    Priority Actions
i.  Define priorities and necessary activities for biodiversity conservation.
ii. The analysis and recommendations of the workshops should be framed not only in
terms of species distribution but also in terms of habitat and ecosystem protection.
iii. Produce maps indicating priority areas for conservation and inventories.
iv. Define institutional responsibilities.
v. Design program to follow up on workshop proposals.
(b)    Characterization of principal biotic communities of Brazilian biomes
i.  Current, indexed bibliography.
ii. Maps of biogeographic provinces or regions.
iii. Analysis of abundance of key indicator species in Brazilian biomes.
iv. Analysis of flora, fauna, and ecological communities.
v. Assessment of vulnerable and threatened species, and degree of risk.
(c)    Analysis of socioeconomic trends
i.  Potential for the utilization of natural areas in Brazilian biomes and their economic
importance for human communities.
ii. Social impact of the conservation of Brazilian biomes.
iii. Access of communities and social sectors to the biological resources of Brazilian
biomes.
iv. Public policies affecting biodiversity (transportation, energy, production
infrastructure, land use, taxes, etc.).
v. Economic and social trends influencing biodiversity use and degradation.
(d)    Definition of conservation needs
i.  Map of priority areas for biological conservation.
ii. Determination of biological importance of sub-regions or fragments.
iii. Map of areas in urgent need of conservation.
iv. Prerequisite social conditions for public support of biodiversity conservation.
v. Representativeness of existing Conservation Units.
vi. Current and future costs of operating a network of Brazilian biome reserves.
vii. Identification of public policies supporting biodiversity conservation.
viii. Compatibility with recommendations of National Biodiversity strategy being
prepared by Government.



37                                    Annex 1-A
Project I
(e)    Dissemination of workshop findings through print and electronic media. Organizers
and participants would make regular use of the Biodiversity Information Network to
disseminate bibliographical and other sources, and create user groups.
(f)    Report on the logistics, difficulties, omissions, and achievements of the workshop.
Minimum Criteria for the Selection of Coordinating Institutions
I1.    Each workshop would be coordinated by institutions which, alone or together, would meet the
following qualifications:
(a)    Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must be legally established and qualified to
coordinate and carry out a workshop.
(b)    Workshop coordinators must have demonstrated technical capacity in the following
areas:
i.  Conservation and monitoring of biodiversity.
ii. Biological inventories and data organization, management, and processing.
iii. Workshop design and implementation.
iv. Production of data bases and GIS.
v. Analysis of economic and political strategies related to biodiversity.
(c)    Proposed methodologies for the organization and implementation of workshops must be
feasible and compatible with the stated objectives.
(d)    At least 50% of the personnel needed to develop and implement the workshop must be
provided by the potential coordinating institution(s) (not including research preceding
the workshop).
(e)    Potential workshop coordinators must have obtained past financing from outside
sources for the development of projects.
(f)    Coordinating institutions must demonstrate competence to supervise the follow-up of
priority actions defined by the workshop.
2.     Three to six organizations will be invited to participate as workshop coordinators of any one
workshop. Invited coordinating institutions may work in consortia with other organizations
which may or may not appear on the list of invited institutions.



38                                     Annex 1-A
Project I
Selection Procedures
1.     Preparationi of a list of institutions to be invited to apply for workshop coordination.
Confirmationi of the list by the Bank. A letter of invitationi, satisfactory to the Bank, would be sent to
organizations with demonistrated capacity to fulfill the role of workshop coordinator for the respective
biomes. Letters of invitation may also be sent to those institutions recommended by the target
institutions. If a consortium of workshop coordinators is to be organized, the proposal submitted by
the invited institutions should designate which orgaiiizationi would serve as head of the consortium.
The letter of invitation would conijain the componenits and the geographic limits to be covered by each
workshop, and a proposed standard budget.
2.     Project proposals for the design and implemnenitationi of workshops must be submitted to the
Ministry of the Environmient, Water Resources, and the Legal Amazon within 60 days from the date of
the letter of invitation.
(a)    The project proposal must conisist of:
i.  Complete identificationi and description of the social objectives of the
organization submitting the proposal.
ii. Staff description, including description of positions within the organization and
the nature of the work performed by each staff member.
iii. Resumes of personnel who would participate in the project, describing the nature,
duration and frequency of their past contributions to the organization; education;
employment history; publications; and relevant experience.
iv. List of projects completed by the organization, including workshops, seminars,
consultancies, studies, and environmental impact assessments.
v. List of publications by the organization related to the theme of the workshop.
vi. Description of the methodology to be used in the design and implementation of
the workshop.
vii. Timetable of preparation, implementation, and follow-up activities.
viii.Information about the financing already obtained for activities related to the theme
of the workshop.
ix. Proposed budget with notes explaining any significant differences from budgets
proposed in letters of invitation.
x. If the candidate institutionis intend to work as a consortium, proposed terms of
agreement governing the administration and function of the consortium.
(b)    A team composed of qualified MMA officials and noted experts who are not directly or
indirectly involved in the proposed projects would evaluate the proposal, including the



39                                    Annex I-A
Project I
technical, methodological and budgetary aspects. The evaluation by the MMA
will be completed within 30 days of the deadline for submitting the proposal.
(c)    The choice of coordinating institutions would be made according to the selection
criteria described above and consideration of the proposed methodology, technical
competence (see (a), above) and proposed budget. Considerations of quality will
prevail in the selection process; in case of a tie, the institution(s) with the lowest
proposed costs will be chosen.
(d)    Final selection of coordinating institutions will be submitted for Bank approval.
Implementation of the Workshop
1.    A Draft Agreement between MMA and coordinating institutions shall be prepared according to
World Bank procedures and Instruldo Normativa No. 2 of April 19, 1993, No. 6 of October 13, 1993
of the Secretariat of the National Treasury, and Law No. 8,694 of August 12, 1993. Approval of
financial plans, which may include indirect costs to cover small administrative expenses for
accounting, rent, communications, fuel, transportation, electricity, and water, to the extent that these
costs are not included in direct costs. The budget would be subject to negotiation after the choice of
the coordinating institution.
2.     Each stage of the workshop would be implemented by the professionals cited in the proposal.
Any substitution must be previously approved by MMA. The contracting of consultants would follow
Bank guidelines.



Detailed Activities and Costs of One Model Assessment for the Cerrado (detailed costs are included in Annex 7)
Compoilelnt         Activities and Sub-Activities          Inputs           Outputs                         Impact Indicators
1. Preparation of information base for workshop                                                                                         US$140,000
1. Establish coordinating                               Identification and             Appropriate range of institutional
commnittee, set timetable and                           recruitment of key             participants are involved
workplan for preparation,                               participants; final
workshop, dissemination phases.                         schedule and TORs for          Key Issues are defied
preparation work
Participant groups estahlislied
___________   _ ___________________  Inforimiation   flow     thioLughi BIN
2. Prepare background working                           Working papers and
papers on flora, fauna, land use,                       identification of key
vegetation, etc.                                        issues to be addressed at
workshop
3. Compile bibliographies, create                       Base maps, bibliograplhy,
base maps, establish electronic                         lists of informiiationi
forum through the Biodiversity                          sources, institutions.
Information Network (BIN).                              databases (GIS),
identificationi of specialist
_____________________________________   _________.       groups
II. Workshop, integration of results, definition of priorities, dissemination of findings, formation of specialist groups                UJS10(0,000
1. Distribute background                                Detailed agenda for
material, working papers, base                          workshop defined and
maps to key participants                                agreed
2. Hold workshop, integrate                             Issues and priorities          Quality and acceptance of conclusions
findings, develop maps, draft                           established
priority action plan                                                                   Definitioni of concrete priority actioni
plan
Establishlmienit of electronic foIum u:i3
Compatibility and linkage witl i
_____ _____ ____   ____ ____ _____ ____ _____ _____  _ __________ _    __  National  Biodiversity    Strategy  -



Component         Activities and Sub-Activities     Inputs          Outputs                     Impact Indicators
3. Disseminate findings, produce                  Publications and other
final synthesis, establish                        products, draft priority
specialist group networks                         action plan
through the BIN
4. Define follow-up program                       Composition and TORs
for coordinating group
defined
111. Follow-up: establish permanent working group to revise periodically priorities, develop priority action plan, and define monitoring
program,
US$20,000
1. Establish coordinating group                   Annual reports. periodic    Progress toward priority goals
to track implementation of                        updates
priority action plan, revise and                                              Measurable results related to
update priorities as necessary                                                biodiversity conservation
2. Monitor status of                              Regular reporting on
implementation                                    status of priority targets
and actions
3. Propose projects to address                    New projects identified.
priorities                                        and proposed



42                                         Annex l-C
Project I
Implementation Timetable of Biome-Level Assessments
Cost ($)1.4M           | Phases 1, 11 & III]                     Four-month intervals (project years I & 2)
$ (x 1000)  Biome-Level Priority Assessments                     1         2         3         4         5        6
260                     1. Cerrado & Pantanal
140                  * Preparation
100                  * Workshop
20                   * Follow-up
260                    2. Atlantic Forest
140                  * Preparation
100                  * Workshop
20                   * Follow-up
300                    3. Caatinga
180                  * Preparation
100                  * Workshop
20                   * Follow-up                                                                    *         *
300                    4. Continental Shelf
180                  * Preparation
100                  * Workshop
20                   * Follow-up
280                    5. Amazonia
160                   * Preparation
100                   * Workshop
20                   * Follow-up
National Biodiversity Strategy2
iPhase 1: Preparation includes background studies, bibliographic review, database development and base map
preparation. Phase 11: Workshop includes workshop, integration of results and dissemination of findings. Phase
III: Follow-up includes proposal development for priority actions and definition of monitoring program.
2National Biodiversity Strategy preparation process will proceed in conjunction with the biome-level analysis and
incorporate findings of the biome-level workshops.



4 3                                    Annex 2
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PLAN FOR A NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY STRATEGY
The Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon (MMA) has plans for
developing a National Biodiversity Strategy in compliance with the United Nations Convention on Biological
Diversity, to which Brazil is a signatory. The Ministry laid out the following tentative plans for
development of a strategy. Funding for the entire sequence outlined below is available to the MMA, and
consultants have been identified to carry out the first steps as outlined below.
Under the terms of the Convention on Biological Diversity (Article 6), Brazil would develop a
National Biodiversity Strategy. The exercise would begin with a review of each chapter in the Convention
on Biological Diversity to (a) assess the status of each element of the convention in Brazil in terms of which
agencies are responsible, what structures exist for complying with agreements, what resources are allocated,
what gaps exist, what are the potential obstacles and/or opportunities; and (b) propose priorities, guidelines
and instruments for action. The review would consider genetic resources in terms of their economic and
non-economic benefits; ways of returning benefits from biodiversity to communities that are dependent upon
them or serve as their custodians; and evaluate conservation efforts and human resource development needs.
This review would be circulated as a draft report for comment and review as shown below and finally would
be presented to the Interministerial Commission on Sustainable Development (CIDES) for review and formal
approval as a National Strategy. The final disposition of the report would depend on the CIDES and the
Executive Branch.
The final report would not make specific allocations of resources to biodiversity but would set goals
and identify areas where action is needed, and set guidelines for policy development in different sectors
including sectors such as agriculture, mining, transport, land-use and zoning activities, industry, health and
sanitation, and urban development. Specific action plans would be developed in each Ministry or
Government agency following the foninal adoption of the strategy. According to the timetable outlined
below, development of the proposed strategy would probably precede most of the biome-level workshops. It
was agreed that the results of the Nationial Biodiversity Strategy exercise would be taken into account in the
preparation, discussions, and recomimlendations of these workshops.



4 4                                  Annex 2
Project I
Steps Towards Development of a National Biodiversity Strategy
Step                  Description                         Product               Estimated
Completion Date
1     Review all Chapters of the Convention on    Draft for limited internal  July 1996
Biological Diversity assessing the status of   circulation.
each article in Brazil and proposing
possible initiatives for compliance as
needed.
2     Compile comments; revise working        Report: "Basis for a National    November 1996
document.                              Biodiversity Strategy"
3     Hold a National Workshop on Biodiversity   Workshop Results: revised  December 1996
Strategy                              report.
4     Hold broad national consultations involving  Compiled results of     April 1997
government agencies, academic and      consultation as a Proposed
scientific institutions, private sector,  National Biodiversity Strategy
NGOs, etc. providing input and comments
to the Workshop Report.
5     Present Report to Interministerial      Resolution of CIDES or       Late 1997
Commission on Sustainable Development    Presidential Decree
(CIDES)
.



4 5                                    Annex 3
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT I
SUMMARY OF THE BIODIVERSITY INFORMATION NETWORK - BRAZIL
The Andre Tosello Foundation for Tropical Research and Technology (FTPT) has already
established leadership in developing Brazil's biodiversity information systems and access to such
systems worldwide. The Foundation has been a leader in several international forums sponsored by
UNEP and the Brazilian Government on establishment of the international Biodiversity Information
Network (BIN21). This mechanism for linking information relevant to biodiversity and making it
widely available by electronic and other means to support the Convention on Biological Diversity and
Agenda 21 is alreadyfunctioning, and has its secretariat at FTPT. The Tropical Data Base node
(Brazil) is maintained by FTPT. At present, there are 14 international nodes in the BIN21 network.
FTPT has already secured contracts with research and other institutions agreeing to make data
available to the system, and its exceptionally qualified technical staff have addressed issues of data
format, access, etc. This network is already in use through the FTPT Internet gateway. Because of
the currently limited access to the Internet in Brazil by non-government and non-academic users, FTPT
also provides access through a dial-up service called Phoenix, available by subscription (at nominal
rates) to service users who do not have Internet access. Plans for the workshops proposed under the
Brazilian Biodiversity Project have already been posted to the network.
FTPT has clearly established itself as the leader in electronic dissemination of biodiversity
information. To select another institution to implement this component would unnecessarily duplicate
a system already under construction and well positioned to succeed.
The overall goal of this component is to establish a nationwide computer network to facilitate
information exchange and communications among institutions, organizations, and individuals within
Government, academic, NGO, and private sectors involved in activities related to biodiversity. The
project design follows the principle of a distributed database network with participating institutions
responsible for design, maintenance, and updating of their own databases, and the role of the
foundation being principally that of providing an efficient user interface, providing training to users
and participants, stimulating the formation and providing services to specialist user groups, and
promoting utilization of the network by the broadest relevant constituency.
Specific objectives include: (i) establishing a coordination structure for development of the
Biodiversity Information Network in Brazil, which will provide a forum for developing framework
agreements for information sharing, defining hardware and software needs for network compatibility
and use, and identifying training needs for users; (ii) upgrading equipment, infrastructure, and staff
skills of the foundation and cooperating centers to provide data access services to the BIN and
development of technical applications; (iii) stimulating participation by a broad range of users by
providing training, organizing seminars and workshops, and establishing a cost-effective electronic
forum for special interest user groups. The BIN would explicitly provide services designed to promote
efficient information flow among the components of this project, such as establishing special interest
user groups in connection with the biome workshops, preparing workshop proceedings, and other



4 6                                    Annex 3
Project I
relevant documents available to BIN users, and providing information services to the network as a
whole.
The appraisal team reviewed the proposed schedule of objectives, activities and tasks; the
training, seminars, and workshop calendar; the budget; and technical equipment requirements with
project staff. In general, the budgets are well justified, although the detailed lists of specific equipment
items need to be revised, and specifications and costs should be updated in the Annual Operating Plan
(POA) to reflect changes in available technology. Terms of reference for personnel hired by the
project should be developed and reviewed by MMA. MMA should also review the revised equipment
list and approve plans for distribution of equipment between the Foundation and the cooperating
centers. Annual Operating Plans would be submitted to the Bank for approval before effectiveness.



4 7                                     Annex 4
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT I
SUMMARY OF THE FIRST-ROUND MODEL SUB-PROJECTS
Conservation of Plant Genetic Resources
This sub-project would serve the purpose of conserving plant genetic resources by developing
and implementing a program for the sustainable management of selected wild plant species, chosen on
the basis of their high conservation priority value and potential for sustainable economic use; and
establishing an initiative for the conservation and economic development of these genetic resources.
To this end, the sub-project will carry out the following activities: (i) determine, survey, and map the
distribution of target species population within three selected existing reserves; (ii) characterize the
current genetic diversity of selected species and determine basic features of population biology and
reproduction ecology necessary for enhancing natural propagation and potential off-site cultivation; (iii)
provide detailed recommendations and methodological guidelines to improve management and permit
sustainable harvest of seed stock from within existing protected areas; and (iv) develop extension and
training programs to promote off-site propagation of target species and on-site management. The three
reserves include Rio Doce State Park in the state of Minas Gerais (Atlantic Forest); Brasilia National
Park (cerrado); and Ferreira Penna Ecological Station in the a Caixuana National Forest (Amazon
forest). They were chosen, in part, because they have adequate infrastructure and qualified personnel
for the maintenance and management of on-site gene banks of the selected target species, and because
they are representative of three of Brazil's main vegetation types. This sub-project would be executed
by a team at the National Research Center for Genetic Resources and Biotechnology (CENARGEN),
an affiliate of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Agency (EMBRAPA), and a leading organization for
the conservation and development of genetic resources in Brazil.
Conservation and Restoration of Biodiversity in Gallery Forests of the Cerrado
This sub-project would focus on the conservation, restoration and boundary stabilization of
natural and partially degraded gallery forests in the Federal District and adjacent regions of Minas
Gerais and Goias States. The initial sites are near Paracatu, Minas Gerais. Gallery forests along the
streams and watercourses cover about 5% (100,000 km2) of the 2 million km2 large cerrado biome that
harbors about half the vertebrate species of this biome. These forest remnants serve as refuges and
corridors for vertebrate species which also occur in adjacent habitats. The project has three principal
objectives:
(1)    To establish baseline knowledge for three focal areas of the biota, land use practices,
land cover, socio-economic conditions, and identify principal impacts and factors affecting the
gallery forest remnants and adjacent natural habitats;
(2)    To conduct applied research and pilot interventions for restoration and stabilization of
gallery forests and adjacent natural habitats; and



4 8                                    Annex 4
Project I
(3)    To build public support and involve local communities and farmers in
restoration and stabilization of gallery forest ecosystems.
With the involvement of local residents in the design stage, this sub-project would develop
practical methods for conservation and restoration which are compatible with the productive activities
of local people. A minimum of 100 ha of degraded areas would be planted with native gallery forest
species. A network of at least ten reference farms would be established. The sub-project would be
implemented by a team representing the Agricultural Research Center of the Cerrado (CPAC) of
EMBRAPA (coordination), the University of Brasflia, the Remote Sensing Center of IBAMA, and the
Agricultural Colonization Company (CAMPO).
Management of Conservation Units in the Guaraquecaba Region in Parana state
This sub-project would contribute to the conservation of the largest Atlantic Forest remnant by
improving management of conservation units in a relatively isolated 310,000-ha coastal area in eastern
Parand state. The area includes important estuaries, islands, marshes, coastal plains, and mountainous
areas which contain large renmants of the Atlantic forest biome characterized by high degrees of
endemism and a high proportion of endangered species . At present, 40% of the area is protected in six
conservation units, which is likely to be insufficient to sustain the ecosystem in the long run in the
absence of integrated management of adjacent areas. The project implementation plan and budget are
organized around three principal objectives:
(1)    Strengthening the technical capacity of local government, the university and NGOs for
conservation and land use planning and management, including execution of a rapid ecological
assessment, updating of management plans for existing protected areas, and establishment of an
environmental information system;
(2)    Building public awareness of environmental issues and expanding community
participation in pilot programs for environmentally compatible intensification of agriculture;
and
(3)    Establishing an NGO-academic-government partnership for development and
implementation of an integrated coastal zone management plan for the region.
The project would be implemented by the Wildlife Protection Society (SPVS), Curitiba
(coordination), the Federal University of Parana, IBAMA, and the Environmental Institute of Parana
(IAP). A cooperative agreement outlining the roles, responsibilities, and obligations of the
collaborating institutions will be negotiated and signed prior to project effectiveness.
Conservation and Restoration of Atlantic Forest in Tablelands of Linhares, Espirito Santo
This sub-project would develop a technical and scientific model for biodiversity conservation
in important remnants of Atlantic forest in northern Espirito Santo. Activities would include: (i)
assessment of the functions of biodiversity in ecosystem dynamics; (ii) dissemination of information
through publications; (iii) environmental education; (iv) film production; (v) scientific workshops; and
(vi) planting and reforestation. The activities would be carried out in the Linhares Forest Reserve,



4 9                                  Annex 4
Project I
Espirito Santo State, which belongs to the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), the
neighboring Sooretama Biological Reserve, which is under the management of IBAMA and the
surrounding private properties. The total sub-project area is 50,000 ha. It would be implemented by a
team of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (coordination), IBAMA, the University of Sao Paulo,
EMBRAPA, and CVRD.
Restoration and Management of the Natural Ecosystems of Brejos de Altitude in Pernambuco and
Paraiba
This sub-project would contribute to the conservation of the threatened ecosystems of the
Eastern Escarpment (Borborema) in Pernambuco and Parafba States. Brejos de altitude represent the
most humid area in the semi-arid Northeast and have a unique fauna and flora. They represent the
most threatened ecosystem in the Brazilian Northeast. Activities, inter alia, would consist of land and
water use characterization, biological inventories, environmental education, and participatory
development of land use zoning plans. The sub-project would conserve a pilot area of 52 km2 and deal
more extensively with a 32,000 km2 area along the escarpment, which is located about 100 km west of
the coastline. The project would be implemented by a team of the Federal Universities of Pernambuco
(UFPE, coordination), Paraiba (UFPB), Rural Pernambuco (UFRPE) and the Northeast Ecology
Society (SNE).



5s                                     Annex 5
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT I
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Implementation of Project I would be under the authority of MMA through PRONABIO, the
National Biodiversity Program, established by the Brazilian Governrment in 1994 to promote
partnerships between the public and private sectors to support the conservation and sustainable uses of
biodiversity. Its purposes are to develop policies; promote research, information networks, and
international cooperation; assist in the standardization of instruments and methodologies; provide input
to CIDES, the Interministerial Commission on Sustainable Development; support training and
institutional strengthening; and support model projects on the conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity. The present project is PRONABIO's first project.
Structure
A Coordinating Commission manages PRONABIO, and would also be the highest decision-
making body for this project. The Coordinating Commission's 12 members are appointed by the
Government (by the respective Ministers, or by MMA) and chosen to represent the interests of
different sectors of Brazilian society. Representatives are to be chosen from MMA (one, chair),
Ministry of Foreign Affairs (one), Ministry of Science and Technology (one), Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform (one), Ministry of Health (one), Ministry of Planning (one), the academic
community (two), environmental NGOs (two), and the private (business) sector (two), to be nominated
by representative institutions and individuals of the respective sectors.
Technical Secretariat. The Technical Secretariat would be a full-time body charged with
project management and coordination, with administrative responsibility for carrying out the directives
of the Coordinating Commission. The General Coordinator for Biodiversity (appointed by MMA)
would be its Executive Secretary and Budget Officer. Professional staff would include financial,
administrative, communication/information, and logistical managers, as well as various interns. MMA
would provide staff for the Secretariat and the Chairman of the Board. The operating costs of the
Secretariat would be covered by counterpart funds. The Technical Secretariat would be charged of
supervision of biome-level assessments; the evaluation and integration of biome-level assessment and
workshop results; the formulation of a draft Biodiversity Strategy; monitoring and supervision of sub-
projects and workshops; and the dissemination of results for the whole project.
CNPq. The Brazilian Government has recommended that the National Council for Scientific
and Technological Development (CNPq), affiliated with the Ministry of Science and Technology, serve
as the Administrative Agent.



51                                      Annex 5
Project I
Operations
(1)    Responsibilities and Functions of the Coordinating Commission, Secretariat. FUNBIO and
CNPq
The Coordinating Commission's functions include: (i) discussion and approval of general
guidelines for PRONABIO; (ii) approval of priority actions of PRONABIO and for PROBIO; (iii)
approval of criteria and norms for acceptance and selection of workshops and proposals for sub-
projects, including approval of calls for proposals that may be issued for PROBIO; (iv) approval of
workshops and PROBIO's sub-projects selected by FUNBIO, except for pre-selected sub-projects of
Project I; (v) approval of contractual instruments developed by the Technical Secretariat and CNPq;
(vi) approval of annual programs and budget proposals furnished by the Secretariat; (vii) approval of
PROBIO's and PRONABIO's annual implementation reports covering technical, physical, and
financial aspects; (viii) review of independent financial and scientific audits; (ix) adjudication of
contract disputes that may arise; and (x) analysis and approval of a logical framework of goals,
indicators, and investments for each year period.
The Technical Secretariat would be responsible for administration and coordination of the day
to day work: (i) propose operating guidelines; (ii) propose priorities and actions, following the
reconmuendations of biome-level workshops, of CIDES, and commitments assumed in treaties and
conventions, such as the Convention on Biological Diversity and Agenda 21; (iii) prepare calls for
proposals for sub-projects, in collaboration with CNPq; (iv) submit sub-project reports to the
Coordinating Commission; (v) prepare and submit model contractual instruments; (vi) prepare and
submit annual plans and budgets; (vii) prepare and submit annual financial and technical reports; (viii)
prepare and submit a one year logical framework of goals, indicators, and activities; (ix) comment on
and submit to the Coordinating Commission CNPq's independent audits; (x) recommend actions related
to contractual disputes; (xi) keep the Coordinating Commission informed on implementation of the
project, including problems that arise and suggested corrections; (xii) supervise sub-projects and
assessments; (xiii) supervise the work of CNPq; (xiv) call meetings and provide technical assistance;
(xv) promote stakeholder involvement in discussions of the project by various means, including
publication of reports and an informative bulletin; (xvi) assist in the preparation of the National
Biodiversity Strategy; (xvii) circulate information to the scientific and conservation communities; and
(xviii) execute other administrative responsibilities.
CNPq's responsibilities would be to: (i) work with the Technical Secretariat to prepare calls
for proposals; (ii) contract approved sub-projects and monitor sub-project implementation; and (iii)
contract independent audits. CNPq would prepare quarterly financial statements, prepare and sign
contracts with sub-grantees, disburse funds, review statements of expenditure, maintain financial
records, and have financial statements audited annually. Quarterly financial statements would include
(a) contracted projects; (b) start-up and completion dates; (c) local and international costs incurred; (d)
disbursements made; and (e) balances. Biannual reports would include information on (a)
accomplishment of objectives, and (b) problems encountered. Legal agreements between MMA and
CNPq would include (a) clear provisions for contracting and disbursing funds from CNPq to the
beneficiary; (b) clear definition of CNPq's role in providing guidance to the beneficiaries regarding
preparation of financial reports; (c) rights and procedures for canceling the agreement; (d) the right to
impose penalties, when necessary; and (e) formula(s) to avoid inflation-related depreciation of funds.



52                                    Annex 5
Project I
(2)    Project Implementation
The project would begin with assessments and workshops to identify needs and priorities in
each of five biomes: the Cerrado, including the Pantanal and Campos Rupestres; the Caazinga and
deciduous forests; the Atlantic Forest (including Araucaria forest and Campos); the Amazon; and
islands and the continental shelf. Results and recommendations from these workshops would be
submitted to the Coordinating Commission to guide the establishment of priorities. Following these
priorities, calls would be issued for additional sub-project proposals. Members of local communities
would be consulted during the preparation of terms of reference for calls for proposals and during the
review of final reports. Each call for proposals would define funding priorities for the period. Once
the calls have been approved by the Coordinating Commission and the Bank, FUNBIO will publicize
them together with FUNBIO's calls. Efforts would be made to publicize the calls for proposals
among potentially interested and capable groups, and to provide technical assistance and guidance to
groups interested in applying for grants. FUNBIO would carry out the technical review of the
proposal submitted. Upon receipt of proposals, FUNBIO would proceed with preliminary analysis,
appointment of Evaluation Committees, gathering of any additional information and materials
necessary, and submission of these to the Committees. The Committees would review proposals
according to pre-defined criteria, and would make recommendations (not recommended, recommended
with conditions, or recommended), to be determined by a simple majority of a quorum of their
members. Rules of debate and consideration, and the format for presentation of recommendations, are
spelled out in the Operational Manual of FUNBIO.
The Technical Secretariat of PRONABIO would submit the recommendations provided by
FUNBIO to the Coordinating Commission for final approval. Upon approval, the contracting and
disbursement would be handled by CNPq.
Individual workshops and sub-projects would be implemented by the institutions and
organizations submitting successful proposals. They would be required to provide an appropriate
counterpart contribution; use funds in strict accordance with contracts; provide agreed-upon reports
and audits to CNPq; reimburse funds granted in case of non-compliance; and maintain accounts and
records sufficient to establish compliance. The Technical Secretariat staff and consultants hired by
them would visit sub-projects periodically to verify progress as reported in the progress reports and to
assist in addressing problems which might arise during implementation.



53                                    Annex 6
Project I
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT I
DRAFT GUIDELINES FOR THE OPERATIONAL MANUAL
The general topics described below, as well as Annexes 11 and 12 will be an integral part of
the Operational Manual that is currently under revision by the Bank. The final version of the
Operational Manual will be approved by the Bank before effectiveness of the Grant Agreement is
declared.
The operational manual will address the following issues:
1) Objectives of PRONABIO, role of project;
2) Overall project description (including already approved activities and sub-projects);
3) Organizational structure, Coordinating Commission, composition of members and
mechanism for selecting them, roles and responsibilities of the members of the
Coordinating Commission, Technical Secretariat and key staff; operating procedures of the
Commission, profile or terms of reference of staff positions;
4) Funding sources. The matching requirements for grants to be made under the second
round should be detailed;
5) Operating procedures for awarding of grants, including: (a) Calls for Sub-Project
Proposals would be issued by PRONABIO: procedures for setting priorities for sub-
project thematic eligibility and calls for proposals; procedures to determine types and size
of grant to be awarded; guidelines for budget preparation, including sample forms,
permissible budget categories, matching from grant recipients; procedures for publication
of requests for proposals; description of dissemination vehicles (including press, mailings,
notification of professional and trade associations, and NGOs); (b) Sub-Project Selection
and Approval: This step will be carried out by FUNBIO. Procedures should be compatible
with FUNBIO's operating manual. Details should be provided on procedures for judging
proposals, including selection of technical reviewers; criteria for evaluation; guidelines to
indicate and mitigate any environmental impact of sub-projects; feedback provided to
proposing organizations; notification of results of evaluation. Draft eligibility and
selection criteria are included in Annex 11.
6) Financial management arrangements, including guidelines for contracting with and
disbursing to grant beneficiaries; financial reporting; general guidelines for procurement of
goods and services. For contracting and disbursement to sub-project beneficiaries, annexes
could include, e.g., model contracts, statements of expenditure, and reporting forms.



54                                     Annex 6
Project I
7) Guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects and lessons learned. Draft
guidelines for a monitoring and evaluation program are included in Annex 12.
8) Other items: procedures for complaints, appeals, and reconsideration; guidelines for staff
conduct and client relations, including discussions of conflict of interest, confidentiality,
and disclosure of information.
Additional Guidelines and Suggested Annexes to the Operational Manual
1) Terms of reference for key staff;
2) Guidelines for appointing members of the Coordinating Commission of PRONABIO
3) Guidelines for identifying, developing, submitting, and selecting sub-projects (e.g., model
public procurement document and contract);
4) Guidelines for settlement of disputes/claims.



BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT I
DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLES
FIRST APPROVED WORKSHOP (Part A-1)
NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY NETWORK (Part A-2)
FIRST-ROUND SUB-PROJECTS (Part B-1)
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION (Part C)
Other detailed tables are not available as they will be developed during project implementation.



PART A-1 - BIOME LEVEL WORKSHOPS - CERRADO AND PANTANAL (USS Thousand)
Brkdown of Totals kneLCont.
Local                                                       Expendltures by Financiers
Toaae kh)uding Conttngem4es             For.   (ExcO  Duties &                               GEF                                    Tbho Gorrmment of Brazil
Is8S" iN        low             IS    Total   Exch.  Tare)  Tase    Tota;  1i6f           Is" 1 N1"       11s     I1      Total   i"N         1016 I17   1ls    IO        Total
L h_vesbnelt Coese
A. Technleol Aeei nce
ConmAls                      27.4      3.1     3.2      .             338        -    33.8             338      13.7     1.6     16                      169    137      16      156                    16.9
NUmljPerDion                  2.0      1.0     1.1      -       -      4.2             4.2        -     4.2      1.0     0.5     05       -       -      2.1     10      05      05        -             2 1
Trwapion                      4.1     Z6       2.7      -              9.4             9.4        -     9.4     2.0      13      13       -       -      47      2.0     13      13                -     4.7
Totalhwreb,nwtCos                33.5     6.8      7.0      -             473             47.3        -    47.3    16.7    3.4      35                -    236    16.7       34      3.5                    236
L Reounwnt Coats
Su*er                        145.1    6.8      7.0      -        -   159.3       -   159.3        -   159.3    728       3.4    3.5       -       -    797    72.8       34      35        -       -    797
a PW ohm_
Perdam                         1.4    0.5      0.5      -       -      25        -     2.5        -     25      0.7      0.3     03       -       -      1.2     07      03      03        -       -     i2
G. Tmnrepo.on
Airm    t.                    37.6     1.0     1.1       -       -    39.9       -    39.9        -    39.9    18.9      0.5     05       -        -    199    1l9       0.5     05        -            199
0. SupplIe
Pue. c                       102     0.4      0.4      -        -    11.0       -    11.0             11.0     5.1     0.2      0.2      -       -      5.5     5.1     0.2     02        -       -     55
Tdeoclmrb tCaela                194.      8.8      9.0                   2127        -   2127    _        21Z7    97.4      4.4     4.5       -       -   106.4    97.4      4.4     4 5                   106 4
TOta                             224    15.6    180                  -   2600        -   280.0             260.0   1142      7.8     8.0       -       -   130.0   114.2     78      80        -       -   1300
LOCAL MATCHN CONTRDTNS BY NUIENTN ENTIES
TOTAL
FUNATURA                     31
C_name hlIuiuSkU             30
Fuam  d81                    25
LV*AtImdde Oet               32
87
O0   --



PART A.2 -NATIAL IOCDIVIERSITY NETWOPX (US$ Thound)
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   _b                            Dow a                                     G.bap   Sd
IN      _                 11n1 1   17 11    To        d              TossT_     Told     135    ISO       117    Im  1            _  Tom     lo      am       MY    am         am      T
L Iw b    CoD
A. gNL W0K3
2D.1    207     213         -       -          l    3.5    256           -       62.1    10.0    103      10.7                -    311       10.0    10.3    107         .       .    311
Ccnp~s                             170.5   19716   203.          *              571.6   335.8   235.8         -      571A     85.3    96.6   101.8         -            285.8    85.3    16.8   101.8         -       -   25.
C. Tedor"Asldntes
Cw-d.                               69.0    71.1    73.2                        213.3   125.3    66.0                2133     34.5    35J      36.6        -            106.7    34.5    35.5    381          -            106.7
NoluoPO                              7.1      7.3     7.5                -       zo      12.9      9.1        -       22.0     3.6      3.7     3.                 -    11.0      3.6      3.7      3.8               -    11.0
A&irUU.d.                            5.1S     5.2     5.4                        It?15    9.2       8.5             5.7        25       21      2.7        -       -      7.8     2.5      2s       IT7       . .......      ?L
UAtd TdwidAsddunc                     812      31      861                        2         71147 5    155O .5        251      40.6    41.       431         - 5        1 25 5  240 1       418     43.1              12    5_5
Toda,--IC                              271.o   301.9   311.0         .4.7    519.8   364.9                      -       84.7   135.9   151.0   155.5                   -   442.4   135.9   1510    155.5          -            4424              (J1
L basiut Colse
A.- Uu1s
swvim                              129.9   133.8   1376   *                     401.1   2359    165.6         -      4016     65.0    68.9    689          -            200.8    65.0    66.9    689            *          2008
a Pu  k
Purdan                               7.1      71      7.4                        21.6    12.7      8.9        -       21.6     3.6     3.6      3.7        -       -    108       3.6      3.6      37        -       -    10.
C. Tr_WpIdgi
Air   de. 41c                        182     188     205         -               57.5    338      23.7        -       575      9.1      94     102                       288      9.1      94      102        -       -    28
Pow.ds.                             11.2    It.5    11.8              _          34.5    20.3    14.2        -        34.5     56       5.7     5.         -             173      5.6      57      5.9        -       -    17.3
T    diR.cuswuCoss                     186.5   1712    177.6         -    -         5153   302.7   212.5                 5153     83.2    85.6   "8.8                       257.6    832      85.6    88 a                     257.6
Tdal                                    4383   473.2   4118J         -             1.40D0   822.5   577 5          -    1.400.0   2191    2366    244.3                 -   700.0   2191    236.6   244.3         -        -   7000
LOCAL MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS BY EiPIMENTING ENTmES
TOTAL
Fw4scso Anch  Tosdo
pusom                 105
_ahds                  50
Wmdludws              200
Mi4dry  -wmo
Pu,Oe.d               210
585
~0



PART B-1 - FIRST-ROUND SUB-PROJECTS - a- Genetic Resources (USS Thousand)
BrSakdwn of Totals IncL Cont
Local                                                       Expendlturaa by Financers
Totals Including Contingencies          For.   (ExcL  Duties &                               GEF                                    The Govermnt of Brazil
1995    19O6    1997    1       196     Total   Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes   Total   1315    1#    1997    1O           166    Total   19ff   166       1       196    16       Total
I Invesnni Coats
& EquIpment
Coars                      160       -        -       -       -    160      1 1    149         -    160      80        -       -       -       -      80      80        -       -       -       -     80
VahIes                    53.3       -        -       -       -    533      3.6    49.7        -    53.3    26.6       .       ,                     26 6    26.6       -       -       -       -    26.6
Lo Eqawt                  533        -       -        -       -    533      3.6    497         -    533    26.6                                      266    26.6        -       -       -       -    26.6
Subtotal Equiprrant         1226       -        -       -       -   122.6     8.3   114.2        -   122.6    61.3       -       -       -       -    613    61.3         -       -       -       -    613
B. Workshop
Sn*es                      192     198    204         -       -    593      40    553          -    593      9.6     99      10.2      -       -    296       9.6     99     10.2       -       -    296
Perdce                     117     17.6    204        -       -    496      34    463          -    496      5.9     88      102       -       -    248       5.9    88      102        -       -    248
Airfares.etc                85     13.2    136        -       -    353      24    329          -    35.3     4.3     66       68       -       -    17.6      4.3    6.6      68        -       -    17.6
Sfppes                      11      1 1     1.1       -       -     33      02      31               3.3    0.5      05       06       -       -      1.6     0.5    0.5    0.6         -       -     1.6
Subtotal Workshop           405    51.6    55.4         -       -   147.5    100    1374         -   1475    20.2    25.8    27.7        -       -    73.7    20.2    258    277          -       -    737
Total lnv_snnt Cowls          1631    516    55.4         -       -   270.1    184   2517          -   2701    81.5    25.8    277         -       -   1350    81.5    25.8    277          -       -   1350
L Recurran Cots
A ServIce
Secrvke                   363      19.3    274        -       -    830      5.7    77.4        -    83.0    18.2     9.7    137        -       -    41.5    18.2    9.7    137          -       -    41.5
&. Per Diem
Perarn                    609    565    58.1          -       -   1755    120    163.6         -   1755    30.5    28.2    29.1        -       -    87.8    305    28.2    291          -       -    878
C. TransportatIon
Airfsaetc                  112      67      69        -       -    247      17    231          -    247      5.6      33      34       -        -    124      56      3.3     3.4       -       -    124
D. Spplioo
Fpo.et                    254     10.5    108        -       -    466      3.2    4.4         -    46       12.7     5.2     5.4      -             23.3    12.7    5.2      5. -4                  23.3
Total RcurrnrtCosts          133.8    92.9   103.2        -       -   329.9    22.5   307.4        -   329.9    669    46.5    516         -       '    169    66.9    4.5    51.8          ,           164.9
Total                         296.8   144.5   158.6       -       -   5999    409   559.1          -   599.9   1484    72.3    79.3         -       -   300.0   148.4   72.3   79.3         -       -   300.0
LOCAL MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS BY IMPLEMENTING ENTITIES
______            ~~TOTAL
CENARGENIEMBRAPA
-ostmd            2,300
2300
0
00  -~I



PART BS1 - FIRST ROLSD SUB-PROJECTS -  LOCAL PROJECT b-I C(rRad  Gan                    ests fU  TSS  usound)
kuaWown of Tabt bitt Cong.
Load TdmE                                                          n het Chb
Tda  hbd.Snu C        _dngsdg.        Fo.   (Et  Diu.. &ff G                                                                    Th.Go    ma d_
INS    is    t         is      is    Tdal   EnSh   Ta.e)  Tax    Todl   1              1_    I1       is    is        T_    1is    is _              t1 m    nu    Tra
I houwnua Ccc
A.u Cvi Wais
wfl s-                                     92       .                     92      12     8.0       -      92             4.6                             46       -     4.6       -       -       -     4.
babies                    -    ~~~~      ~ ~~ ~           ~~~4.0  - - - 40  05  3.5      -     40       -       0       -               -     2        -     2         -              -      2
SulalSivUWorks                              132                            132     16    11.4              032             6.6                             6        6     6.          _                  6.6
6t Equinin
ca_5Amm                           860    400        -       -       -    40      65    415               4o0      40    200                 -           240      40    2D.0       -                    240
Vehxs                             279    2.7    296         -       -    863    116    74.6         -    66.3    14.0    i.4    14         -       -    41      140    144    14          -            4,1
Lab Eqmt                           21   2066    34.4        -      -   2431    328   2103               243.1     11   1033    172         -       -   1215      1.1  103.3   172           .    -   1215
SuI4oaI6Eq I n                      380   2753    540                -   3773    509   3264          -   377.3    190   1376    320          -       -   1637   19.0  137.6    3zo          -      -   18&7
C, Technica Aedd*eno
C ansubFits                       s56     303    312                     671     91    581               671      28    152    156                      33.6   z2    152    156           -       -    33.           3
P4SmiPD                            10      42     43        -       -     95      13     82        -      9.5     05     z1      22        -       -    46      0.5    21       22        -      -      4.8         O
Air We. eir-                       06      73     4.3       -       -    122      17    106        -    122       03     37      22        -       -    61      0.3    3.7      22        -       -     61
s      tdA        .Seuc.             7.2    416    39.6                    69    12.0   761          -    a         3.6   20      19S9       -.4   316    2D.9    19S                       -      -    444
ToaalvwainAC.                        452   3303   103.6         -      -   4794    647   414.7         -   479.4    2z6   165.2   512          -           239.7   226   1652    51.9        -           239.7
t Recunmnt Cob
SarAces                          a60    602       24                -   1706    230   1476         -   1706       40    401    412                      853     40    401    412                       853
PeOeIn                             61    230    23.7        -528                 71    457          -    528      3.0    115    118                     264     30    11S    11-    264
C. Tmnspcotelu
Ar  .etc                           12    167      a6                     266     36    230          -    26.6     06     64      43        -       -    133      0.6    64      43        -      -    13.3
0. Suppe
Pww. d.                            66    332      66        -       -    707     95    612          -    707      44    166    143         -       -    35.4    44    166    143          -      -    354
Total RecunmnG Coe                   242   1532   1433         -       -   32D6    433   2774          -   3206      II     76    717         -            103    12.1    7        717       - _         16t3
Total                                 694   463.5  2472         -         -   OI   1079   641           -   80D1    34.7  241.7   123.6        -       -   4n.      347   241.7   1236        -       -   4.0
LOCAL MATCHNG CCNIRSUTKIOS BY WLEENT3I EBTlEs
TOTAL
EM -WA
tnswa a m
pmdm               621
Bwaf
pm-s               133
1234
PZ
0  c
'!    X
00 <-



PART B-1 FRST ROUND SBRJECTS -   I LOCAL PROJECT b4I  ilMc Forat Guuraquca  (USS Thad)
1uahdows co Totard bd Cond
Local                                                       Eaponbmmav  h P      _m
Tals bclmn Coninoanda                   Fw-   (Excl.  Ds &                                    GM                                     The Gs_i   d  m
isms    I1      w       I1U7     I1 1   Total   Eeh m.  Tonw   T          Total   INS     1_9  1M         I1_    i1      TOtl   INS    I          1s"    am       im      Tdzl
I bhemow Cools
A. Equlpamul
C<TIWS                     86 3       -                            86 3      7.6    78.7        -    86.3    432        -       -       -       -    432      432        -       -       -       -    432
Veohds                     202        -       -       -       -    20.2      1.8    18.5             202     10.1       -       -       -       -    10.1    10.1        _       -                     10.1
Lob Eq#nwt                  3.2     8.8     9.0       -            21.0      1.9    192         -    21.0     1.6     4.4      4.5      -       -    10.       1.6     4.4     4.5                     10.5
Totlk a waa_    Ccota         109 8     8.8     9.0       -       -   127.6    112    116.4         -   1276    954       4.4      4.5      -       -    618    54.9       4.4     4.5       -       -    63.8
L Racir4au Ccitx
A Sar_icaa
s5nlces                   162.4   192.4   1615        -       -   5163    45.4   470.9          -   516.3    81.2    962      808       -       -   2511    81.2    962    80.8          -       -   258.1 
IL PM D_8
Pw   n                     203      5 2     3 2       -       -    28.8     2.5    26.2              28.8    102      2.6      1.6      -       -    14.4    10.2      2.6     1.6       -       -    14.4
C. Tranapodation
Air o.ec                   61      11      12        -       -     84      07       77         -     84      3.0     06       0.6      -       -      42      3.0     06      0.6       -              42
0. SuppIls
Papuel)                     91      94      9.7       -       -    28.2     2.5    25.8              28.2     4.6     4.7     4.8       -       -    14.1      4.6     4.7     4J        -       -    14.1
Total Racunu  Coals           1979   208.1   175.6        -       -   581.7    512   530.5          -   581.7   11.0   104.1    67          -            20DS    96.0   104.1    87J         -       -   2S0D
Totel                         3077   216.9   184.7        -       -   7093    624    6469           -   709.3   153J   10Dt5    9Z3          -       -   354.7   153.8   10.5   6Z3          -        -   354.7
LOCAL MATCHING CONTR1UTIONS BY APLEMENTHO ENTITIES
TOTAL
So9add do PA  on mVd S_g
0*4n11             29.8
-*a$kuck"          26.2
PAM
k*msDucLwe          50D
Lrw.Wdadst Fed" do Parn
1556
tI0 a
kP
>* 



PART B-t FIRST ROUND SUB-PROJECTS - LOCAL PROJECT b4-I Atlantic Forest Linhares & Soreta (US$ Thousand)
Breakdown of Totals hcl. Cont.
Local                                                         Expenditures by Financier
Toatal Including Conttlngsnc             For.   (fxcL  Outee &                                 GEF                                      The Government of Brzil
19ff    19"     16t7  It         ISt    Total   Exch.  Taxee)   Taxos    Total _IB          131     1167    Ion      19BM    Total   11n5    191ti1   1i7    lift    1316    Total
L Inveenint Coats
A. Civil Works
hIstailsons                 3.3       -       -       -        -     3.3     0 4      3 0        -     33       t         -       -       -        -     1 7      1 7               -         -            1 7
B. Equiprmnt
C-rpAm                      64        .                              6.4      07      5.7               64      32        -                        -     32      32                     -                  32
Vehdan                     391        -       -       -        -    391       44     34.6        -    39.1    195         -       -            -    -   19 5     195                -          -          195
LabEqjnert                 72.6     8.0    I         -             o825      94    TV1               82.5    36.3      40      09        -        -    41.3    363       40      09        -       -    413
SubtotalEquipmIt 11t.0                8.0     1.9       -        -   1280    145    1135           -   128t0    590       40      09        -             640    590        40      09                      6 -  40
TotallnvaetinnlCosts          1214      8t0      19       -        -   131.3    149    116.4         -   1313      607      40      09        -        -    657    607        40      09        -       -    657
L Recurrent Cont
A Services
Sasni:eS                  2045    1725    700         -        -   447.0    508    3962          -   4470    1023    862       350        -        -   2235    1023    8962    350          -       -   2235
B Pe Wan                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Perain                     16.7    13.1     9.7       -        -    395       45     350         -    39.5      8.4     65      48                      198      84       65      48                      19a 198
C, Transapofarton
Airtw f.tc                 153     137      8.5        -       -    375       43     33.3        -    375       77      68      43                      188       77      68      43        -        -    188
D. Supplie
Ppre,at                    23.1    14.0     7.6       -        -    44.8      51     397         -    44.      11.6     70      38        -        -    22.4    116       70      38             -        224
Total Recurrot Coxbs          259 7   213.3    95         -        -   5668.8   64.8   504.2         -   568.8   129.9   106.6    47.9        -        -   284 4   129 9   106 6    47 9            -        284 4
Total                         3811    2213    977          -            7002    795   6206           -   7002    1906    1107    489           -       -   3501    1906    1107      489                 -   3501
LOCAL MATCHING CONTRJBUTIONS BY IMPLEMENTING ENTMES
TOTAL
Lilafl Fadex de Rio do JuSt
parallet            825
rentm                88
EMPRAPA
paane               414
1Inenx              228
tJrvfldede de Sao PFao
Paso.               210
rnxl                545
Resne  Ftr  de Lriwe
x&$uk               350
Carts  tI  de bn Redchw  Sdlanlue
ttn                  77
2737
O0
X   _   _t
N0



PART B-1 FIRST ROUND SUB-PROJECTS - LOCAL PROJECT bIv Caatlnga Brejos de Altitude (USS Thousand)
Breakdown of Totl Incl. Cont
Lomal                                                         Exponditures by Financiers
Totals henluding Contingencee            Fr.   (Excl.  Dutie                                    GEF                                     The Go,ernmont of Brzil
135    16    1n7    136    Is          Total   Exch.  Taxesl   Taxes    Totbl   13"       136    13?       1938   1t       Total   1995    136    1997    1m         19      Total
L invtsemnt Costs
A. Civil Works
lnsaktons                  59 2     3 4                              62 6     1 8    60 9              62 6    29 6      1 7               -       -    313      29 6      1 7       -       -       -    313
B. Equipmntn
Coamt                       176       -                         -    17.6      05     171         -    176      a8        - a                             8       88 a         -                     -      88
Vehides                    33 5            -           -        -    33 5     0.9    32.6         -    33 5     16 7                               -     t6 7    16 7        -       -                      6 77
Lab EcluiprTet             722            -            -             72 2     20     70.2         -    722    361         -             _                361     36 1                          _           36 1
SubtotalEquipment           1233        -        -       -       -   1233       35    1199              1233    617         -   _                          617     617                                       617
TottalnvebnentComte            1925     34         -       -            1659      52    1607              1B5.9    912       17        -       -       -    930      912       17            -           -    930
L Recurrent Costs
A. Srviec
ser.A                      1015    930      754        -        -   269.9     76    2624          -   269.9    508      465     377        -       -   1350      508    465       377                     1 -   7350        -
B. Trmnsportation
Airt re elc                 152    105      108        -             364       10     354         -    364       76      52      54        -        -    182       76      52      54        -       -    782
C Per DMen
Petrnon,                   508    376       388        -        -   1272      36    1236              1272    254       188     194        -       -    636      254      188     194                      636
D. Supplies
POW. t,                    548    33.5    237    _         -        12.0      31    108.8         -   112.0    274      167     118        -       -    560      274      167     118                      560
TotalRcurrentCosts            222 3    174.6   1486                -   5455      153   530.2          -   545.5   III 1      73     743                     2727    11t1      873     743        -       -   2727
Total                          404 8    178 0    148 6              -   731 4     20 5   710 9             731 4   202 4    89 0    74 3        -           365 7   202 4    89 0    74 3        -        -   365 7
LOCAL MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS BY IMPLEMENTING ENTITIES
TOTAL
Urrerlad6e Federal de Penwvnbuo
perWSd                734
ntmaeri               85
UrVrshde Rurel do Pwfltbuco
p     so.             338
owtta                 65
Unrsuuideod FedKI do PUeRi
p-amt                 338
eatleteb              65
Solededo NaTteb  de EcdO0e
p4tICrvl               79
Irnl                  12                                                                                                                         >
1716                                                                                                                CO CD o
C 



PART C - PROJECT ADMINISTRATION (MMA AND CNPq) (USS Thousand)
Bwdmln oI Te4 hbdu Crd
Llea                                                                       Er _ui,  by Fbwrih
TViC_ kiehO  Cu.bls.                                      (xzL   DAi.                                           GEF                                               The G.v.,,,d i Brd
los      lu        10e0      t40       10n        To1W     F,.. ri   Taru        Tw         Tdl       1ns      1199      1n7       1n4        1nn       Tom      bo       1t"        1017      1ne       10n6      TOW
I. b011040 COOl
sa OqU
-    .5. s      42      91lo      92.8      240 *        Y1       204 s               240 9               24 7      20 o      80 s      31        1   o20 3          28 7      29 5       30 5      21 4     I O20 3\
Elk                                    02.3       U400     034       0.        3,44443      5l07    2.#277         -    3.4443         -     4116      4240      4207       4408    1.7222              411 9      4240      4247      4496    1.7222
C Ted.49d AmeMbml
Ca 4s                            .JJ"j    15007    1.012.7   16610             03095        05820    5,408 5       -    03505          -     700       7021      0063  w30 5  . 77                      7oo0       7020      8000      830S    31797
T.d h.0       Cab                   .   240.0   2.472.0   2.s47.l   2.625    10.4.4    1.5007    8.5377                     10.044 4     -      12004    1.2245    1.2735    1.3110    5.0222              1.2004    1.2365    1.2725    1231 0    50222
A.$ Sw
s .W       s3100                                 32623     3381       3452      134         l907        -,                  24 3504                    1031      1ea0       1726      0122               150 4     1031      1000      1720      0122
TOW  R. Oada                        - Ct.0           32203     2301       3452     124s         1017   11257           .                   .23   1504      1031      0N 0       1726      602 2             154       1631      1600      1720      6422
T.d..   2.7170    2.7992    2.0032    2.t647    11r4.27                                        1.7053    0.603 4             11.2407            1.358 00    1.36    1.4410    1.4644    5.604 4             12350     120 99    1.441a    1.4644    56644
oc        -2
0 : 
X 0






Annex 8
Project 11
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
PROJECT II
ORGANIZATION OF THE BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND (FUNBIO)



63                                   Annex 8-A
Project 11
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
DESCRIPTION OF THE GETULIO VARGAS FOUNDATION
The Getulio Vargas Foundation has historically provided technical assistance in the fields of
economics and administration to a wide range of public and private entities. It was the first institution
in Brazil to provide graduate training in public administration, economics and business; it was also a
pioneer in the systematic collection and analysis of statistical data on the Brazilian economy. FGV has
played a pivotal role in the development and formation of key Brazilian institutions, such as the
Central Bank of Brazil and the Treasury Department. Many of its teachers and former students have
occupied important positions during the last 30 years in both Government and private business.
International exchange with universities in the United States and Europe is a well-established FGV
practice, and more than half of all Brazilian publications in foreign economic journals are by meinbers
of its Graduate School of Economics.
Because of its strong links to government, business, and the academic sector, FGV has been
instrumental in the creation of effective partnerships among the various sectors. In 1990, for example,
the FGV's Center for International Economics created the Committee for Private Sector Cooperation,
with representatives from leading businesses in Brazil, to support the Center's research and the
organization of public debates on the regional and national implications of international economic and
political issues. Of key importance to the ultimate choice of the Getulio Vargas Foundation to house
FUNBIO has been its historically effective role as a respected, independent, and innovative catalyst for
public-private sector cooperation in Brazil.



64                                  Annex 8-B
Project II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
INTERNAL REGULATIONS OF THE BRAZILIAN BIODIVERSITY FUND
Chapter I.   Designation and Characterization
Art. I       A Brazilian Biodiversity Fund (FUNBIO) is created under Article 8, No. XIII of the
Getuilio Vargas Foundation (FGV) By-Laws with administrative, financial, and institutional autonomy,
supported by two firms that shall be contracted by the FGV under competitive terms to:
1.    Invest the funds initially provided by the GEF Trust Fund for FUNBIO and additional
funds to be raised.
II.    Audit the investments and operational expenditures of FUNBIO.
Section 1    Although FUNBIO is included within the administrative realm of FGV, it shall be
operationally independent from FGV.
Art. 2       FGV, in compensation for the use of its space and indirect administrative expenditures
to support FUNBIO, shall utilize 6% from income generated by FUNBIO as defined in Art. 7.
Art. 3       The administrative expenditures of FUNBIO shall be funded with resources from the
Fund and shall not exceed 10% of its annual budget.
Art. 4       The duration of FUNBIO shall be undetermined, and shall be terminated by initiative
of the Board of Directors of FUNBIO, with a final decision from the Board of Directors of FGV.
Section 1    In the event of the termination of FUNBIO, the activities funded by FUNBIO shall be
finished and the contracts of personnel involved in the activities shall be ended.
Section 2    Once FUNBIO is liquidated, the balance of funds, after expenditures described in the
previous paragraph and the fulfillment of existing contractual obligations, shall be turned over to those
entities whose objectives most closely match the objectives described in Art. 5 below, after
consultation with the Board of Directors of FUNBIO.
Chapter II.   Objectives
Art. 5       The objectives of FUNBIO shall be to finance programs and projects related to the
conservation, sustainable use, information gathering and dissemination, technical exchange, and other
activities supporting biodiversity in accordance with the Convention on Biological Diversity,
PRONABIO, and directives of related government agencies. Specifically, FUNBIO shall:



65                                    Annex 8-B
Project II
1.     Promote partnerships between the public and private sectors in the conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity, and in the just and equitable distribution of any benefits
resulting therefrom;
II.    Coordinate fundraising with national and international, public and private entities.
III.    Contribute to the development of actions that support the conservation and sustainable
use of biodiversity.
IV.    Select projects and sub-projects exclusively related to biodiversity and provide
financial resources for their execution.
V.    Promote innovative projects, tests of models, and methodologies oriented to the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in a participative and multidisciplinary way.
VI.    Generate and disseminate information, prepare studies and assessments, and propose
recommendations on priority actions for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
VII.  Implement programs on human resources training, environmental education, and
development of research activities, as well as propose and implement policies and strategies in
support of biodiversity.
Chapter III. Assets and Income
Art. 6        The assets of FUNBIO shall be constituted by:
1.     Donations of goods or services by individuals, legal entities public or private, national
or international, including those referred to in Art. 1
II.    Goods and services from revenues from its assets.
Art. 7        FUNBIO income shall be made up of:
1.     Income generated from investments in-country or abroad.
II.    Donations from individuals or legal entities public or private, national or international
for the operational expenses of FUNBIO.
III.    Payment for services rendered by FUNBIO in the course of meeting its objectives.
Art. 8        Revenue from assets and income, when available, shall be invested in such a way as to
maximize its return, following rules of prudence and specific directives approved by the Board of
Directors of FUNBIO.
Art. 9        Donations with associated obligation and which might bring onus made either directly
to the Fund or for administrative expenses shall be approved by the Board of Directors of FUNBIO.



6 6                                   Annex 8-B
Project 11
Chapter IV    Administrative Structure
Art. 10        FUNBIO's administrative structure shall be composed of the following:
1.     Board of Directors.
II.    Executive Secretariat.
Section I     The members of the Board shall not, under any circumstances, receive compensation
for their services as Board members and shall not participate in any way in the economic or financial
performance of FUNBIO.
Section 2      The expenditures of FUNBIO, including salaries and benefits of FUNBIO's
personnel, third party contracts, and employee severance costs, shall be paid from FUNBIO's account.
in accordance with Art. 3.
Chapter V.   Board of Directors.
Art. 11       The Board of Directors shall direct FUNBIO and shall be composed of voting members
and alternates from each of the entities or sectors indicated below:
1.     Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV)
11.    Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources, and the Legal Amazon (MMA)
III.    Business sector interested in environmental activities
IV.    Academic sector, not linked to FGV and engaged in environmental activities
V.    Environmental non-governmental organizations.
Section 1     Each of the entities indicated in I and II above shall have two (2) voting members and
two (2) alternates serving indefinite terms.
Section 2     Each of the sectors indicated in III to V above shall have four (4) voting members and
four (4) alternates serving four-year terms, one quarter of whom will rotate and seek reelection for one
consecutive term.
Art. 12       Voting and alternate members of the Board of Directors shall be recommended or
selected in accordance with paragraphs of this article, and designated by the President of FGV.
Section 1     Representatives of FGV and MMA shall be recommended by their respective entities.
Section 2     Members of the initial Board of Directors from the sectors indicated in III to V of the
previous article shall be selected in each sector in consultation with FGV and MMA from among
individuals who have knowledge of the environmental field.



67                                   Annex 8-B
Project II
Section 3     The reelection of one-quarter of the members from sectors III to V will be decided by
the Board of Directors, after consultation with the respective sectors and maintaining the proportional
representation stipulated by the internal regulations.
Section 4     The President and Vice-President of the Board shall be elected by plenary of the Board
of Directors and appointed by the President of FGV.
Section 5     The mandate of the President and Vice-President shall not be renewed beyond two (2)
consecutive periods.
Section 6     Voting members and alternates who miss three (3) consecutive meetings will
automatically lose their mandate.
Art. 13       The Functions of the Board shall be to:
I.     Define a strategic program for achieving the objectives of FUNBIO;
II.    Elect the President and Vice-President of the Board of Directors;
Ill.   Elect the new voting members and alternates in accordance with Art. 12, Section 3.
IV.   Approve:
a)     By December 15 of each year, the work plans and budgets of FUNBIO;
b)     By March 15 of each year, the annual report and financial statements from the
previous year, audited independently.
V.    Approve calls for proposals;
VI.   Select and approve projects and sub-projects, decide on their funding amounts, and
monitor their execution according to the operational norms of FUNBIO;
VII.   Monitor the implementation of approved work plans and budgets;
VIII.  Approve operational norms;
IX.   Authorize the transfer of budgetary resources without raising expenditures and the
opening of additional credits with specification of the income that would cover them;
X.    Approve the acceptance of donations with associated obligations and which might bring
onus.
XI.   Approve contracting of independent consultants;
XII.   Approve the selection of the Executive Secretary;
XIII.  Propose changes in the internal regulations;



68                                    Annex 8-B
Project II
XIV. Comment on the termination of FUNBIO.
Section I     Changes in the internal regulations and termination of FUNBIO shall depend on the
decision of the Board of Directors of FUNBIO and formal acceptance of the decision by the Board of
Directors of FGV.
Art. 14       The Board of Directors shall meet:
1.     Regularly, every four (4) months.
II.    Extraordinarily, upon convocation (with five days advance notice) by:
a)     Its President
b)     One-quarter of its voting members.
Section 1     The quorum for decisions of the Board of Directors shall be:
a)     Normally, the absolute majority of its voting members, nine (9) members;
b)     For approval of work plans, budgets, reports, and annual financial reports,
eleven ( 11) members.
c)     To recommend modifications in the internal regulations or termination of
FUNBIO, thirteen (13) members.
Section 2     Resolutions will be passed by simple majority vote of the voting members or their
alternates, and recorded in a registry signed by all members present.
Section 3     In the case of a tie, the President, or his/her substitute, shall decide the vote.
Chapter VI.  President and Vice-President of the Board of Directors
Art. 15       The President of the Board shall:
I.     Represent FUNBIO actively or passively.
II.    Convoke the Board of Directors and chair its meetings.
III.    Designate rapporteurs for matters submitted to the Board
IV.    Supervise FUNBIO's services, carrying out necessary actions for its administration.
V.    Submit for appointment by the Board of Directors of FGV the names of those selected
to serve as the financial manager and independent auditor.



69                                    Annex 8-B
Project II
VI.   Submit for appointment by the Board of Directors of FUNBIO the name of the person
selected to serve as Executive Secretary.
VII.   Recommend to FGV contracts with selected firms to:
a)     Invest FUNBIO's funds;
b)     Conduct independent financial audits and administrative reviews;
c)     Raise additional funds for FUNBIO;
VIII.  Present quarterly progress and financial reports to the Board of Directors.
IX.    Submit for Board approval:
a)     By November 30 of each year, a work plan and budget proposal for FUNBIO
for the next fiscal year;
b)     By the end of February of each year, an annual report and financial statements
of FUNBIO related to the previous fiscal year, including an independent auditor's
report.
X.    Execute tasks designated by the Board of Directors.
Xi.    The President may delegate to the Vice President or Executive Secretary the
responsibilities described in I to IV of this article.
Section I     In the event of absence or inability to fulfill the duties of office, the President shall be
substituted by the Vice President, or in the absence of both, one representative of FGV shall be
designated by the Board of Directors to assume the presidency.
Chapter VII. The Executive Secretariat
Art. 16       The purpose of the Executive Secretariat shall be to provide administrative support to
the Board of Directors, and in particular, to the President; it should have a simple and flexible
structure and low operational costs.
Art. 17       The Executive Secretariat shall be managed by an Executive Secretary, to be appointed
by the President. The Executive Secretary shall perform the following duties:
1.     Assume power of attorney to represent FUNBIO, actively and passively.
I.    Ensure compliance with the internal regulations and operational guidelines approved by
the Board of Directors;
III    Submit proposals and requests for financial assistance for the Board's consideration,
after the necessary technical evaluation;



7 0                                    Annex 8-B
Project 11
IV.    Provide the following to the Board of Directors:
a)     Work plans, budget proposals, reports and financial statements;
b)     Evaluation of entities responsible for financial management, auditing, and
fund-raising.
V.    Propose to FGV, through the Board of Directors in the case of b) and c) below,
contracts for:
a)     Necessary personnel;
b)     Outside consultants and consultant firms;
c)     Implementing agencies of approved projects.
VI.    Supervise operational expenditures, third party contracts and other services.
VII.   Take part in the meetings of the Board of Directors as a non-voting participant.
Chapter VIII. General Conditions
Art. 18        The fiscal year will coincide with the calendar year.
Art. 19        The mandates of Board members shall automatically be extended until successors are
designated.
Art. 20        The members of the Board of Directors shall not be liable for FUNBIO obligations.
Art. 21        Once the Board accepts a donation, terms and conditions of the donations shall not be
altered.
Art. 22        FUNBIO shall not distribute profits, gains or any other returns to its administrators,
managing institutions or directors, utilizing all of its income for the fulfillment of its stated objectives.
Art. 23       To allow for the reelection of one-quarter of its members each year, the initial terms of
the Board members selected by the sectors described in Art. 11, III-V, will have a differentiated
duration of one, two, three and four years for each sector.



721                                  Annex 8-C
Project II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
INITIAL MEMBERSHIP OF THE FUNBIO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The following is a list of the first FUNBIO Board of Directors. The list has been reviewed
and found satisfactory by the Bank. During its inaugural meeting on October 9, 1995, the Board
appointed Roberto Bornhausen as President and Gustavo Fonseca as Vice President.
I .    Private Sector
a)     Voting Members:
Roberto Konder Bornhausen (Unibanco) - President
Guilherme Frering (CAEMI)
Luiz Kaufman (Aracruz)
Jose Luiz Magalhaes Neto (Belgo Mineiro)
b)     Alternates:
Carlos Nascimento (Banco Real)
Leon Feffer (Suzano)
Manoel de Freitas (Champion)
Carlos Affonso de Aguiar Teixeira (Petrobras)
2.     Academic Sector
a)     Voting Members:
Angelo Machado (Federal University of Minas Gerais)
Jose Marcio Ayres (Goeldi Museum)
Benjamin Gilbert (Oswaldo Cruz Foundation)
Virgilio Viana (University of Sao Paulo)
b)     Alternates:
Luiz Drude Lacerda (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro)
Nanuza Meneses (University of Sao Paulo)
Maria Angelica Figueiredo (Federal University of Ceara)
Warwick Estevam Kerr (Federal University of Uberlandia)
3.     Environmental Non-Governmental Organizations
a)     Voting Members:
Gustavo Fonseca (Conservation International of Brazil) - Vice President



72                                   Annex 8-C
Project 11
Garo Batmanian (World Wildlife Fund of Brazil)
Jean Marc van den Weid (ASPTA)
Ibsen Carnara (Brazilian Foundation for the Conservation of Nature)
b)     Alternates:
Niede Guidon (FundagAo Museu do Homem Americano)
Paula Saldanha (Terra Azul Institute)
Adalberto Verissimo (Institute of Man and the Environment in the Amazon, IMAZON)
Guy Marcovaldi (TAMAR Project)
4.     Ministry of the Envirownent, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon (MMA)
a)     Voting Members:
Asplsia Camargo (SECEX)
Braulio F. de Souza Dias (SMA)
b)     Alternates:
Lldio Coradin (SMA)
Carlos Pinto (SECEX)
5.    Getilio Vargas Foundation
a)     Voting Members
Celina do Amaral Peixoto (Directorate)
Ant6nio Salazar Pessoa Brandao (Brazilian Institute for Economics)
b)     Alternates:
C16vis Jose Daudt de Faro (Directorate)
lgnez Guatimosin Vidigal (Center for Agricultural Studies)



Annex 9
7 3                                  Project II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMENT
Background
Trust funds and endowments have become increasingly important as a financing mechanism to
provide the reliable, stable support to sustain effective programs promoting environmental biodiversity
conservation programs. The essential features of trust funds include: (i) a capital fund which is
invested with the aim of maintaining its real value while generating income to fund project activities;
(ii) a decision-making mechanism to allocate the income for specified uses or to meet agreed
objectives; and (iii) an administrative mechanism to distribute and monitor the funds disbursed and to
evaluate the impact and cost-effectiveness funded relative to the stated objectives.
The trust fund to be established under the GEF Biodiversity Projects generally shares these
features. However, it differs from other trust funds in one significant way; namely, the capital fund
will actually be a sinking fund, with the objective of depleting the initial capital over a period of 15
years. The real value of the capital fund will still need to be adequately sustained so it is not depleted
before its expected life, and the fund will still serve as the primary base for generating income to
finance specific project activities. However, financial management of a sinking fund could entail a
different risk-reward investment approach than the typically highly conservative approach used when
seeking to maintain in perpetuity the real capital value of a trust fund.
While there is relatively little guidance available with regard to this sinking fund approach,
there is growing GEF experience in the design of environmental trust funds. Preparation and analysis
of the financial aspects of the proposed sinking fund draws upon such experience, which itself is based
partially upon expertise from other organizations with conservation financing (e.g., the World Wildlife
Fund; The Nature Conservancy; CARE; and the U.S. Agency for International Development). The
analysis also draws upon research on issues and options involved in the design of trust funds conducted
by the Bank, and on financial consultant reports utilized for similar projects. These reports advise on
aspects relating to the investment of the capital fund, including: selection of an investment firm to
manage the capital assets, appropriate contract terms, investment strategy, and estimates of realistic
rates of return. However, financial analysis in general is ultimately constrained by uncertainties about
future trends, in particular regarding economic climate (e.g., exchange and inflation rates), earning
potential of capital, and costs of administration and project activities. Furthermore, any
financial/investment advice which is tailored towards meeting the objectives of a specific given fund
may not be relevant or useful for meeting the objectives of another/different fund.
Investment and Management of the Sinking Fund
The specific investment strategy would be defined by FUNBIO's Board of Directors, in
consultation with its asset manager and to the satisfaction of the Bank. However, the strategy would
be consistent with investment criteria agreed with the Bank before Bank's Board approval.
Furthermore, the strategy would seek to maximize total return, including interest, dividends, and



Annex 9
74                                    Project 11
capital appreciation, while generating a minimum level of annual investment income to cover operating
expenses and asset management fees, and to provide subgrants to fund project activities.
Detailed spending and investment rules would be described in the Operational Manual,
including acceptable levels of risk for investments, limits on capital invasion, mechanisms for re-
investment of unspent income (e.g., in years with high investment performance), and mechanisms for
incorporating and managing additional grants and assets provided by sources other than the GEF Trust
Fund. Some preliminary basic parameters would include: (a) a relatively low-risk investment strategy
(although not as conservative as with a trust fund for which capital invasion is prohibited) to ensure
that capital is not depleted in less than 15 years; (b) generation of investment income which at least
covers asset management fees and FUNBIO's operating expenses; and (c) capital invasion rule; since
this is a sinking fund, for which all the GEF capital would be depleted at the end of 15 years,
investment returns need not be re-capitalized. As such, a specific rule limiting overall annual fund
expenditures is not necessary. However, to ensure adequate capital preservation for earning
reasonable, an annual limit on the use of the principal of the GEF Trust Fund Grant was established at
US$3 million. The capital invasion limit would be reviewed annually by FUNBIO's Board and the
Bank, and mutually agreed upon adjustments would be permissible.
While there are no fixed GEF requirements for offshore investments, there are precedents.
Virtually all of the trust funds supported by the GEF Trust Fund are managed by off-shore asset
managers (the only exception is Peru's National Trust Fund for Protected Areas, which is managed by
a local financial institution). The principal reason for off-shore asset management is related to the need
to preserve trust fund capital in perpetuity. And the international standard for administering trust
funds is the use of conservative low-risk investment guidelines. This translates into off-shore
investment accounts in high grade bonds or equities in developed markets, and in historically strong
currency. In the case of FUNBIO, which is the first sinking fund to be supported by GEF, and not a
trust fund in perpetuity, limited capital invasion would be acceptable, and a slightly less conservative
investment strategy than in the case of a traditional trust fund could be utilized. Nevertheless, since
the FUNBIO sinking fund has a relatively long life (15 years), the preservation of capital remains an
important investment objective, particularly in the early years. As such, a moderately low-risk
strategy with a balanced portfolio of off-shore and domestic investments would be appropriate. The
definition of detailed investment objectives and guidelines was approved by the Bank as a condition of
Bank's Board approval. These guidelines would be an integral part of the contract between FUNBIO
and the asset manager.
Future rates of return, and therefore the financial sustainability of the sinking fund, would be
estimated on the basis of projections provided by short-listed investment firms interested in and
qualified to manage the fund. FUNBIO/FGV identified the short list of asset managers, requested
proposals, and selected the asset manager in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. The Bank
provided its approval at the different stages of the process. Terms of reference and selection criteria
for selecting the asset manager were approved by the Bank and are provided in Attachment 1. Drawing
on investment research prepared under other GEF environmental trust funds, Attachment 2 shows a
preliminary investment analysis for the sinking fund. This analysis reflects the latest discussions
regarding the release of GEF Trust Fund funds (US$10 million up front, and then tranches of US$2.5
million per year after that to match private contributions). The analysis assumes a 5 % rate of return,
net of investment management fees and transaction costs (estimated at 1.5% of capital). This estimate
is cautious, particularly when the fund's capital does not need to be fully protected (para. 6), and it is
hoped that average total returns will be higher over the life of the fund. The investment management



Annex 9
75                                    Project 11
fee is also very conservative in that it over estimates the typical cost of services expected under the
project. Even with these rather cautious estimates, the preliminary analysis shows that while the fund
will be depleted in 15 years, about US$10 million (net of investment management and transaction
costs) above the initial GEF Trust Fund capital is generated by the fund and made available to the
program.
Because of the significant infusionis of GEF Trust Fund capital in the first five years of the
project, financial sustainability in the early years of project implementation should not be a serious
issue. The only potential problem, in the event that investment returns are lower than the very
cautious estimates mentioned above, is a reduced amount of funds available for sub-project financing.
However, to a large extent, the provision for capital invasion will mitigate this risk. Nonetheless, the
issue of financial sustainability is a significant issue which should be re-examined at the time of the
project mid-term review (estimated to take place at 36th month into project implementation). Long-
term sustainability (e.g., beyond the life of the sinking fund) will be of the greatest importance. This
will depend somewhat on the investment performance of the sinking fund, but more so on provisions
wlhich may allow re-investment of income and FUNBIO's access to other sources of financing (e.g.,
other local and international donors, endowments, and self-generated finance).
Management of the Income
FUNBIO's Activities and Budget. All proceeds of the fund, including investment income and
capital, will be utilized by FUNBIO under the project, as acceptable to the Bank. In principle,
FUNBIO would be a grant-maker, fundraiser, and catalyst in the area of biodiversity conservation. Its
program activities would be divided among program administration for model sub-project grant-
making, (limited) technical assistance to help potential beneficiaries solicit grants, fundraising locally
and internationally among non-profit and for-profit sectors, and general administration. Considering
that FUNBIO would not execute sub-projects, it would only require limited staffing. Initial staff
would include an Executive Director, a professional program assistant, a technical assistant, and one
secretary. Sub-project evaluation would be carried out on a case by case basis by technical reviewers,
and would ultimately be reviewed and decided upon by FUNBIO's Board of Directors. Preliminary
annual estimated costs are provided in Attachment 3.
Disbursements. To finance FUNBIO's costs and activities under the project, up to US$20
million from the GEF Trust Fund would be deposited in the fund, to be managed by an internationally
qualified asset manager, in accordance with the aforementioned investment guidelines. The funds from
GEF Trust Fund and from other sources are expected to be disbursed into the asset manager's account
over the first five years of the project in the form suggested in Attachment 2. The initial deposit
would be made following Grant effectiveness. Additional deposits into the fund would be triggered
by demonstrated donations to FUNBIO in the ratio of two (GEF Trust Fund) to one (other sources)
(US$5 million). The funds could be raised in tranches, US$250,000 at a time, each tranche triggering
a new release of funds from GEF Trust Fund until all GEF funding is committed. Contracts with
donors and bank statements showing deposits from these donations to FUNBIO's asset manager
account would serve as means of verification.
Auditing. FUNBIO's activities and related expenditures would be audited by independent
private consultants (preferably recognized firms), in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and acceptable to the Bank. Separate audit reports would be provided for the foundation and
the asset manager. The audit report for FUNBIO would provide a separate opinlioll regardinlg



Annex 9
7 6                                   Project 11
FUNBIO; project accounts, SOEs, and financial statements, as well as a management report analyzing
overall financial management, control, and effectiveness. The audit report for the asset manager would
be similar, but would not include an opinion regarding SOEs and project accounts. Furthermore,
technical audits of FUNBIO's activities would be conducted to ensure that established selection
criteria are followed consistently. Within six months of the close of each fiscal year, the results of
both financial and technical audits would be made available to FUNBIO's Board of Directors, donors
and affiliates, as well as to the Government and the Bank.



7 7                                      Annex 9
Attachment I
Project 11
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FINANCIAL/INVESTMENT CONSULTANT
In light of Brazil's recognized biodiversity importance in the world, the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) has allocated US$30 million for GEF Biodiversity Projects in Brazil. Project I will be
carried out directly by the Government and Project 11 by an independent fund (FUNBIO) operating
within the Getuilio Vargas Foundation, a private foundation with public objectives.
2.     Under Project 11, the Bank will make a grant for US$20 million from the GEF Trust Fund to
FUNBIO for financing biodiversity sub-projects. To manage this grant, the project will establish a
sinking fund (Trust Fund) to be administered by FUNBIO and support a long-term grant program to
promote conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Brazil. FUNBIO will contract a
professional financial/asset manager to manage the Trust Fund in accordance with investment strategies
and guidelines established by FUNBIO and acceptable to the Bank. FUNBIO's Board of Directors will
select this asset manager from a short list of qualified firms, as acceptable to the Bank. To develop the
short list, as well as provide advice regarding investment strategies and guidelines, FUNBIO would
need to be assisted by an experienced financial/investment consultant.
Building on recent, similar research prepared for other GEF projects with environmental trust
funds (e.g., Uganda, Bhutan), the consultant should prepare a report which includes:
(1)    Possible investment strategies and guidelines consistent with recommended best
practices for GEF trust fiinds and the objectives of the project and FUNBIO, with
particular attention to a,;set allocation (equity vs. bonds and liquidity, domestic vs.
offshore, rates of return, etc.), dealing with various risks (inflation, exchange, market
volatility) and spending/investment rules;
(2)    Analysis of a short list of four to six qualified investment firms (offshore and
domestic, if relevant), to include coverage of the following information:
(a)    A statement proposing how to manage the US$20 million
capital fund, disbursed over five years;
(b)    Recent and historical performance data;
(c)    A nominated management team with relevant details on its
members; and
(d)    Suggested management fees/cost of managing the fund.
(3)    A summary of the services to be performed by the prospective fund managers,
ranking them by priority and justifying the ranking.



7 8                                        Annex 9
Attachment I
Project II
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR ASSET MANAGER
Investment Capability
1.     Powers - Asset Manager has capability and flexibility to invest so as to reach or exceed
established benchmarks.
2.     Performance Record - is consistently (10 years or more) above or in line with relevant general
and specific benchmarks.
3.     Capacity - Asset Manager has experience and capacity in construction of balanced portfolios
consisting of significant proportions of long-term fixed-income instruments, equities and cash,
and has independent research and analysis capability.
4.     Cost - Asset Manager is comparatively cost-effective relative to other asset managers with
similar responsibilities.
Experience and Reputation
1.     Experience - is extensive in terms of years, foreign and local clients, and specific asset types
which are re.cvant to the Trustee's needs and objectives.
2.     Reputation and Ratin,e - based on reference checks, reputation is excellent; international rating
is top (AAA or AA) and has high client retention rates.
3.     Management and Staff - are competent, highly professional, and compatible with foreign and
local investors; generate significant business volume.
4.     Social and Environmental Responsibility - Asset Manager is capable of adapting the portfolio
to criteria that the client may impose regarding issues of social and environmental
responsibility.
Safety and Stability
1 .    Safety and Stability - Asset Manager maintains investment philosophy and portfolio which is
not high risk, as demonstrated by historical and current portfolio; has no (or little) history of
legal difficulties; can ensure that assets are protected from being used in any way other than
that intended; is not affiliated with financially unsound institutions or politically vulnerable
countries.
2.     Liability - Asset Manager has a fiduciary responsibility and is held responsible for a "standard
of care" which ensures that funds are not misused; is not eligible for any indemnity from the
Trustee (or at most, only indemnity for losses due to Trustee negligence).



7 9                                        Annex 9
Attachrnent I
Project II
3.     Risk Management Systems - Asset Manager has capability and flexibility to invest in long-term
assets, regularly employs mechanisms (e.g., automatic stops) for avoiding losses due to large
moments in markets, capability and flexibility regarding use of hedging instruments, and
capability and flexibility to diversify investments across countries and asset types.



PRELEMINARY INVESTMENT ANALYSIS OF THlE BRAZLIAN IEODIVERSITY FUND
yeo   I     yeu 2       you 3       yV t4       ye-S 6    yea6        yu aV  y5a8      9     yu 1O    Vow 11    yawt 12          yaw 13      yea  14     yes 15
GEF Tiusi Fund Cosainibutionst          I     10.000        2,500       2.600       2.600       2.00
Maldeng ContsItautions                  2                   1,250       1.250       1,260       1.260
Capetss nomiWeal, BOY                         10.000      12,262      14,625      17.095       19.678   18.830       16,171      14.741      13.168      11,436        9.535       7.455       5,182       2.702
hnvestmeit Income Inomnaiit l          3         650          797        9S1        1.111       1,279    1,211        1.051         968         856         743          620         485         337         178
Magmontoass & tremactlncoasls    4               150          184        212         258          295      279         243          221         197         172          143         112          78          41       2.52
Aveulia to psolpramn                    5      1.988        2.000       2.011       2,022       2,032    2.098        2.238       2.312       2.390       2,472        2.557       2.646       2.739       2.837      34,607
Totsal aSnd iwes                               2.130        2.184      2.231        2,278       2.327    2,377       2,480        2.633       2,688       2.643        2,700       2.758       2.817       2.877      37.369      0
End of yea caotal                              8.612      10,875       13,34S      15,928      18.630   17,464       14.741      13.166      11.435       9,535        7.455       6.1e2       2.702            0
t Itl CEf Tmu F.e.  w4.b u-s whe Sk*A% rFw  we Wead w     tw Okaa a.s&. Thea. cwatdalaa&a Aod t. t.e'wm  - do GEF Ta.m ftd.
2 As.s Lm 60 p.4     0 p.iusw cemw*s.,. cqased oht .*-te-- lm toeni ina GEF T-.U Furad debwsaau h yo& 2 * e.isu, S6 e he i. cias
3 ASlas. *% mem * - lea....@ heIeai. tesagem. a    1w   S  NCea ue t W   eed _id _Se.
4. ASeS    I.      " &W SUd &cIam rS har bom .eiheu.ad at t.5% S   d t.
I The     b. e * e Si.. 5        be  - She _ o  Sisee sal mid UsP4a.    D-   ltarmSled -. OSiWe et U. aehea  Id   Sh .bm tamis 1.Id  dkehied at SVW NWd W r  20.
k i. W-o "--Ied She MMe Glmnaima"eW iAme...4 a. sale 0* ebe  2 . 0m Yew SO behade aPac1ed badelloe
WY: fsteM .e Ye
PM.  l.*" SeugF..ds  he.. py1 e. d   es I* eaae m4a. Tb e... pm.vtleq tm ..k.eu_ed n.ae eteseaeacaa e Sh ceph st_..
o _s >



81                                    Annex 9
Attachment 3
Project II
FUNBIO'S PRELIMINARY ANNUAL ESTIMATED ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
(US$ 000)
Salaries                                                340
Executive Director                       80
Program Assistant (1)                    40
Secretary (1)                            25
Technical Assistant                      25
Benefits                                170
Office expenses                                         20
Printing and services                     5
Equipment/Supplies                       15
Travel and Representation                               40
Outside Services                                        80
Contingencies                                           40
Total                                                   520



82                                  Annex 10
Project II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
DRAFT GUIDELINES FOR FUNBIO OPERATIONAL MANUAL
The general topics listed below, as well as Annexes 1 1 and 12 will be an integral part of the
Operational Manual that is currently under revision by the Bank. The final version of the Operational
Manual will be approved by the Bank before effectiveness of the Grant Agreement is declared.
The operational manual will address the following issues:
General Comments
The operating manual should be consistent with FUNBIO's internal regulations and address at
least the following issues:
1) Objectives, including a description of FUNBIO's focus and niche;
2) Organizational structure, including organizational chart (FUNBIO within FGV);
composition of Board and mechanism for re-electing Board members; roles and
responsibilities of the members of the Board of Directors, President, Vice-President,
Executive Director and key staff; operating procedures of the Board; profile of staff
positions; process for the selection of the President, Executive Director, and other staff;
description of staff positions (Annexes could include terms of reference for the Executive
Director or for special committees, etc.);
3) Funding sources, including existing and potential sources; mechanisms to attract private
sector participation; programmed fund raising activities;
4) Detailed spending and investment rules, including acceptable levels of risk for investments,
limits on capital invasion, mechanisms for re-investment of unspent income (e.g., in years
with high investment performance), and mechanisms for incorporating and managing
additional grants and assets provided by sources other than the GEF Trust Fund.
5) Operating procedures for awarding of grants, including:
6) Calls for Sub-Project Proposals: procedures for setting priorities for sub-project thematic
eligibility and calls for proposals; procedures to determine types and size of grant to be
awarded; guidelines for budget preparation, including sample forms, permissible budget
categories, matching requirements for non-profit and for-profit applicants; procedures for
publication of requests for proposals; description of dissemination vehicles (including
press, mailings, notification of professional and trade associations, and NGOs);
7) Sub-Project Selection and Approval: procedures for judging proposals, including selection
of technical reviewers; criteria for evaluation; guidelines to indicate and mitigate any
environmental impact of sub-projects; feedback provided to proposing organizations;



83                                      Ainex 10
Project 11
notification of results of evaluationl. Draft eligibility and selection criteria are included in
Annex  11.
8) Guidelines for setting administrative costs of FUNBIO and for financing fundraising
programs and other FUNBIO activities;
9) Financial management arrangements, including guidelines for contracting with and
disbursing to grant beneficiaries; contracting with and establishing investment guidelines
for an asset manager, auditing, and financial reporting; general guidelines for procurement
of goods and services. For contracting and disbursement to sub-project beneficiaries,
annexes could include, e.g., model contracts, statements of expenditure, and reporting
forms.
10) Guidelines for monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects and lessons learned. Draft
guidelines for a monitoring and evaluation program are included in Annex 12.
11) Other items: procedures for complaints, appeals, and reconsideration; guidelines for staff
conduct and client relations, including discussions of conflict of interest, confidentiality,
and disclosure of information.
Additional Guidelines and Suggested Annexes to the Operational Manual
1) Investment guidelines for the asset manager consistent with recommended best practice for
GEF trust funds (see Annex 9);
2) Terms of reference for the Executive Director and key staff;
3) Guidelines for appointing Board members as well as technical and advisory committees;
4) Guidelines for identifying, developing, submitting, and selecting sub-projects (e.g., model
public procurement document and contract);
5) Guidelines for settlement of disputes/claims.



84                                  Annex 11
Projects I & II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
DRAFT SUB-PROJECT ELIGIBILITY AND SELECTION CRITERIA
FUNBIO and PROBIO will provide financial support to sub-projects of governmental and non-
governmental entities, including the business sector, provided these projects conserve biodiversity
and/or use it sustainably, and would also contribute to the following objectives:
1) Demonstrate and test innovative models and methodologies;
2) Support environmental education and human resources training programs on biodiversity
issues;
3) Support biodiversity research and assessments;
4) Meet specific objectives as elaborated by FUNBIO's Board of Directors and by
PRONABIO's Coordinating Commission.
Eligible entities include: (i) federal, state, and municipal institutions and agencies; (ii) private
for-profit businesses (in the case of FUNBIO); (iii) NGOs; (iv) for research projects, individual
researchers; and (v) consortia of the above.
Financing may be in the form of contracts (with business entities, for projects involving
financial benefits and profits, which will be supported by loans, according to terms spelled out in the
Operational Manual) or agreements (grants to non-profit organizations and entities).
FUNBIO will conduct a technical evaluation of the proposals received on the basis of selection
criteria agreed with MMA/PRONABIO. Recommendations on sub-project selection will be reviewed
by FUNBIO and subsequently transmitted to PRONABIO's Coordinating Commission for review and
action. Projects will be selected according to criteria which will include, among others:
1) Congruence with the objectives of FUNBIO and PRONABIO;
2) Value in relation to the resources available;
3) Presentation, including conformance with forms and analysis required;
4) Compatibility with governmental environmental biodiversity programs and priorities;
5) Proposing organization's experience with biodiversity projects;
6) Proposing organization's record of compliance with environmental laws.
More specific criteria could include:
1) Innovativeness for new sub-projects or replicability for demonstrated successful sub-
projects;
2) Clarity in identifying the problem to be addressed;
3) Clear definition of methodology;



85                                     Annex 11
Projects I & II
4) Applicability and appropriateness of the proposed technologies;
5) Relevance of the proposed sub-project to the priorities defined by workshop results and/or
calls for proposals;
6) Technical and administrative capacity of the proposing institution to execute the proposed
sub-project;
7) Environmental sustainability;
8) Participation of the affected population in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of
the results of the sub-project.
9) Social viability insofar as the proposed activities address needs identified by the affected
population;
10) Adequacy of requested budget to achieve objectives in the time frame proposed; and
11) Quality of interdisciplinary linkages.
Guidelines to evaluate the environmental impact and social assessments of the sub-projects will also
be applied. These guidelines should ensure that sub-projects will (i) follow good environmental practices,
(ii) properly address any sensitive social issues, and (iii) mobilize matching funding from grant recipients.
Good environmental practices imply, for example, taking care in the design of new tourist facilities and
ensuring that any sub-project supported harvesting of wild organisms is sustainable. Properly addressing
social issues includes (i) ensuring that any involuntary resettlement (if unavoidable) would follow Bank
policy and (ii) promoting adequate participation by local stakeholders in the design and implementation of
sub-projects. Mechanisms for matching fund contributions from sub-project grant recipients were agreed at
negotiations.
Proposals will be judged according to compatibility with criteria specificallv set forth in each
call for proposals. which will be based on the list above. To be eligible for funding, all project
sponsors must contribute financially at least 25 % of the cost of proposed sub-projects. The matching
contribution requirements by sub-project proponents would depend on the size of the grant and on
whether the entity is public or private. The details of the mechanism, type and size of contributions
would be spelled out in the Operational Manual.
Calls for proposals will be issued through FUNBIO following their approval by PRONABIO's
Coordinating Commission and the Bank. The calls will include specific selection criteria applicable to
each round. For example, Attachment 1 lists proposed criteria for sub-projects to be implemented by
private-sector for-profit businesses.



8 6                                       Annex 11
Attachment I
Project II
DRAFT GUIDELINES FOR PRIVATE SECTOR (BUSINESS) PROJECTS
Eligibility Criteria
Proposed sub-projects will be eligible for funding upon meeting the following criteria.
(1)     Types of business activities to be funded
a)  In general, FUNBIO seeks to provide support to businesses that:
i.  Increase the income and employment realized from a natural area while assuring its
continued conservation and sustainable mnanagement;
ii. Create employment and income as a result of restoration and sustainable
management of degraded areas;
iii. Substitute sustainable practices and technologies for existing unsustainable
practices and technologies;
iv. Improve markets for sustainably produced products and services;
v. Enhance, rather than compete with, conimunity-based development and marketing
of products and services;
vi. Provide technical and support services to businesses and other entities achieving
the outcomes above.
b)  Business projects may be deemed eligible by complying with conditions set out in
calls for proposals as issued by FUNBIO.'
c)   An "open" category may also be established to consider proposals for sub-
projects that do not respond to a specific call for proposals but meet the criteria established
herein.
(2)     Necessary conditions
(a)     The sub-project must:
i. Follow all project guidelines FUNBIO may establish for sub-projects in its sector,
including guidelines for the amount that may be requested, and for the percentage
of FUNBIO and corporate investment.
ii. Supply all information requested in application forrns or guidelines.2
The assumption here is that FUNBIO will wish to support business projects linked to other investments. Thus, when
FUNBIG supports a protected area or extractive reserve, for example, it may issue a call for proposals for appropriate
businesses for the area. It may also issue calls for proposals in distinct sectors, such as agriculture, forestry, and tourism.
2 This should include information (quantification where possible) on the biodiversity conservation or restoration benefits to
be achieved, directdy or indirectly, including information about the basis upon which the expected benefits are calculated.



87                                      Annex 11
Attachment 1
Project 11
iii. Present a business plan of at least three years, including projections of progress
toward sustainability and profitability if these are not achieved within the first three
years.
iv. Show compliance with all applicable legislation, including environmental
legislation.
v. Include, as part of its business plan and budget, resources for independent technical
assessments of the environmental impact and sustainability of the planned
activities. This includes pre-implementation environmental impact assessments of
any proposed construction (roads, buildings, etc.) as well as periodic and/or end-
of-project assessments,
(b)    If the sub-project includes civil works to be financed with FUNBIO funds,
submit the following documentation:
i. Complete description of the civil works;
ii. Construction materials used;
iii. Estimate of costs and timeline for construction; and
iv. Address where the construction will occur.
(c)    The proposing entity must:
i.  Have been legally constituted for at least one year by 90 days prior to the date
upon which FUNBIO will formally consider the proposal;
ii. Show relevant professional experience in natural resource management or
sustainable development; and
iii. Demonstrate a corporate record of compliance with environmental laws and
regulations and audit requirements.
(d)    The proposing entity must not be in a state of default; that is:
i.  The entity is not indebted to government or other entities. The corporation should
supply standard Brazilian documentation (certificate of non-indebtedness);
ii. The entity has not failed to fulfill the requirements of previous projects funded by
FUNBIO, and is up to date on all accounting and reporting requirements and with
payment on any loans previously granted.3
3 Note that many trust funds place a limit on the number of projects a single entity may present to the fund -- usually one at
a time.



88                                    Annex 11
Attachment 1
Project 11
Selection Criteria
Proposed sub-projects will be selected for funding according to the following criteria:
(1)    Relevance of the sub-project to the obiectives of FUNBIO and PRONABIO.
The business activity should achieve one or more of the following:
(a)    Complement or enhance sustainable development plans and policies for the
region in which it operates;
(b)    Contribute to the improved management of special protected areas such as
parks, national forests, extractive reserves, or indigenous reserves;
(c)    Test or employ innovative technologies;
(d)    Demonstrate the economic viability of environmentally and socially sustainable
systems of natural resource management; and/or
(e)    Strengthen the capacity of local populations to participate in and benefit from
sustainable development activities.
(2)    Probability that the activities will be environmentally sustainable.
(3)    Efficiency in use of fund resources to achieve objectives.
(a)    Value of conservation/sustainable development benefits relative to investment
required.
(b)    Level of economic benefits to be generated by sustainable uses.
(c)    Potential to generate long-term income to the public sector for support of
purposes such as protected areas (user fees, concession fees, tax revenues, etc.)
(d)    Amount of the businesses' own investment relative to request from FUNBIO.
(4)    Innovativeness and replicabilitv of activities.
(5)    Social viability: Preference will be given to those business ventures that originate in
the communities in which they propose to operate, or that can demonstrate involvement of
local residents in planning and management; that provide markets for locally produced goods;
that support or complement (as opposed to competing with) locally managed businesses; and/or
that provide employment and training opportunities for local residents.
(6)    Unique applicability of resources from the fund (as compared to availability of other
sources of finance): Implementation of this provision requires that FUNBIO acquire data about
other institutions offering grants and loans for businesses, and their conditions.



89                                  Annex 12
Projects I & II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
DRAFT MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN
The objective of monitoring and evaluation is to provide timely information to assist project
and sub-project implementing agencies in reviewing progress achieved in their work and difficulties
encountered, and to measure overall project performance and impact.
The monitoring and evaluation plan was agreed during negotiations and is described below.
The processes to be followed by PROBIO and FUNBIO to monitor and evaluate project performance
and impact are described in Section A. The specific performance impact indicators for the activities
known at this stage are included in Section B. The information contained in this Annex will be
included in the Operational Manual of both projects. Indicators for individual sub-projects would be
developed in the proposals submitted by the potential sub-project grant recipients.
Objective
The overall goal of the two projects is to promote and support partnerships among government,
non-profit organizations, academic institutions, and the private business sector to improve Brazil's
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. The goal would be pursued through two separate but
related projects. Project I (PROBIO) would support the Government to initiate a program for the
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity by identifying priority actions; stimulating the
development of sub-projects through the facilitation of partnerships between the public and private
sectors; and disseminating biodiversity. Project II (FUNBIO) would support the establishment and
development of a long-term Biodiversity Fund that administer a grants program.
Project II will provide an opportunity to test the effectiveness of trust funds as mechanisms for
long-term financing of biodiversity conservation, and to address the associated design and management
issues. Thus, two types of monitoring and evaluation will be necessary: (i) monitoring and evaluation
of the GEF project per se; and (ii) evaluation of the project's impact on biodiversity conservation in
Brazil, and its effectiveness in generating participation and additional funding sources to assure
continuation of the funding mechanism as a sustainable source of support for biodiversity activities.
A. PROCESSES TO MONITOR AND EVALUATE PROJECT RESULTS
Results
The results of the monitoring and evaluation system include:
1) Management of information from reports, studies, and results of workshops at both project and
sub-project levels; and



90                                       Annex 12
Projects I & 11
2) Reports and special studies submitted to the Bank.
Responsibilities
In general, the PRONABIO Technical Secretariat (for Project I) and FUNBIO's Executive
Secretariat (for Project II) will be responsible for project monitoring and evaluation (hereafter, "the
Secretariats"). Their responsibilities in this area include the following:
Sub-Project Monitoring and Evaluation4
1) Assist sub-project implementing agencies in designing their own monitoring and evaluation
indicators and data collection strategies;
2) Establish, distribute, and monitor standard forms to be used for sub-projects with respect to
submission of data on financial, physical, and other administrative indicators;
3) Submit to the Bank for approval, as part of the Annual Operating Plan, the design of monitoring
and evaluation for sub-projects;
4) Approve and inform executing agencies about final evaluation reports on sub-projects;
5) Carry out visits to supervise sub-projects of particular interest or importance, and those with
evidence of serious implementation problems;
6) Hire consultants to conduct evaluation studies of concluded sub-projects in order to select cases
with important lessons or which have significant potential and size.
Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation
1) Prepare a consolidated six-month activity report for submission to the Bank. For Project I,
reporting would include the status of workshops and their expected outputs and the status of the
Biodiversity Network as well as sub-projects. For Project II the report would detail the number of
proposals received for sub-projects, and provide a summarized description of sub-projects and their
status in the consideration/approval/implementation cycle.
2) Prepare a consolidated evaluation report on the impact of project activities, to be submitted
annually to the World Bank. As discussed above, this report would evaluate project
implementation and also provide information necessary to evaluate the Biodiversity Fund as a
mechanism for biodiversity conservation.
a)     The annual evaluation report should cover (i) institutional capacity of
the implementing agencies (PRONABIO and FUNBIO), including progress on indicators of
board and staff development, effectiveness of technical committees, development of
documents and processes; (ii) financial effectiveness, documenting adherence to guidelines
These responsibilities may be formally delegated to Administrative Agents.



91                                       Annex 12
Projects I & II
for investment (of the Biodiversity Fund in Project II) and disbursement (for sub-projects
in both projects); and (iii) any legal issues, including progress toward assuring that
adequate legal instruments have been established. (See Section B-1 and B-2 for details)
b)     Evaluation of the Brazil Biodiversity Fund as a mechanism for
biodiversity conservation. Data would be provided on (i) success relative to the objective
of promoting public-private partnerships, including participation of governmental and non-
governmental sectors; (ii) biodiversity impacts; (iii) social impacts; and (iv) progress in
fund-raising.
c) It is expected that two features of Project I -- the biome-level workshops and
the national Biodiversity Network -- will be fully integrated into the monitoring and
evaluation process, by providing baseline data on the current status of species and
communities, and identifying and maintaining data on target areas and indicator species and
communities. The Secretariats, in supervising sub-project monitoring and evaluation,
would coordinate with the Biodiversity Network to assure that existing data is used for
baseline and updated studies wherever feasible, and that new data are generated in formats
compatible with those employed by the Network.
3) The monitoring of sub-projects is primarily the responsibility of the implementing agencies, which
report periodically to the appropriate Secretariat. Implementing agencies should:
a) Design the monitoring and evaluation component as part of the sub-project proposal,
including monitoring indicators and indicators for evaluation of progress toward sub-
project goals;
b) Continuously collect data required for reporting to the Secretariat;
c) Submit reports to the Secretariat every six months, based on standard forms and including
additional data, as agreed with the Secretariat or its agent;
d) Prepare a final report upon sub-project completion, describing to what extent the sub-
project's objectives were met, problems and questions that were raised during sub-project
implementation, and new or replicable experiences gained from the sub-project. Mid-term
evaluations may be required by the PRONABIO Technical Secretariat for projects having a
duration of three years or more;
e) Cooperate as needed with supervision visits, analysis, and evaluation reports, evaluation
workshops, and reviews of participants' and beneficiaries' inputs.
4) Either through their own actions or through collaboration with other entities, including the hiring
of consultants, the Secretariats would:
a) Provide guidelines and assistance for the design of monitoring and evaluation systems to
groups of potential beneficiaries;



92                                       Annex 12
Projects I & 11
b) Provide guidelines and assistance to sub-project implementers on the use of monitoring and
evaluation techniques;
c) Evaluate the design of monitoring and evaluation for sub-projects when analyzing
proposals, indicating whether additional assistance may be necessary;
d) Identify, during evaluation of proposals, cases in which external technical assistance may
be required during or after sub-project implementation.
5) The Bank would carry out biannual supervision of the project in conjunction with the Secretariats
to determine whether the project is meeting its objectives.
Methods and Activities
Monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by the Secretariats based on sub-project data,
information from the biodiversity database, and other monitoring and evaluation data identified as
necessary and collected by the Secretariats and their consultants. The Bank would receive regular
reports on monitoring and evaluation.
Monitoring and evaluation for sub-projects would be carried out using a series of instruments,
including but not limited to the following:
1) Self-monitoring and self-evaluation for all sub-projects. Reports compiled by implementing
agencies could be supplemented by participatory evaluation assisted by the Secretariats or surveys
of beneficiaries;
2) Monitoring and evaluation visits by Secretariat staff. Staff would periodically visit sub-project
sites to verify reported progress and evaluate progress toward sub-project goals, especially for sub-
projects experiencing difficulties in implementation;
3) Evaluation studies. Consultants would be hired to carry out studies on sub-project implementation
and evaluation, based on random samples, or according to samples chosen by the Secretariats.
The Secretariats may hire consultants to conduct studies on sub-project performance and impact
in relation to critical management or technical issues. In addition to data collected on a sub-project's
contributions to project objectives, in their evaluation studies, consultants would assess the
environmental and economic sustainability of sub-project activities.



93                                   Annex 12
Projects I & II
B. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1. Performance indicators for the National Biodiversity Project (PROBIO)
Evaluation of Proiect Implementation
The following benchmarks will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of project implementation.
The benchmarks fall under three broad categories: institutional structure, administration, and
biodiversity impact at the sub-project level.
INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE
*    PRONABIO's Coordinating Commission has defined directives and priorities for
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use, has established sub-projects eligibility and
selection criteria, and is making sound funding decisions on the suitability of sub-projects.
*     sThe composition and responsibilities of PRONABIO's Coordinating Commission is
being maintained in accordance to Decree 1354 of December 29, 1994.
*    The General Coordination Unit for Biodiversity/MMA has been responsible for the
Technical Secretariat of PROBIO and has maintained its responsibilities in accordance with
MMA internal regiment.
*    The Technical Secretariat of PROBIO is functioning efficiently and is staffed with
qualified professionals and competencies to fulfill its responsibilities.
*    CNPq is providing efficient administrative and financial support to PROBIO.
*    UNDP is providing efficient technical support to PROBIO.
*    FUNBIO is carrying out the selection of PROBIO's sub-projects in accordance with the
directives set by PRONABIO's Coordinating Commission and with the Operational Manual.
ADMINISTRATION
*    PRONABIO Coordinating Commission has met at least twice each year and has carried
out its responsibilities as established in the decree establishing PRONABIO.
*    At least, one request for proposals has been published each year.
*    Documents and processes are developed in a timely fashion, lessons are learned from
applying the processes. The Operational Manual is up-dated from time to time, after
consultation with the Bank, to reflect improvement in processes.
*    Complaints are registered and properly dealt with.
*    Satisfactory Annual Operating Plans are submitted to the Bank for review in a timely
manner. A satisfactory work program would contain a clear statement of objectives and the
proposed activities would be consistent with these objectives.



94                                    Annex 12
Projects I & 11
*    Contracts with implementing entities and disbursement of funds for the various activities
and sub-projects are made in a timely and efficient manner.
*    Satisfactory annual progress reports are submitted by the Board to the Bank in a timely
basis.
*    Annual audits show satisfactory performance in funding approved work programs and
competent record-keeping.
*    Procurement is made in accordance to Bank-approved procedures.
*    The government is conmmitted to PROBIO as evidenced the timely release of the
counterpart funds (US$10 million).
BIODIVERSITY IMPACT:
*    The government public policies in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use have
improved compared to the period before the project started: (i) clear biodiversity conservation
strategies have been agreed among major stakeholders, adopted by the Goverrnent and
disseminated; (ii) government funding decisions and policy recommendations are more strategic.
*    PROBIO has promoted the partnership and alliances among public and private sector
through the active participation of non-govermnental and governmental sectors in sub-projects
implementation. Alliances among rural, local groups, and governments have been created therefore
improving the decision making process for biodiversity conservation and use where actions are
taking place.
*    The dissemination and use of biodiversity inforrnation have improved. Major actors in
biodiversity work in Brazil are sharing information and experiences through electronic means.
*    PROBIO has generated new technologies, approaches and applied information for
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use. These outputs are of high quality, numerous, and
relevant to development. New models of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use have been
tested, lessons are being learned rapidly from them and when successful, they have been replicated
and disseminated.
*    PROBIO's sub-projects and activities have resulted in decreased biodiversity loss,
deforestation, poaching and protected areas encroachment. This impact will be measured by
assessing the diversity in the portfolio of sub-projects, their innovativeness in finding solutions
to the various threats to biodiversity protection and in their effectiveness on the ground. The
impact of the project on biodiversity conservation and sustainable use will be evaluated against
baseline information provided by grant recipients in their proposals for funding. For the first-
round sub-projects and workshops already approved, the monitoring indicators have been
agreed and will be included in the Operational Manual.
2. Performance indicators for the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project (FINBIO)
Evaluation of Proiect Implementation
The following benchmarks will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of project implementation.
Success in meeting the implementation benchmarks will also serve to determine at what point the Bank



95                                    Annex 12
Projects I & II
ceases supervision of the project. The benchmarks fall under three broad categories: institutional
capacity, financial effectiveness, and the adequacy of the legal framework.
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
*    A committed Board of Directors has met at least three times each year and has carried out
its responsibilities as established in FUNBIO's by-laws.
*    The Executive Secretariat is functioning and staffed with qualified professionals.
*    The Technical Committees are working effectively and have provided advise to the Board
of Directors on the suitability of sub-projects from the perspective of biodiversity conservation
and sustainable use.
*    Needed documents and processes are developed in a timely fashion, lessons are learned
from applying the processes. Operational Manual is up-dated from time to time, after
consultation with the Bank, to reflect improvement in processes.
*    The selection of activities and sub-projects is made in accordance with the Board's project
eligibility and selection criteria and rules set out in the Operational Manual
*    Complaints are registered and properly dealt with.
-    Satisfactory Annual Operating Plans are submitted to the Bank for review in a timely
manner. A satisfactory work program would contain a clear statement of objectives and the
proposed activities would be consistent with these objectives.
D    The disbursement of funds for the various activities and sub-projects is made in a timely
and efficient manner.
*    Satisfactory annual progress reports are submitted by the Board to the Bank in a timely
basis.
*    The fund has a clear written strategy for raising additional funds and is actively pursuing
further donations.
*    Administrative costs are kept within agreed-upon limits, not exceeding an average of
about 15-20%.
*    Annual audits show satisfactory performance on funding approved work programs and
competent record-keeping.
*    Procurement is made in accordance to Bank-approved procedures.
FINANCIAL EFFECTIVENESS
*    Adherence to investment guidelines.
*    Adherence to disbursement guidelines, based on the "capital invasion rule". Capital
invasion has been kept to the minimum agreed, not exceeding US$3 million per year out the
GEF Trust Fund proceeds



96                                    Annex 12
Projects I & II
ADEQUACY OF LEGAL FRAMEWORK
All necessary legislation and other arrangements are in place to assure effective
functioning of the fund, including protection from attachment and taxation.
Evaluation of the Sinking Fund as a Mechanism for Financing Biodiversity Conservation.
The impact of the sinking fund will ultimately be measured by what is "bought" in terms of
biodiversity protection. Such an evaluation, however, would not be feasible within the time frame of
the GEF project; the evaluation of changes in natural systems takes decades and requires the extensive
inventory of key species to obtain data on population sizes and distribution. The collection of such
data is technically difficult, time consuming, and expensive. Moreover, what can be measured is often
hard to interpret both due to inherent natural fluctuation in ecological processes as well as the difficulty
of determining the counterfactual case, that is, what might have occurred in the absence of the project.
For these reasons, project design and implementation are used as proxies for impact.
The success of the trust fund will depend on a series of factors, some of which are under
the control of the project implementors and some of which are not. For example, the trust fund will
require favorable market conditions to generate adequate investment returns, as well as successful fund
raising yet both will depend largely on outside forces. Similarly, the effectiveness of conservation
measures adopted will depend on the quality of their design as well as on national policies and socio-
economic circumstances.
Taking these factors into consideration, the achievement of the benchmarks below will
indicate the success of the trust fund as a mechanism for financing biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use in Brazil.
*    FUND-RAISING SUCCESS: The fund has reached a minimum capital level of $25
million dollars (the goal is to reach this capitalization level within five years from the date of the
grant). In addition, FUNBIO's Board has raised funds to support sub-projects and other
activities. Grant recipients have complied to their requirement of providing 25% in matching
contributions.
*    FINANCIAL EFFECTIVENESS: The investments are providing reliable and adequate
returns. This entails a minimum of 10% annual return of the investment so as to cover program
needs; afford a capital reserve to offset low-yield years and have an estimated US$2.5-3 million
per year investments in biodiversity sub-projects.
*    PUBLIC/PRIVATE SECTORS PARTERNSHIPS: FUNBIO has promoted the
partnership among public and private sector through the active participation of non-
governmental and governmental sectors at the Board level, Technical Committees and sub-
projects implementing entities.
*    GOVERNMENT COMMITMENT: The government is committed to FUNBIO as
evidenced by their active participation in the activities of the Board of Directors and by
supporting its fund raising efforts by facilitating other bilateral or multilateral donations to flow
to the fund, debt-for-nature transactions and other contributions. Commitment is also reflected
by the good working relationS between FUNBIO and PROBIO.



97                                      Annex 12
Projects I & 11
*     BIODIVERSITY IMPACT: The stable financing provided by the sinking fund ensures
that key sub-projects will result in decreased biodiversity loss, deforestation, poaching and
protected areas encroachment. The impact of the project will be measured by assessing the
diversity in the portfolio of sub-projects, their innovativeness in finding solutions to the various
threats to biodiversity protection and in their effectiveness on the ground. The impact of the
project on biodiversity conservation and sustainable use will be evaluated against baseline
information provided by grait recipients in their proposals for funding.
*     SOCIAL IMPACT: The sinking fund's decision-making processes have fostered local
and NGO participation in the management of biodiversity, as evidenced by their active
involvement in decisions about the allocation of resources to key sub-projects in Brazil.



98                                    Annex 13
Project I and Project II
BRAZIL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
I.    Report on Asset Managers for a Trust Fund for Brazil, October 1995.
2.     Report from the General Biodiversity Coordination (MMA) on the status of activities of
PRONABIO, October 1995.
3.    Portaria No. 14, Fundacao Getulio Vargas, creating the Brazilian Biodiversity Fund
(FUNBIO), document includes: Internal Regulations of FUNBIO and initial Board
membership, September 28, 1995.
4.     Final Report of the Biodiversity Consultative Group recommending the institutional
arrangement for Project II, June 29, 1995.
5.    Issues and Options in the Design of Global Environment Facility Supported Trust Funds for
Biodiversity Conservation, 1995.
6.     Draft PROBIO Operations Manual, December 1995.
7.     Draft FUNBIO Operations Manual, December 1995.
8.    Decree No. 1354 establishing PRONABIO, December 1994.
9.     Report on the Fiscal Status of a Brazilian Biodiversity Fund. Alberto Gomes Santos Carneiro,
December 1994.
10.    Formal declaration of intents, Workshop on public-private partnerships in biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use, June 1994.
11.   First Global Forum on Environmental Funds, Santa Cruz, Bolivia, May 1994.
12.   Legislative Decree No. 2, where Brazilian Congress ratifies the United Nations Convention on
Biological Diversity, February 1994.
13.    First-round model sub-project proposals and workshop:
a) "Conservation and Restoration of Biodiversity in Gallery Forests of the Cerrado."
EMBRAPA/University of Brasilia/IBAMA/CAMPO, September 1993 and February 1994.



99                                   Annex 13
Project I and Project II
b) Restoration and Management of the Natural Ecosystems of Brejos de Altitude in
Pernambuco and Paraiba." Federal Universities of Pernambuco/Paraiba/Rural
Pernambuco/SNE, February 1993 and December 1993.
c) "Methods and Strategies for the Integrated Conservation of Genetic Resources."
EMBRAPA/CENARGEN, February, July 1993 and June 1995.
d) "Conservation and Restoration of Atlantic Forest in the Tablelands of Linhares, Espirito
Santo." Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, February 1993.
e) "Management of Conservation Units in the GuaraqueNaba, Parana Region." SPVS/Federal
University of Parana/IBAMA/IAP, January 1993.
f) Proposal for Biome-Level Assessment Workshop on Priority Conservation Areas in the
Cerrado. Pro-Nature Foundation, September 1993.
g) "Biodiversity Information Network / BIN-Brazil, Fundacao Tropical de Pesquisa e
Tecnologia Andre Tosello, February 1993.
14.   By-Laws of the Getulio Vargas Foundation, 1992.



IBRD 27334
VENEZUELA A ,  I                J/  FR.
COLOMBIA ,  t._             *    (SURINAMEyGUIANA,
COLOMBIA     v                      )? v                   'I                o
.GYANA,                  I
C- ''j          ..J\RORAIMA\                         ". AMA PA
r  _,   I'                i       J- Y                    A.\   ~~/               )                                           c
AMAZONAS                                      PARA                  ,;
- A CI-E                                                                                          O _   -  } 'CEA,A-.I          N E
I-                                                      /                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
\ACRE*,                                                                        i        -~ M
/|  t' !_5_s,/;> t  <  / ''ist-4>-  OAS
P E R U                        \.ROND6NIA             .      MATO               1TOCANTINSL                                   .GIAE
\              _-*   /JvMATO ~~~GROSSO         ' /
GOIAS
/1  Bras[Ili9~3
ED.
B     LIVIA                                                           M0 I )  , NAT
-4MATO GROSSO .'                            GTO
DO SL.NTO
P. /<,-NJi PARAGUAY                           _0L-
CHILEI                     \ _                                                    -     ~JANEIRO
ARGENTINA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~"* ~~~500                                            1 000 KILOMETERS
A  R G  E N  T I N  A           r7o                                                 soo             OKILMTR
_ r  g                              t                                     0         200       400      600 MILES
,  \7u                        6   ,URUGUAY                50                          40                          50 3
B RAZ I L
MAJOR BIOMES OF BRAZIL
MAJOR BIOMES:
AMAZONIA                                                                     5   NATIONAL CAPITAL
-      STATE BOUNDARIES
ATLANTIC FOREST AND ASSOCIATED GRASSLANDS                                 ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
GRASSLANDS, SHRUBLANDS (CERRADO), AND PANTANAL
XERIC SHRUBLANDS AND DRY FORESTS /CAATINGA)                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations
and any other information sho'un on
MARINE CONTINENTAL PLATFORM (200 METER DEPTH)                                 this mop do not imply, on the port of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
Source: Adopted from Dinerstein, E, D.M Olson, D J Graham, A.L.              on the legal status of any territory, or
Webster, S.A. Primm, M P Bookbinder, and G. Ledec, 1995 A conservotion       any endorsement or acceptance of
asse ssment of the terrestrial ecoregions of Lotin America ond the Coribbeon.  such boundaries.
The World Bank, Washington, D C.
FEBRUARY 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       14523 BR
Type: PD
@  Printed on recycled paper



