Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND NUMBER 28310
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
and
FUNDAÇÃO GETULIO VARGAS
Dated June 5, 1996
GEF TRUST FUND NUMBER 28310
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1996 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of 
the Global Environment Facility (the GEF), in respect of grant funds provided to 
the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members 
of the Bank as participants of the GEF, and FUNDAÇÃO GETULIO VARGAS (the 
Recipient).
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 
of its Executive Directors, established the GEF, to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
WHEREAS (B)  following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are 
continued in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, dated May 24, 1994 establishing the GEF Trust 
Fund;
WHEREAS (C)  the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing 
of the Project, and the Bank has determined that such assistance would be in 
accordance with the provisions of such Resolution 94-2;
WHEREAS (D)  the GEF participants have approved this Project understanding 
that it is associated with the National Environmental Project which is being 
financed in part by the Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement No. 3173-BR, dated 
August 16, 1990 between the Federative Republic of Brazil (Brazil) and the Bank; 
Page  2
WHEREAS (E)  Brazil, through the letter dated November 9, 1995, from 
Brazil's  Minister of the Environment, Water Resources and the Legal Amazon, has 
agreed that the GEF Trust Fund Grant (as hereinbelow defined) be made to the 
Recipient; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said grant funds (the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant) upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 
with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(15), (18) and (20), 
2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Sections 5.01, 5.03, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and 5.09;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (g), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 (a) and (b) and 
9.08;
(viii)Section 10.03;
(ix)
Article XI; and
(x)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
read as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the 
symbol "SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its 
Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 5.01 (a) thereof, means 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an 
account opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is 
Page  3
credited;
(vii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and the income therefrom 
shall not be used for the purpose of any payment: (a) on account 
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; or (b) payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations."; and
(viii)a new subparagraph (l) shall be added after subparagraph (k) 
in Section 6.02 
as follows: 
"(l) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which 
any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant."
Section 1.02.  Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Asset Manager" means the manager referred to in Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"Asset Management Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
"FUNBIO" means Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade, the 
Brazilian Biodiversity Fund created within the Recipient pursuant to Portaria 
No. 14, of September 28, 1995 of the Recipient's Vice-President;
(d)
"FUNBIO's  Charter" means the charter (Regimento) of FUNBIO 
approved by the Portaria No. 14 referred to in (b) above;
(e)
"Implementing Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Implementing Entity" means any entity which is selected, pursuant 
to the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, to carry out a Subproject;
(g)
"Investment Guidelines" means the guidelines, approved by FUNBIO's 
Board of Directors on February 19, 1996, for the investment of FUNBIO's assets;
(h)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be issued pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
containing, inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the 
Project, the criteria for selection of Implementing Entities and eligibility of 
Subprojects, such criteria to require, inter alia, that the Subprojects follow 
appropriate environmental practices and address any sensitive social issue, 
criteria for the use of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and the income 
therefrom in the financing of Subprojects, indicators to monitor the progress of 
the Project, and the model form of Implementing Agreements;
(i)
"Subgrant" means a grant to be provided by the Recipient, under an 
Implementing Agreement, to an Implementing Entity; 
(j)
"Subloan" means a loan, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, to be provided by the Recipient, under an Implementing Agreement, to 
an Implementing Entity; and
(k)
"Subproject" means any of the projects referred to in Part B of the 
Project, which has been selected, pursuant to the provisions of the Operational 
Manual, for financing by a Subgrant or Subloan.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million and 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,400,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall: (i) through FUNBIO, carry out Part A of the Project; and (ii) cause, 
through the Implementing Agreements, the Implementing Entities to carry out Part 
B of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, investment and environmental practices 
and the provisions of FUNBIO's Charter, the Asset Management Agreement, the 
Investment Guidelines and the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause FUNBIO to be managed by an executive 
director, assisted by staff in adequate numbers, under the guidance of FUNBIO's 
Board of Directors, such executive director and the members of FUNBIO's Board of 
Directors to have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)
The Recipient shall, under a contract satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Asset Management Agreement), employ, as provided in Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, an internationally recognized financial manager (the Asset 
Manager)  for the purposes of managing FUNBIO's assets in accordance with the 
Investment Guidelines.
(d)
The Recipient shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practices.
(e) 
The Recipient shall, through FUNBIO, enter into agreements (the 
Implementing Agreements) with each Implementing Entity, whereby: (i) the 
Recipient shall undertake to provide, out of FUNBIO's resources, the amounts 
required to finance the Subproject to be carried out by such Implementing 
Entity; and (ii) such Implementing Entity shall undertake to carry out such 
Subproject as provided in this Agreement.  The Implementing Agreements shall 
have terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(f) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under each Implementing Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any such 
agreement.
Section 3.02.  The Recipient shall obtain the Bank's prior approval of: 
(a) the eligibility of Subprojects proposed to be carried out in response to the 
first invitation for proposals, before approving such Subprojects; and (b) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the text of any invitation for 
proposals for Subprojects, before approving such invitation.
Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project shall be 
Page  5
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Recipient shall, not later than November 15 of each 
year, furnish to the Bank an annual operating plan satisfactory to the Bank (the 
POA), containing a statement of specific objectives to be achieved by the 
Project during the next succeeding year, and a detailed description of the 
activities to be carried out under the Project during such year.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a) 
furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 and September 30 of 
each year, 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as specified in the Operational 
Manual, on the 
progress of the Project during the respective calendar semester preceding the 
date of each such report;
(b)
furnish to the Bank: (i) not later than one month before the review 
referred to in paragraph (c) below shall take place; and (ii) not later than the 
60th month after the date of this Agreement, a report, in each of such dates, to 
be prepared by an independent entity with qualifications and experience, and 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, evaluating the progress of 
the Project until the date of such report and making recommendations for the 
carrying out the Project;
(c)
not later than the 36th month after the date of this Agreement, 
undertake, jointly with the Bank, an in-depth review of: (i) the progress in the 
execution of the Project and in the attainment of its objectives, such review to 
be based, inter alia, on the reports referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
this Section and on the performance indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual; (ii) the performance of the Asset Manager under the Asset Management 
Agreement; and (iii) the possibility of the launching of a concerted 
fund-raising drive to increase FUNBIO's resources; and
(d) 
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been 
agreed upon by the Recipient and the Bank, during the review referred to in 
paragraph (c) of this Section, as necessary for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the attainment of its objectives, such action to be taken in the 
manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.06.  The Bank may, after the Closing Date, inform the Recipient 
that it has decided not to carry out further supervision of the Project.  Such 
notice shall also confirm any arrangement for the furnishing to the Bank of 
periodic information on the execution of the Project as the Bank and the 
Recipient may have agreed upon beforehand. Upon receipt of such notice, the 
obligations of the Recipient referred to in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 
(a) of this Agreement shall cease.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition, including records and separate 
accounts in respect of the operations and financial condition of FUNBIO.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), including those for FUNBIO, for each fiscal 
year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as 
Page  6
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank  shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information con-cerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Brazil or any other authority shall have taken any action, which, 
in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect, prevent, or interfere with, 
the carrying out of the Project or the performance by the Recipient of any of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
Brazil shall have failed to afford a reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of its territory for purposes 
related to the Project.
(c)
Brazil shall have: (i) been suspended from membership in or ceased 
to be a member of the Bank; or (ii) ceased to be a member of the International 
Monetary Fund.
(d)
Any taxes shall have been levied, in the territory of Brazil, on or 
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Arbitration
Section 6.01.  Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement 
which is not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by 
arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the 
date of this Agreement.  The place of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C., 
United States of America.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) 
of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been approved by FUNBIO's Board of 
Directors;
(b)
FUNBIO's executive director has been employed; and
(c)
the Asset Management Agreement has been signed.
Section 7.02.  The date September 5, 1996 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until a date which 
is fifteen years from the date of this Agreement, provided, however, that the 
Recipient may terminate this Agreement before such date, upon providing notice 
and refunding to the Bank the remaining balance of the GEF Trust Fund Grant not 
needed to cover the eligible expenditures under the Project, and the income 
therefrom.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Page  7
Section 8.01.  The President of Fundação Getulio Vargas is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Fundação Getulio Vargas
Praia de Botafogo, 190
Rio de Janeiro, RJ,  CEP 22.257-970  
       Brazil
Cable address:  
FUGEVAR              
         For the Bank:
Director, Country Department I
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Dennis J. Mahar
Authorized Representative
FUNDAÇÃO GETULIO VARGAS
By /s/ Oscar Mello Flores
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal and Use of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, the proceeds of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant shall be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account as follows:
(a)
after the Effective Date, the amount of $10,000,000 equivalent may 
be withdrawn for deposit in an account of FUNBIO with a commercial bank or banks 
acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment; and
(b)
after the initial withdrawal referred to in (a) above, GEF Trust 
Fund Grant proceeds may be withdrawn for deposit in the account referred to in 
(a) above, in amounts of at least $500,000 equivalent for each withdrawal, 
whenever the Recipient has demonstrated, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
that it has obtained funds for FUNBIO from sources other than the Bank in 
Page  8
amounts equivalent to one-half of the amount to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account.
2.
The proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and the income therefrom shall be 
used, as provided in the Operational Manual, exclusively for financing the 
reasonable cost of: (a) goods, consultants' services and administrative expenses 
under Part A of the Project; and (b) goods, works, consultants' services and 
recurrent costs under Part B of the Project, provided that, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not use an amount equivalent to more 
than $3,000,000 equivalent out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, in 
any year during the period of this Agreement.  For the purposes of this 
paragraph, the term "administrative expenses" means expenses incurred with: (i) 
the payment of salaries and other benefits of FUNBIO's personnel; (ii)  FUNBIO's 
office maintenance and operation; and (iii) travel and representation of 
FUNBIO's personnel and members of its Board of Directors, as specified in the 
Operational Manual, and the term "recurrent costs" means expenditures incurred 
by an Implementing Entity, as a result of the execution of a Subproject, with 
office materials and supplies and transportation.
3.
The Recipient may use an amount of up to $150,000 equivalent on account of 
payments made for FUNBIO's Administrative expenses before the date of the 
Agreement but after October 1, 1995.
4.
No proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant or the income therefrom shall be 
used to finance payments of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, Brazil 
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply 
thereof.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that a payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds or the income therefrom was used for expenditures 
not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, upon 
notice from the Bank, promptly refund, or in the case of Part B of the Project 
cause an Implementing Entity to refund, to the Bank for deposit into the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion 
thereof as shall be specified by the Bank.
6.
The Recipient shall, upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank the 
remaining balance of the GEF Trust Fund Grant not needed to cover eligible 
expenditures under the Project and the income therefrom if, within fifteen years 
from the date of this Agreement, any of the following events shall occur:
(a)
FUNBIO's Charter, the Operational Manual, the Investment Guidelines 
or the Asset Management Agreement have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, would 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the 
attainment of its objectives; or
(b)
FUNBIO has been dissolved or its operations have been suspended.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish a financing mechanism to 
secure long-term funding for conservation and sustainable use of biological 
diversity in Brazil.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
FUNBIO
1. 
Administration and operation of FUNBIO.
2.
Carrying out of studies on development of cost-recovery and fund-raising 
programs and other studies in support of FUNBIO's activities, as well as 
dissemination of such activities.
Part B: 
Subprojects
Carrying out of projects consisting of: 
Page  9
1.
Biodiversity conservation activities, in particular those supporting long 
term biodiversity conservation management initiatives.
2.
Activities related to the sustainable use of biodiversity, including those 
supporting the inter-relationship between biodiversity conservation and 
sustainable use and development practices in the productive sectors of the 
economy.
3.
Studies on policies for biodiversity conservation and sustainable use.
4. 
Applied research to support knowledge and technology development in 
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Specific Procurement Procedures
1.   
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B.2, B.3, and B.4 hereof, goods and works, to 
be procured by a public entity, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In 
the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part B.1, bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank, in standardized form for the Project, shall be 
used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or 
the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or 
works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part B.1:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price 
and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those 
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, 
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation 
to bid.
(b)
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil.
(c)
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures (
consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the 
Bank in each case.
(d)
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
(e)
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue 
any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 
15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit 
prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
National and International Shopping
Goods under Subprojects carried out by a public entity, estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures, at the 
option of such entity, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
Page  10
3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Subprojects carried out by a public entity, estimated to cost 
less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall 
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Goods and services under FUNBIO's administrative expenses and the 
Implementing Entities' recurrent costs, as defined in paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, may be directly purchased from a supplier of such goods or 
services.  
(b)
Goods and works referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 above may be 
directly procured from a supplier or contractor, as the case may be, whenever 
there are less than three suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, willing 
to present quotations.  
The aggregate amount of contracts to be awarded pursuant to this Part B.4 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.   
5.
Procurement by a Private Entity
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, goods and works, to be procured by 
a private entity, shall be procured under established commercial practices 
acceptable to the Bank.  Such goods and works shall be obtained at a reasonable 
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of 
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of works, of 
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.  
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Not later than November 30 of each year of implementation, the proposed 
procurement plan for the following year shall be included in the annual 
operating plan and  furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to all contracts for goods and works.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the 
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based 
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the 
Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval 
of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
Page  11
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost less than $30,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank 
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical 
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementing Agreements
The Implementing Agreements shall provide that the Recipient shall have 
the right to:
(a)
require the Implementing Entity to carry out its Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate administrative, 
financial and environmental practices and the provisions of the Operational 
Manual;
(b)
require that:
(i)
until the notice referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement is given, the goods, works and consultants' 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subgrant 
or Subloan, as the case may be, shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
such goods, works and consultants' services shall be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the corresponding 
Subproject;
(c)
require the Implementing Entity to maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the corresponding component 
of the Subproject;
(d)
inspect, by itself or allow representatives of the Bank to inspect, 
the goods, works, sites and facilities included in such Subproject, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Recipient or the Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Implementing Entity and to the 
benefits derived from such Subproject; 
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Implementing Entity to the 
use of the proceeds of the Subgrant or Subloan (and, in the case of a Subloan, 
accelerate the maturity thereof) upon failure by the Implementing Entity to 
perform any of its obligations under the Implementing Agreement; and
(g)
require that the Implementing Entity refund to the Recipient any 
amount of the Subgrant which may have been used to pay any expenditure not 
consistent with the provisions of the Implementing Agreement.
