Page  1
February 9, 2000
Mr. Jorge Oscar de Mello Flôres
President
Fundação Getulio Vargas
Praia de Botafogo, 190
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, CEP 22.257-970
Brazil
Mr. Pedro Wilson Leitao Filho
Executive Director
Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade
Largo do IBAM 1 - 6º Andar
Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Re:
Brazil:  GEF Trust Fund Number 28310
(Brazilian Biodiversity Fund Project)
Amendment
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
(the Grant Agreement) between the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (the GEF) and the Fundação Getulio Vargas (the 
Recipient).
Pursuant to the request of Fundação Getulio Vargas, dated October 6, 
1999 and of the Federative Republic of Brazil through its Minister of the 
Environment dated December 14, 1999 whereby the Bank was requested to amend 
the Grant Agreement to reflect the intended transfer of rights and 
obligations from Fundação Getulio Vargas, the original Recipient of the 
Grant, to Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade, as a new Recipient of the 
Grant, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Grant Agreement as follows:
1.
Cover, Preamble and signatories page at the end of Section 8.02:  The 
name "Fundação Getulio Vargas" is deleted and replaced by "Fundo Brasileiro 
para a Biodiversidade".
2.
Preamble:
(a)
Whereas (E): the semicolon and the word "and" are deleted at the 
end of the paragraph, and the words "as such request was modified on December 
14, 1999;" are added.
(b)
A new Whereas F is added to read as follows:
"(F)
Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade (FUNBIO) was 
established as a non-profit civil association and wishes to assume 
the rights and obligations of the Recipient under the Grant Agreement 
under the terms of this amendment letter and of an agreement to be 
entered into between Fundação Getulio Vargas and Fundo Brasileiro  para 
a Biodiversidade (the Assignment Agreement);"
3.
Section 1.02:
(a)
paragraph (b): the words "as amended" are added at the end of 
the paragraph;
(b)
paragraph (c) is deleted and replaced by a new paragraph to read 
as follows:
"(c)
"FUNBIO" means Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade, a 
non-profit civil association established under the laws of Brazil 
pursuant to its creation instrument (Ata de Criação) dated December 
2, 
1999;"
Page  2
(c)
paragraph (d) is deleted and replaced by a new paragraph to read 
as follows:
"(d) FUNBIO’s Charter" means the Charter (Estatuto) of FUNBIO 
registered in the Civil Registry of Juridical Persons located in Av. 
Presidente Wilson No. 160 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil with registration 
(matriculado) number 179,105 on page 103, Book 143 dated December 20, 
1999;" and
(d)
paragraph (h): the words "to be issued pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement," are deleted.
4.
Section 3.01:
(a)
paragraph (b) is deleted and replaced by a new paragraph to read 
as follows:
"(b) The Recipient shall be managed by an executive director 
assisted by staff in adequate numbers, with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank.";
(b)
paragraph (c): the words "FUNBIO’s assets" are deleted and 
replaced by "the proceeds of the Grant disbursed to the Recipient"; and
(c)
paragraph (e):  the words ", through FUNBIO," and ", out of 
FUNBIO’s resources," are deleted.
5.
Section 3.05 paragraph (c):  The word "FUNBIO" is replaced by "the 
Recipient" in subparagraph (iii).
6.
Section 4.01:
(a)
Paragraph (a) is deleted and replaced by a new paragraph to read 
as follows:
"(a)
The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial conditions, including records and separate 
accounts in respect of the Project."; and
(b)
paragraph (b):  the words ", including those for FUNBIO," are 
deleted in subparagraph (i).
7.
Section 5.01:  new paragraphs (e) and (f) are added to read as follows:
(e)
FUNBIO’s Charter, the Operational Manual, the Investment 
Guidelines or the Asset Management Agreement have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, 
would materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or 
the attainment of its objectives; or
(f)
FUNBIO has been dissolved or its operations have been suspended.
8.
Section 8.01:  The words "President of Fundação Getulio Vargas" are 
deleted and replaced by "Executive Director of Fundo Brasileiro para a 
Biodiversidade".
9.
Section 8.02:  The Name, Address and Cable Number are deleted and 
replaced by:
Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade
Largo do IBAM 1 - 6º Andar
Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil.
10.
Schedule 1:
(a)
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3:  the word "FUNBIO" is replaced by the 
words "the Recipient" wherever it appears.
(b)
Paragraph 6: the words "of the amounts disbursed" are added 
Page  3
after the words "remaining balance".
11.
Schedule 2:
(a)
The acronym "FUNBIO" in the heading of Part A is deleted and 
replaced by "Project Management"; and
(b)
the acronym "FUNBIO" is deleted and replaced by the words "the 
Recipient" in Parts A.1 and A.2.
12.
The provisions of the Amendment Letter will become effective upon 
receipt by the Bank of:
(a)
a duly executed counterpart of this letter; and
(b)
evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that:
(i)
the existing Asset Management Agreement has been 
terminated by Fundação Getulio Vargas and a new Asset 
Management Agreement has been entered into, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, by FUNBIO;
(ii)
Fundação Getulio Vargas and FUNBIO have entered into the 
Assignment Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank; 
(iii)
the Recipient has adopted the Operational Manual and the 
Investment Guidelines; and
(iv)
a legal opinion of counsel to Fundação Getulio Vargas and 
FUNBIO has been submitted to the Bank on the validity and 
enforceability of the Amendment Letter, the Assignment 
Agreement and the assignment of the Asset Management 
Agreement.
13.
Upon effectiveness of the Amendment Letter, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Recipient and Fundação Getulio Vargas of such event and as of the 
date of such notice, all rights and obligations of Fundação Getulio Vargas 
under the Grant Agreement hereby assumed by FUNBIO shall cease and terminate.
If you agree with the proposed amendment, please sign the confirmation 
form on this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
Fundação Getulio Vargas
By /s/ Carlos Ivan Simonsen Leal
Authorized Representative
Date:
Page  4
AGREED:
Fundo Brasileiro para a Biodiversidade
By /s/ Pedro Wilson Leitao Filho
Authorized Representative
Date:
February 18, 2000
