Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10655
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1558-CRD)
MAY 22, 1992
tSOe      /Ye \iJ  Og
Agriculture Sector Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit: East Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
Official Exchange Rate:  EC$ 1.00 = US$0.37
US$1.00 = EC$ 2.70
ABBREVIATIONS
ACO         -     Agricultural Credit Officer
CAEP        -     Caribbean Agricultural Extension Project
CARDl       -     Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development Institute
CARDATS    -      Caribbean Agricultural Research Development and Training Service
CARICOM    -      Caribbean Community
CDB         -     Caribbean Development Bank
c.i.f.      -     Cost Insurance Freight
CIDA        -     Canadian International Development Agency
EO          -     Extension Officer
FIO         -     Farm Improvement Officer
f.o.b.      -     Free on Board
GAIDC       -     Grenada Agricultural and Industrial Development Corporation
GBCS        -     Grenada Banana Cooperative Society
GCA         -     Grenada Cocoa Producers Association
GCNA        -     Grenada Cooperative Nutmeg Association
GDB         -     Grenada Development Bank
GFC         -     Grenada Farm Cooperative
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
ICO         -     Industry Credit Officer
IDS         -     Industrial Development Specialist
ILS         -     International and/or Local Shopping
LAO         -     Loan Administration Officer
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
MMS         -     Management Maintenance System
MNIB        -     Marketing and National Import Board
MOA         -     Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Forestry, Fisheries and Tourism
MOCW        -     Ministry of Communications, Works, Civil Aviation Energy and
Public Utilities
MOF         -     Ministry of Finance, Trade and Planning
NACDA       -     National Agency of Cooperative Development
NAEIP       -     National Agricultural Extension Improvement Plan
ODA         -     Overseas Development Administration
PMU         -     Project Management Unit
PRG         -     People's Rsvolutionary Government
WINBAN      -     Windward Islands Banana Growers Associaticn
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The English system is generally used. However, the metric system is used in certain
areas.      1.0 mile           = 1.6 kilometers (km)
1.0 inch          = 25.4 millimeters (mm)
1.0 acre          = 0.4 hectare (ha)
1.0 sq. in.       = 2.6 sq. kilometers (km)
1.0 lb.           = 0.45 kilogram (kg)
2,205 lb.          = 1.0 ton (t)
All tons in this report are in metric tons.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Grenada and Grenada Development Bank (GDB)
January 1 - December 3



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dlrector-General
Operatimns Evaluktmn
May 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Grenada - Agricultural
Rehabilitation and CroD Diversification Proiect (Credit 1558-GRD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Grenada - Agricultural Rehabilitation and Crop
Diversification Project (Credit 1558-GRD)" prepared by the Latin American and the
Caribbean Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND CROP )IVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 155S-GRD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Eafe No.
Preface                 .......................................................                             i
Evaluation Sunmary .            ...................................................    iii
Part L PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity  ................              .............................                 1
2.  Project Background ...............            .,                                             1
3. Project Objectives and Description ...............................                            2
4. Project Design and Organization  ................................                             2
5.  Project Implementation  .......................................                              3
6. Project Results .............                                                                 4
7. Project Sustainability  ............             .............................                7
8.  Bank and Borrower Perforniance ................................                              8
9.  Project Relationships ............              .............................               10
10. Consulting Services            ..........................................                   10
11. Project Documentation               .......................................                 11
Part IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... .......   12
Part IlL  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  ..................................                                     19
1. Related IDA Credits ....................                    .....................            19
2.  Project Timetable          .....................          ......................            20
3. IDA Credit Disbursements  ...................................                                22
4. Project Costs and Financing           ..................        ..................           23
5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........             ..     .............        25
6.  Project Results  ..  ..........................................                             28
7.  StatusofCovenants          ..................... .....................                      36
& Use of Bank Resources ....................   39
Map IBRD 18410
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dut.es. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL RE14BILITATION AND CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1558-GRD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Repo-t (PCR) for the Grenada Agricultural Rehabilitation
and Crop Diversification Project, for which IDA Credit 1558-GRD in the amount SDR 5.0 million
(US$5.0 million equivalent) was approved on March 14, 1985. The Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB) cofinanced the project with parallel financing of a line of agricultural credit of US$1.9 million
through the Grenada Development Bank (GDB). The IDA credit was closed on December 31, 1991,
twelve months behind schedule, and final disbursement from the credit account occurred on January
14, 1992. An amount in US$5.96 million has been disbursed under the IDA credit project and SDR
29,294.45 was cancelled effective January 14, 1992. The higher disbursement amount in US$, than
envisaged at appraisal, was made possible by an appreciation in the SDR against the dollar. The
CDB loan was almost fully committed (98%) at its closing date (June 30, 1991).
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Sector Operations Division of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower
(Part H with assistance in Parts I and IH).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in May 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and
interviews with project staff.



-liii-
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROfECT
(CREDIT 1558-GRD)
EVALUATION S Y
Objectives
1.        At the time of appraisal, the agricultural sector in Grenada was rundown and greatly in
need of revitalization. The country was also being transformed from a centrally-controlled economy
to a democratic form of Government oriented to development of the private sector. The principal
objectives of the project were (a) to rehabilitate certain crops and generally increase agricultural
production and (b) to prcGmote the marketing of agricultural crops and agroprocessing. These
objectives were to be achieved through increasing the availability of medium- and long-term credit
and by upgrading and strengthening agricultural support services and the equipment, vehicles, and
facilities rel_vant for these purposes (e.g., marketing structures, agricultural extension, plant
propagation, plant protection, and agricultural education centers, and by harbor improvement and
maintenance of rural roads). The project was fully consistent with the Government's macroeconomic
and political objectives of moving economic activity from the public sector to the private sector and
of increasing agricultural GDP (paras. 2.02, 2.03, 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.        The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) became effective September 18,1985, some
two months after the original deadline, and closed December 1991, twelve months late, after three
extensions to permit the completion of the new harbor jetty and the central cold storage facility and
packing house (para. 5.01).
3.        Discounting the US$0.5 million placed in the Special Accourt, the pace of disbursements
has been running at about three-fifths of appraisal expectations throughout most of the project's life.
The Project Management Board (PMB) never operated effectively as an executive body (para. 4.03).
This delayed key decisions and impeded progress in implementation. Lack of commitment by certain
key officials, retrenchment and low morale in the public sector, reluctance of Government officials
to take responsibility, and work overload all contributed to slow progress in the early years. So-e
key appointments in 1988, including some modifications to the use of the consultant budget, and a
decision by the Minister of Agriculture to assume more direct personal responsibility, sometimes
bypassing the PMB, opened a new chapter in the life of the project (para. 5.02). These changes led
to an acceleration in the use of agricultural credit and movement on key studies which were
prerequisite for the purchase of certain equipment and for the construction program--e.g., cold
storage and pier construction (See Part m, Table 6D, Studies).



- iv -
Results
4.      Actual IDA-project costs were US$5.96 million, exceeding appraisal estimates by some 20%.
But as the credit was denominated in SDRs which appreciated in US dollar terms, these costs were
accommodated within the IDA credit amount with about US$40,600 (29,294 SDRs) being cancelled.
The cost increases occurred mainly because of the purchase ot additional expensive road maintenance
equipment, a large increase in the number of vehicles purchased primarily for the Extension Service,
wage increases arising from a building boom in 1985-87 associated with tourism and because of the
inclusion of a new Grenville jetty (para. 6.02). Impact on employment generation within and outside
agriculture exceeded SAR expectations (para. 6.04). Impact on crop rehabilitation and agricultural
production expansion did not follow closely the "indicative" targets set in the SAR; no investments
occurred in coconut, coffee or irrigated banana production. Other crops came up to or substantially
exceeded expectations and new crops not specifically identified at appraisal were also introduced
(para 6.05, 6.06 and Part III, Table 6A). Substantial onfarm investments occurred in agricultural
equipment and vehicles which were not identified at appraisal. Vehicles were purchased for a variety
of uses including the reduction of postharvest crop losses. Also substantial investments were made
in irrigation equipment to increase dry-season production January-June (para. 6.07).
5.        A major success of the credit component, along with farm mxchanization, was the
expansion it enabled in ag.oindustry. By June 1991, GDB had loan commitments to agroindustry of
EC$ 0.5 million but further projects in the pipeline indicated a total of EC$ 2.1 million in the near
future. These figures may be compared with the appraisal estimate of EC$ 0.8. It is ralculated that
of the 10,000 tons of fruit previously wasted, 4,000 tons were now being used by the new
agroindustries and adding to the country's GNP. New crops were also introduced for the processing
industries (such as hot peppers) and for fresh produce exports (para. 6.08).
6.        Targets (including those revised upwards) for physical facilities and equipment for
upgrading the suppoi.- services and to facilitate crop marketing and exports were all met.
Management reorganizational proposals for the Marketing and National Import Board (MNIB) were
implemented and resulted in increased efficiency and greater emphasis on market development. The
benefits arising from the MNIB cold storage and packing facilities and the increase in exports arising
from the new Grenville jetty will only be measurable later (paras. 6.11 and 6.12).
7.        The technical assistance, studies, and training as well as the associated provision of
vehicles and equipment have achieved much of what was expected in improving the support services
(paras. 6.13, 6.14, and 10.01). The quality of extension personnel has been raised and farm visits have
increased by 30%. Improved plant material is being supplied to farmers and there has been an
increase in tree crop spraying and pruning and plart protection advice to farmers. There has been
a marked increase in rural road maintenance.
Evaluation Summary
8.         Economic and Financial Analysis. Reliable records from PMU and MOA are not
available to perform an economic analysis at project closing. This lack of hard data is primarily due
to MOA's failure to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation unit (para. 8.01). The delays
in project implementation affected project benefits adversely but not seriously. The financial rates



v -
of return for individual farm models calculated by GDB for lending purposes frequently exceeded
IDA appraisal estimates and ranged from 20% to 70% (para. 6.01, Part m. Tables 6B and 6C).
9.        Considering that the country had recently had two coups d'etat (1979 and 1983) and was
transforning itself from a centrally-controlled to a market.-led economy it is concluded that the
project was very relevant, timely, and highly successful in its achievements.
Sustainability                                           i
i'.       The project has established an infrastructure and a technical and psychological base to
serve as a springboard for growth in the private sector of agriculture and agroindustry. To build on
this base, however, requires that the GOG adopt a sector strategy and policy framework which
provides the right environment for the private sector to flourish--e.g., improve access to credit for
model farms through new titling and leasing arrangements; redt  duties; remove subsidies and
Government physical control of imports; improve control of praedial larceny and straying animals
which deter the introduction of new high-value crops; continue to strengthen and upgrade the quality
and widen the geographic dispersal of agricultural support services. The private sector on its part will
need to be sensitive to changes in the local market including the, tourist trade, international export
prospects, and inter-island trade. MNIB has an important role to play in this respect (para. 7.01).
I1.       As urban settlement in Grenada is rapidly expanding and taking up good land,
agriculture is being pushed onto the steeper slopes where the need for vigilance in soil conservation
increases markedly. GOG extension and technical services received technical asistance and training
in conservation practices under the project. There may well be a need for more training and financial
support for this activity in the near future (para. 7.02).
Lessons
12.       The following lessons may be derived from this project: (a) major changes in a country's
political and economic framework exert considerable strain on Government institutions and public
sector personnel which cannot help but affect project implementation; (b) where investment is very
dependent on the outcome of consultant studies and the willingness of private investors to adopt such
proposals, it is unrealistic to give specific targets for their outcome, e.g., investments in processing
facilities for coconut, sugar, and coffee; (c) use o' an ad hoc management board, drawn from a
number of jinistries and agencies to coordinate and exercise executive power for project
implementation, is fraught with difficulties and should be avoided if possible; (d) establishment and
staffing of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would have benefitted the project greatly and should
probably have been insisted upon as a condition of Credit effectiveness; (e) notwithstanding the
difficulties and the temptation to postpone the project in the polit;cal circumstances in which it was
conceived, it probably served effectively in facilitating the transition from a centrally controlled
economy to a free market form of economic activity. IDA and the Borrower showed good judgment
in proceeding resolutely with the project despite the difficulties, because of its relevance at a crucial
moment in the economic life of the country (para 8.09).



PRO.ECT COMPLIKON REPORT
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 15S8-GRD)
Part I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     Project Identity
Project Name: Agricultural Rehabilitation and Crop Diversification Project
Credit No.:   1558-GRD
RVP Unit:    LA3AG
Country      Grenada
Sector:      Agriculture
Subsector:    Agricultural Rehabilitation and Diversification
2.     Project Background
2.01    Grenada is a relatively -.1aid Canbbean island state with a population of around 100,000.
At appraisal, agriculture played a major role in its economy, accounting for about 26% of GDP and
73% of the country's total export earnings. Cocoa, bananas, nutmeg, and mace in descending order
accounted for three-quarters of agricultural exports. However, food imports exceeded agricultural
exports by 13% in value. Agriculture provided employment for about a third of the work force.
2.02    In 1983, the sector was greatly in need of revitalization. It had faced many vicissitudes over
the previous 20 years, including hurricanes (the latest in 1980), adverse world commodity prices, and
major political changes (including coups d'etat in March 1979 and in October 1983) which were not
conducive to investment in the sector. The industry was stagnating and needed to improve its
competitiveness and efficiency in production and marketing. nousands of acres of arable land
(private and public) laid fallow. The extension service was also depleted of good staff and was
relatively ineffective.
2.03    The interim administration in power at time of appraisal indicated its policy objectives were
to establish the necessary infrastructure and supporting services for a private sector-led economic
recovery. In addition they planned to divest several Government-owned enterprises and to reduce
the public debt. The reduced public investment program proposed continued to stress economic
infrastructure and in agriculture inc-luded agricultural rehabilitation, diversification, and agriculture
feeder roads, some of which were being financed by bilateral assistance. The new Government
(elected in December 1984) deciared its ntiitizo t'> broadly continue the policy objectives of Jhe
Interim Administration. The IDA project was consonant with the broad sector and macro policy
objectives stated above.



-2-
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.01    The Project's purpose was to help the Government strengthen the performanw of
agriculture, one of the most critical sectors of the economy. Its principal objectives were: (a) to
rehabilitate crops and expand production; and (b) to promote the marketing of crops for domestic
consumption, export markets, and local agroindustries. Thaese objectives were to be achieved by: (a)
providing medium- and long-term credit to farmers and agroindustries through the Grenada
Development Bank (GDB) with project cofinancing from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB);
(b) upgrading and strengthening existing sapport services, including the Agricultural Extension
Service, the Agricultural School, the Plant Propagation Unit, the Plant Protection Unit, and several
marketing organizations; (c) assisting agroindustry through the provision of financing for feasibility
and marketing studies; and (d) establishing a farm and feeder road maintenance management system
and providing maintenance equipment and a materials/soils laboratory. These activities would be
supported by training and technical assistance.
4.     Project Design and Organization
4.01    The project was originally proposed by the People's Revolutionary Government, which
favored expanding the role of the public sector into most economic activities including agriculture.
FAO/CP succeeded in downs:zing the project and changing its orientation from an area-specific to
an "open-ended" nationwide agricultural development project providing medium- and long-term credit
through GDB to the private sector (farmers and agricultural processors) for viable agricultural and
agrK. adustrial investments. A second cou, d'etat in October 1983, which brouight in an interim
administration, followed later by a democratically-elected Government, facilitated IDA in designing
a project which gave primary emphasis to private sector agricultural development and growth.
Because of the political and structural economic changes being sought by the new Government, the
timing and thrust of the project being proposed were highly appropriate and relevant.
4.02    The Ministry of Ag-iculture (MOA) was to have overall responsibility for the project, but
would delegate authority for implementation to the other participating agencies and institutions. The
highest project authority would be the Project Management Board (PMB), headed by the Minister
of Agriculture or his nominee. Members of the Board would be representatives of the relevant
Government departments and all participating agencies. The PMB would supervise the credit
component under the direct rtsponsibility of GDB and all other activities for which responsibility
would be vested in MOA through the newly established Project Management Unit (PMU) composed
of a Project Coordinator and some support staff. The PMU was to have additional support from a
number of unih in MOA, as well as from other Governmental units and agencies involved in project
implementati;n or monitoring.
4.03    At the initial phase the broad objectives of the project and the need for coordination were
not well understood in the various Government units and other agencies. Also during the period
1985 to early 1988 a program of retrenchment and reorganization was being carried out in the public
sector which resulted in low morale and uncertainties among Government servants. In these
circumstances civil servants were concerned about their future careers and found it difficult to focus
on other matters including integrating the ARDP Project into their daily work In practice the PMB
seldom, if ever, functioned effectively throughout the life of the project. The relationship of the



-3-
PMU to the PMB was a combination of f:-stration and possibly on occasions resentment that such
an unwieldy structure existed in the management chain between the Project Coordinator and 'he
Minister of Agriculture, who was Chairman of PMB and held the executive power as far as the MOA
agencies were concerned. The poor functioning and sporadic meetings of the PMB contributed
substantially to the tardiness of project implementation in the early stages.
4.04    A monitoring unit proposed under the project was never satisfactorily established during the
life of the project. This would have assisted project implementation by highlighting scheduling
problems and coordination. failures. It would also have assisted greatly at the present juncturz in
project evaluation by collecting d.ta to assist in obtaining an overview of trends in diversification,
growth in agric -. ral production, and the impact of the project on agricultural extension and other
agricultural services.
4.05    The Covernment's estate divestiture program, being handled by the Grenada Model Farms
Corporation, was not covered directly by the project although it was agreed that IDA would be
inforned of any developments ;n this program in the course of periodic agricultural policy reviews
between IDA aia Government. During the project's life the Government of Grenada (GOG) and
GDB were unable to formulate a policy with the Grenada Model Farms Corporation which would
have provided security of tenure to model farms and thus a collateral against which GDB could lend.
A resolution of this issue would have increased significantly the number of small farmers who might
have benefitted more under the project.
4.06    In summary, several reasons can be found for the shortcomings of the organization and
management structure. Firstly, the project itself was inherently complicated and difficult to manage.
Secondly, following the past political upheavals several agencies including the MOA were depleted
of qualified higher level staff. Thirdly, morale in the public services was low. And fourLhly, the
portfolio of the Minister of Agriculture included a number of competing responsibilities which
inevitably slowed down decision-making in the agricultural sector. The PMB was itself a cumbersome
and ineffective executing body, ill-suited to the task at hand. Finally, an understanding of the overall
focus of the project and even a commitment to its objectives was sometimes missing, more particularly
during the first half of the project's life.
5.      Project Implementation
5.01    The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) became effectivcn September 18, 1985, some
two months after the original deadline. It was closed on December 31, 1991, twelve months late,
after three extensions (March 31, 1991, June 30, 1991 and December 31, :,)1) to permit the
comp'.. 'ion of the new harbor jetty at Grenville and the central cold storage facility for the MNIB
at St. GJeorge's.
5.02    The failure of PMB to operate effectively, an inadequate understanding of the overall focus
of th_. project, and even a lack of commitment by some members of PMB all contributed to the slow
start and delayed completion of the project. IDA, encouraged by the Project Coordinator, brought
shortcomings in project execution to a head with Government in mid-1988, which coincided with a
change in ministerial responsibilities. A marked improvement followed in project execution. The
Minister of Agriculture accepted greater personal responsibility for project execution, often bypassing



-4 -
the PMB to give executive support to the PMU. A senior MOA staff member was appointed as
liaison with the PMU. The appointment of an investment spe';ialist to work with MNIB and GDB
was agreed and implemented. This had a galvanizing effect on both institutions. MNIB implemented
the reorganization proposal made by consultants financed under the project and became much more
active in export promotioii and in developing local markets. It also led to a marked increase in
lending by GDB for agriculture and agroindustry.
5.03    Overall, the technical assistance components and the purchase of vehicles and equipment,
which were of prime interest and concern to individual agencies, proceeded more or less on schedule.
The major lags occurred in physical construction, organizational changes, and credi2 drawdown.
5.04    Risks. The appraisal report noted in general terms the risks the project might face,
including institutional ones which were described as of moderate magnitude only. It failed in a major
way to take into account the eff . ts of the political upheavals in the preceding years on institutional
capacity and the availability of personnel with suitable managerKal and administrative experience.
Changing the economy back from a centrally- controlled one to a free market entailed a greater
change in institutions and in the psychology of public servants than was recognized by the appraisal
mission. These features contributed substantially to the difficulties faced in the initial stages of
transformation of the economy, which naturally affected project execution as well as a host of other
activities. Qualified technicai staff, managers and administrators in Government prepared to take
decisions and assume responsibilit, -were in short snpply.
6.      Project Results
6.01    Economic and Financial Analvsis.  The project started slowly and the delays were
particularly marked in construction, private-sector lending, and institutional reorganization. These
delays have affected project benefits adversely but not seriously. Reliable records from PMU and
MOA are not available to perform an economic analysis at project closing. This lack of hard data
is primarily due to the MOA's failure to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation unit (para.
8.01). Table 6B pr:vides data on hectares and production at full development of major crops. The
financial rates of return for individual farm models calculated by GDB for lending purposes frequently
exceeded IDA appraisal estimates and ranged from 20% to 70% (Part Im, Table 6C). The project
has had a positive effect in stimulating the private sector and also in strengthening Government
institutions and services supporting the private sector in farming and agroindustry. As such it played
a valuable and timely role in assisting the transition from a command economy to a free market.
6.02    Credit Administration. Actual IDA project co. was US$5.96 million exceeding appraisal
estimates by some 20% (Part III, Table 4) but, as the credit was denominated in SDRs which
appreciated in US dollar terms, these costs were accommodated within the IDA Credit amount with
US$40,600 (29,294 SDRs) being unused.  The cost increases occurred mainly because of the
purchase of additional expensive road maintenance equipment, a large increase in the number of
vehicles purchased primarily for the Extension Service, wage increases arising from the building boom
in 1985-1987 associated with tourism and because of the inclusion of a new Grenville jetty. Pihe
appraisal report assumed that the old jetty could be refurbished which proved to be impractical due
to its poor condition.



-5-
6.03    Progress Reports were on the whole satisfactory. Procurement guidelines were all met. The
Statements of Expenditure documentation and bills were filed in a manner which facilitated IDA
verification. A delay in supplying one audit report on time led to a single suspension of
disbursements, but this was soon rectified without prejudice to project implementation (disbursements
were suspended August 4, 1988 and resumed on August 15, 1988). All the covenants have been met
satisfactorily wiin the exception of Schedule 5. The MNIB for a while was not paying interest on the
proceeds of the Credit onlent to them. This shortcoming has now been corrected.
6.04    Employment Impact. The employment effect in the agricultural sector exceeded appraisal
expectations. As of June 21, 1991, 579 loans had been approved, generating employment for 1,366
people in farming and 47 in agroindustry. This may be compared with the appraisal estimate that
800-1,000 farmers, including some Grenadian repatriates, would benefit. It is estimated that the cost
of creating each job was of the order of US$3,300. Some 10,000 people in total, or about 30% of
the country's labor force, are believed to be employed in agriculture. Additional employment would
also have been generated by the p;oject in road maintenance, plant protection, and plant propagation
work and also especially in the construction of new facilities for the MNIB and MOA. Building a
new jetty at Grenville, rather than refurbishing the existing one, further increased employment
generation.
6.05    Credit-Crop Production. The appraisal mission made forecasts of the types of investment
likely to bt suppor d -.nder the GDB line of agricultural credit and the area under various crops
likely to be affected (Part m, Tables 5 and 6A).  However, their forecasts were described as
"indicative only," and allowed for flexibility in implementation. Investment in coconut and coffee
production was expected to account for about 15% of the additional loans made and 33% of the
agricultural area to be rehabilitated or new-planted under the project. In fact, practically no
developments have occurred in either crop because of market constraints. Inordinate delay in finding
a financial solution for rehabilitating the Tempe coconut oil factory (which was closed in 1988) plus
&,clining demand for coconut oil, which was being replaced by corn, soybean, and other vegetable
oils, gave little incentive for investment in coconut production during the period under review.
Similarly, delays in concluding an agreement for privatizing the coffee plant at Telescope led to a
postponement of coffee planting. This project is now proceeding, and some 16 hectares of Arabica
coffee will be established over the next few years by eight farmers. The planting materials are being
propagated at Mirabeau Station as envisaged under the project. It would appear that the appraisal
mission was overoptimistic in the consideration it gave these two products.
6.06    Progress in establishing other crops in the initial years of implementation was also slower
than envisaged under the project, indicating that establishing an agricultural credit line does not of
itself ensure its use. The appointment of an investment adviser to work with GDB in 1988 had a
marked catalytic effect in developing the use of credit for new crops and for crop rehabilitation.
(This was a modification suggested by IDA during implementation which proved extremely beneficial.)
Among the crops introduced were cantaloupes, musk melons, cauliflower, squash, Chinese cabbage,
hot peppers, and tomatoes on a year-round production basis. The area target for rainfed bananas
was reached but no investment occurred in irrigated banana production, partly because of uncertainty
concerning preferential treatment in the United Kingdom market after 1992. By June 1991 the
overall area target for crops, other than coconuts and coffee, had been reached (96%), and taling
into account loan commitments by GDB the area targets will be exceeded (124%) in the near future



-6 -
(see Part III, Table S, p. 2). Significant developments have occurred in the production of vegetables,
flowers, and tropical fruits. Extension, technical assistance, and the provision of improved planting
materials under the project contnbuted to this developmeLh. Some of the new products have found
export markets. More attention is still needed, however, in choosing the most appropriate varieties
for the export market and especially in the case of tropical fruits.
6.07    Credit-Farm  Equipment.  Substantial on-farm  investments occurred in agricultural
equipment and vehicles. This area was not highlighted at appraisal. Vehicles were purchased for a
variety of uses including the rapid and efficient transport of produce over hilly terrain to reduce
post-harvest losses. Also substantial investments were made in irrigation equipment (tanks, ponds,
pumps, pipes, and sprinklers) to increase agricultural and horticultural production during the dry
season (January-June). These investments are an encouraging sign of a private sector learning to
respond to market forces.
6.08    Credit-Agroindustry. A major success of the project was in stimulating agroindustry. By
June 1991, GDB had loan commitments to agroindustry of EC$ 0.5 million but further projects in
the pipeline indicated a total of EC$ 2.1 million in the near future (Part Ii, Table 5). These figures
may be compared with an appraisal estimate of EC$ 0.80 million. These loans include investments
in coffee processing and the production of syrups, jams and preserves, fruit juices, sauces, and
seasoning. These investments also generated feedback to the agricultural sector in several ways, for
example in encouraging the production of new crops such as hot peppers and in using up materials
that would otherwise be wasted. It is estimated that of the 10,000 tons of fruit, which in the past was
wasted and the value lost, some 4,000 tons is now being used by the new agroindustries established
under the project.
6.09    Owing to a slow start, only 68% of the credit line had been disbursed at closing date.
However, loan commitments at that date had reached 98%, and additional projects in the pipeline
indicated further investment opportunities ahead. Agricultural credit has been extended mainly to
the southern and eastern parts of the island to date. In 1991, GDB was assigned space in the new
extension center in Grenville, built umder the project. When GDB opens this new office it should
stimulate new agricultural investment in the northern and northwestern areas and Caricou.
6.10    Policy Impact. Discussions with the Government on agricultural sector policies for the
country, such as export taxes, have met with limited success. However, the project did succeed in
encouraging the Government to reduce subsidies on plant materials produced on Government
stations, thus making it possible for the private sector to compete in this activity. Some private
businesses are now entering the seed and plant propagation field. For this activity to develop further
in the private sector, GOG will need to eliminate totally subsidies to its own production, which it has
agreed to do. This is another useful step in nurturing the private sector. From a broader macro
view, the project was helpful in facilitating the transition of the economy from central control to a
free market approach.
6.11    Physical Facilities and Equipment for Upgrading Support Services. An extension in the
project completion date has allowed all the physical facilities planned under the project to be
completed. Some modifications were made during implementation, the major one being the
construction of a new pier at Grenville, slightly repositioned from the original pier.



- 7 -
6.12    Good modern facilities have now been established for: MNIB (a central cold storage plant,
packing house and rural collection centers); the Ministry of Communications and Works (soils and
road materials testing laboratory); and the municipal markets, extension, plant propagation, and plant
quarantine services. The Produce Chemist Laboratory MOA was also supplied with modem
equipment for agroprocessing research and development. The vehicles and equipment supplied under
the project have enabled the feeder road maintenance program to exceed expectations by 300%. The
supply of vehicles to MOA has increased extension visits to farms by 30%. The provision of vehicles
and equipment for plant propagation, plant protection and tree pruning has had a perceptible impact
on crop spraying, tree culture and the introduction of new crops and new varieties of vegetables and
fruits. The Grenada Banana Cooperative Society and GDB also benefitted from the supply of
vehicles and computers under the project. Overall, the physical targets have been fully met, including
those which were revised upwards since appraisal. Some of the benefits are already apparent. The
benefits arising from the MNIB cold storage and packing facilities and the increase in exports arising
from the new jetty in Grenville will be measurable only later.
6.13    Trainini. External training was a mix of university courses, other tertiary level training,
short strategic courses of relevance to the candidates chosen, and observation tours (Part m, Table
6D, p. 3). The main purpose was to upgrade the lower echelons of MOA staff and to keep graduate
staff abreast of developments in their fields. Strategic courses chosen included postharvest handling
of crops, vegetable production, plant quarantine/protection, and information technology. A number
of conferences and workshops were also attended. The training activity has helped in particular in
raising the level of technical competence of the extension service. Local training focused mainly on
in-service training and local workshops. Farmers and Government agricultural officers were the major
beneficiaries of these programs. A computer literacy program throughout the MOA was also
undertaken and is claimed to have been highly successful.
6.14    Studies. A number of studies were conducted under the project (Part m, Table 6D, p.1).
The recommendations of those conducted on the MNIB and GBCS have mostly been implemented
and had a positive effect on the focus and efficiency of these two organizations. The road
maintenance system proposed by a study has also been adopted by the Feeder Roads Unit of MOA
and partly by the MCW, and again has raised efficiency. The two studies identified in the appraisal
report relating to coconuts and sugar were undertaken but unfortunately the coconut interests did
not utilize the findings of the Tempe coconut oil factory study and the sugar factory is only now
holding discussions with the GDB with a view to implementing the findings of that study. The
Grenville Harbour Study set the stage for the implementation of the Grenville jetty construction.
It also provided options for future development of the port area. Present indications are that the
new jetty will lead to a substantial increase in inter-island trade. Generally the studies produced
under the project provide a useful base for better-informed decisions in several areas of likely
follow-up to this project.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.01    The project has established an infrastructure and a technical and psychological base to serve
as a springboard for growth in the private sector of agriculture and agroindustry. To build on this
base, however, requires that the GOG adopt a sector strategy and policy framework which provides
the right environment for the private sector to flourish--e.g., improve access to credit for model farms



- 8 -
through new titling and leasing arrangements; reduce duties and subsidies and Government physical
control of imports; improve control of praedial larceny and stray animals which deter the introduction
of new high-value crops; contint-e to strengthen and upgrade the quality and widen the geographic
dispersal of agricultural support services. The Investment Adviser--who left GDB in June 1991-
-played a key role in stimulating new developments and in helping to bringing together the technical
and financial resources needed. GDB and MOA should consider hiring a replacement. The private
sector on its part will need to be sensitive to changes in the local market including the tourist trade,
international export prospects, and inter-island trade. MNIB has an important role to play in this
respect.
7.02    As uroan settlement in Grenada is rapidly expanding and taking up good land, agriculture
is being pushed onto the steeper slopes where the need for vigilance in soil conservation increases
markedly. GOG extension and technical services received technical assistance and training in
conservation practices under the project. There may well be a need for more training and financial
upport for this activity in the near future.
8.     Bank and Borrower Performance
&01    Bank. The political upheavals in Grenada made the identification and preparation of this
project particularly difficult both for FAO/CP and IDA. The project as it evolved was particularly
responsive to the emerging needs of the country. Because of the circumstances under which it was
prepared, not surprisingly the economic and political policy frameworks were not well defined, nor
were the organizational linkages for coordination of the various agencies benefitting under the
project. In hindsight it will be seen that too much dependence was placed on the Project
Management Board (PMB) to resolve organizational difficulties. IDA staff probably did not fully
comprehend the magnitude of the changes required in the philosophical and psychological attitudes
of Government staff or the inherent ;eticence of many to take decisions and responsibility when
emerging from a centrally planned economy. Officials with decision-making experience were limited
in number and overworked. The PMB proposed by the appraisal mission was not a satisfactory
solution to these difficulties. IDA staff did not fully face up to the shortcomings of the PMB until
mid-1988 when a supervision mission brought matters to a head and insisted that the Minister of
Agriculture personally assume more responsibility in ensuring that the project could be effectively
executed. This resulted in a marked improvement in project execution. IDA staff should probably
have insisted earlier on such a change. Throughout project implementation, supervision missions
encouraged, without success, the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) unit to assist
the PMB in its work In retrospect, the Bank should have pressed even harder to get the M&E unit
set up. Certainly, with the creation of an effective M&E unit, reliable data would have been available
for an economic assessment at project closing.
8.02    The Borrower felt that there were too many changes of IDA personnel undertakdng
supervision in the early stages of project implementation and that greater continuity would have led
to a greater understanding of the issues more rapidly. Greater continuity of personnel was achieved
in the latter part of the project's life.



v9-
8.03    The Borrower was satisfied witb iDA's promptness in disbursing Credit funds once an
understanding was reached on IDA procedures. IDA showed flexibility in allocation of funds where
requests for modification were consistent with the broad objectives of the project.
8.04    The Borrower believes IDA showed understanding and flexibility during implementation and
that a good and constructive relationship was established between IDA and Grenadian Government
institutions.
8.05    Borrower. The Project Management Unit had to function under four different ministers
of agriculture, some of whom were grossly overextended in having to handle other departments as
well as agriculture, e.g., one minister had to deal with agriculture, tourism, legal affairs and external
affairs. This lack of continuity, overwork, and sometimes lack of commitment adversely affected
project implementation in the early phases. Low morale in Government service in the early phase
was also a compounding factor. Coordination bdtween the various Government departments and
agencies GDB, MNIB, GBCS, MOCW, and MOA was weak in the early phases and there was little
appreciation of the role of the project as an engine to foster agricultural development through the
private sector. Rather, several agencies perceived the project merely as a source of funds for their
discrete activities. From about the midpoint onward, commitment to the overall purpose of the
project improved markedly with strong executive support from the Minister of Agriculture and key
appointments made in MOA and GDB. A system of discussions has now been established, for
example, between MOA, other technical agencies, MNIB, and GDB for the execution of
export-related subprojects.
806    The performance of the PMB was abysmaL It failed to convene regularly or give executive
power to the PMU or the agencies concerned to carry out implementation activities. Although it was
never disbanded during the project's life, it was frequently bypassed to get things done and was
essentiaLly defunct in the later stages of the project. IDA and the Borrower probably share some
blame for this failure, and a major question remains whether PMB should ever have been established.
8.07    The Project Management Unit (PMU) performed reasonably well in the circumstances in
which it found itsel£ It played a strong part latterly in ensuring that the construction program was
completed. It is not clear whether it could have played a more active role in the early stages in
conveying to the implementing agencies the overall strategy and purpose of the project and in
motivating greater coordination and cooperation on their parts. This would have compensated for
the weakness in project design relating to executive powers. With a rapid turnover of ministers, and
having to establish a new modus operandi with each change this would have been difficult in any case.
8.08    The Borrower's failure to establish an effective monitoring and evaluation unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture during the implementation phase of the project handicapped the PMB and
the PMU in carrying out their respective roles. It also would have served to highlight how the
in-action in decision-making at the PMB was delaying implementation. A functioning evaluation unit
would also have provided a baseline against which to measure project impact.
8.09    Lessons. The following lessons may be derived from this project:
(i) major changes in a country's political and economic framework exert considerable strain on
Government institutions and public service personnel which can't help but affect project



- 10-
implementation; (ii) where investment is very dependent on the outcome of consultant studies and
the willingness of private investors to adopt such proposals, it is unrealistic to give specific targets for
their outcome, e.g., investments in processing facilities for coconut, sugar, and coffee; (iii) use of an
ad hoc management board drawn from a number of ministries and agencies to coordinate and exercise
executive power for project implementation is fraught with difficulties and should be avoided if
possible; (iv) establishment and staffing of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would have benefitted
the project greatly. It probably should have been insisted upon as a condition of effectiveness; and
(v) notwithstanding, the difficulties and the temptation to postpone the project in the political
circumstances in which it was conceived, it probably served effectively in facilitating the transition
from a centrally controlled economy to a free market form of economic activity. IDA and the
Borrower showed good judgment in proceeding resolutely with the project, despite the difficulties,
because of its relevance at a crucial moment in the economic life of the country.
9.      Project Relationships
9.01    Relations between IDA and the Borrower have been cordial throughout the project's life,
largely as a result of the Project Coordinator's efforts. The dialogue envisaged between GOG and
IDA on agricultural policy issues never developed to any substantial extent. Progress was made
however in having subsidies reduced on planting materials emanatir.g from Government stations and
thus giving a chance for the private sector to compete. A delay in supplying an Audit on time led
to a single suspension of disbursements, but this was soon rectified without prejudice to project
implementation. Relations between IDA, Borrower, GDB, and CDB were amicable, professional,
and cooperative throughout.
10.    Consulting Services
10.01   The project employed 192 man-months of consultant services, which exceeded appraisal
estimates by 55% (Part m, Table 5, p. 2). The Bank and GOG exercised flexibility in the use of
consultants, foregoing the services of a project management specialist but adding the services of
vegetable, flower, and investment specialists who were considered more appropriate to the country's
needs. These modifications proved to be highly effective and led to developments in floral culture,
vegetable production, and a marked acceleration in investment and agroindustry development. The
expansion in the field activities of extension workers is partly attributable to the technical input of
the extension specialist as well as the provision of vehicles and training of local staff. During one
IDA supervision some question was raised about the cost-effectiveness of the extension specialist,
indicating that he should have beer. -more active in nurturing farmers' meetings. There was also some
criticism of this specialist because the extension service had not been reorganized. There is a need
to integrate the extension services of MOA with those of the commodity groups such as banana and
cocoa. The extension specialist however should not be held responsible for the failure of GOG to
follow-up on his recommendations.
10.02   The investment advisor was particularly successful in stimulating and expanding lending in
agriculture and agroindustry. He organized seminars for farmers and potential agroindustry investors
on the preparation of bankable projects and advised individual GDB clients. He also played a
significant role in getting MNIB management to implement the organizational proposals and to focus
more effectively on its objectives. The inputs by the feeder roads engineer and soils engineer were



- 11 -
effective in counterpart training, and the final report on a system for .oad maintenance was well
received--but only partially adopted to date. A consensus has yet to be reached before the system
is adopted nationally. The education specialist during his four months of work undertook a good
review of the agricultural education system and developed a new curriculum. Largely because of
GOG policy indecision, not all of his recommendations have yet been applied, although they are
accepted in principle as desirable.
11.    Project Documentation
11.01   The appraisal report and credit documents were clear. The macro objectives of the project
could perhaps have been spelled out more explicitly in the appraisal report, which would have given
the PMU and the implementing agencies a policy framework within which to operate. In light of the
prevailing political uncertainties this was probably not feasible at that time. Supervision reports
generally addressed the key issues. The numerous studies financed under the project provide a
wealth of information for continued development in the agricultural sector.



- 12 -
Part II: PROJECr REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECIIVE
1.     BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.01    In 1985 the Borrower initiated the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Crop Diversification
(ARCD) Project (IDA 1558 GRD) with high expectations that it would favourably impact on the
agricultural sector. The employment in early 1986 of an experienced Project Co-ordinator
strengthened that expectation and confidence. The Borrower accorded utmost importance to the
project and proved its political commitment both by public endorsement, and by meeting its financial
obligations in a timely and adequate fashion. The Borrower also complied with all the Covenants and
Other Conditions of the Loan Agreement.
1.02    The project was a complex and demanding one. This attribute was intensified by the
disturbed social and political relations of the period following 1983 and the installation of a new
Government. That situation led to several factors which affected the pace of project implementation
especially up to 1988, e. g., indecision by personnel, lack of information, ministerial changes,
unpreparedness to take actions required for effective participation in the project, job uncertainty and
low morale in the Public Service.
1.03    Some institutional mechanisms proved difficult to establish. In practice the Borrower utilised
other means to meet the intended objectives. First, personnel and organisational limitations severely
limited the ability of the MOA Planning Unit to provide full monitoring and evaluation services to
the project and agricultural sector. Second, the Project Board of Management (PBM) never really
operated as an effective project coordinating and policy guidance unit. The members (all
beneficiaries) were drawn from disparate agencies. Though their activities were related, they had not
previously been brought together for any purpose, and did not bring an agricultural policy or
inter-agency collaborative viewpoint to bear on the project. Moreover, there was no perception of
the development path of the sector that could act as a point of reference. Especially after Year HI,
the unavailability of the Chairman prevented frequent convening of meetings. A substitute
arrangement could not overcome the other problems mentioned.
1.04    Without a working PBM, project work was co-ordinated through the more effective Project
Management Unit (PMU). The PMU comprised the operational managers, and worked with
Irplementation Teams in drawing up and executing plans. In addition, the Project Co-ordinator
established direct links to the Minister of Agriculture. This approach simplified the integration of the
project into the Ministry of Agriculture system. The operational managers also utilised the project
to introduce innovation at agency and at farm level, and to guide the development of policy especially
at the technical leveL
1.05    Strong operational management and the co-ordinating factor of the PMU  and
Implementation Teams raise a question whether the PBM, envisaged as a project management
instrument, was required for this project. The experience suggests that what was lacking was a
ministerial advisory body covering the whole sector. Such a body could have comprised persons with



- 13 -
a general sector planning and agricultural development outlook. The recommendation of an
Agricultural Development Board is under consideration.
1.06    The Borrower sought to meet most of the recommendations arising out of Sup_.rvision
Reports. Some were more successfully dealt with than others. For example:
(a) Discussions on the nwerger of the Farm and Feeder Project (of MCW) and the Farm
Roads (MOA) havc not proceeded primarily because sufficient assurance could not be
given that the needs of agriculture could be speedily met.
(b) Concerning planting material services, the Borrower was able to reduce the
Government subsidy on vegetables planting material; in fact, farmers are now providing
most of the planting materials for fine vegetables. The planting material situation for
other crops is under review.
(c) .ne issue of the merger of the Extension Services of MOA and the Commodity Boards
is also under current review.
1.07    The project has generally met its objectives, and in some instances, exceeded expectations.
Seventy percent of the credit target was disbursed; 108% was committed. Loan commitments to agro-
industry were twice that targeted in the Appraisal Report. Excluding irrigated bananas, coconuts and
coffee (zero percent), crop acreage achieved ranged from 70 to 400 percent of target; these will
increase as GDB realises its commitments to pipeline projects in the near future. Feeder road
maintenance exceeded targets, and ali targets for physical activities were met, updated or exceeded.
New infrastructure include: three Extension Offices, a laboratory, and a jetty. Three municipal
markets were substantially refurbished. Employment generation through on farm investments and
infrastructural works exceeded target by an estimated 40 percent.
1.08    Some factors outside the control of the Project influenced its performance, as for example,
with respect to Coconuts and Coffee. The Borrower, however, applauds the efforts of the project to
sustain interest in copra and coffee production through organising sales to the regional market, and
helping with the formation of a new company (coconuts); and through the introduction of new coffee
varieties. The Borrower further recognises that unresolved problems restricted farmers under the
Model Farms Programme from benefitting more fully from the ARCDP. That programme is currently
being reviewed by the Borrower.
1.09    The project has positively contnbuted to the growth of economic activities in the sector, to
human resource development, to improvement in the physical and social environment, to institutional
strengthening, and to the adoption of new technology. While the major gains would be evident after
project end, the non-traditional sub-sector of agriculture already reveals several benefits from the
project.
(a) The credit programme has covered a broad focus of crops and farm equipment. The
programme has also had an impact on the financing of agro-industrial enterprises other
than those identified in the project document.



- 14 -
(b) New sugarcane varieties with high juice content have been introduced for the
manufacture of rum. Farmers who have adopted recommended practices have raised
their average production from fifteen to thirty tons per acre. The provision of two new
tractors has also resulted in the expansion of sugarcane acreage.
(c) Several new vegetable crops were introduced to farmers resulting in new products for
the market (including the hospitality trades' and in marked extension of the production
season for an existing crop: tomato. Some key farmers are using irrigation technology.
Farmers have established eight private vegetable seedling nurseries with a capacity of
100,000 plants per month for sale of plants to other producers. Under combined
programmes including MOA, GDB, MNIB, and agencies such as CARDI and HCA
farmers have also engaged in new export projects notably in Papaw, Hot Peppers and
Ginger.
(d) The project has also introduced the commercial growing and export marketing of
Flowers. There are now some twenty farmers and sixteen acres under cultivation.
These farmers have shown great interest in expanding and diversifying productio.
(e) An annual spraying programme for fruit trees contributed to increased quantities of
production and marketable fruit. This programme also included initial efforts to
improve the current stock of trees through pruning and topping of trees. Farmers now
exhibit a sense of value towards their fruit tree and are willing to execute
recommended cultivation measures. The project has initiated a pilot with farmers to
establish small orchards.
1.10    Through its infrastructural and institutional strengthening components, the project has
increased farmer confidence and the work of agencies supporting the farmer and agro-industry.
Significant results include:
(a) A new farmer confidence in the production of "non-traditionals" for local consumption
and exports, derived from in-field training, technology transfer, credit and market
availab cty.
(b) A highly improved and confident Ministry of Agriculture. MOA staff have completed
diploma and university degree training, and specialised short courses in key areas such
as Plant Quarantine and Vegetables production. The project also sustained the Annual
In-Service Extension Training Programme of MOA, making it more responsive to the
needs of the sector. A new building has been provided to the Communications Unit
and the Pest Management Unit of the MOA, removing past space restrictions. Their
equipment base, now including a laboratory and audio-visual media, has been
substantially upgraded. These Units will play vital roles in staff and farmer education
through audio-visual means. The Laboratory is already resulting in better pest and
disease diagnosis rnd management. The Ministry's plant propagation ability to meet an
increasing demand for tree crop planting material has also enhanced. Equipment
provided to the Produce Chemist Laboratory (MOA), will significantly better its
competence in agro-industrial R&D.



- 15 -
(c) A pro-active credit programme resulting from the work of a key consultant at the
Grenada Development Bank, and allocation of office space to the Bank at the Eastem
Extension District. The Borrower feels that the latter action will not only increase the
availability of credit, but also save the farmer time and costs in accessing required
services.
(d) Increased dynamism in local and export marketing. The MNIB has diversified its
external markets, ar.d new private exporters have entered the field. The project was
often a facilitator for Airline-Exporter exchanges on solving volume and shipping
problems.
(e) Larger purchases of farmers produce which are reflected in a five-fold increase in
exports by the MNIB. Cool and cold storage facilities established for the MNIB will
greatly enhance its ability to handle, s.ore and export produce. It is noteworthy that the
MNIB has been able to meet from its own resources the associated twenty percent
share of financing on infrastructure.
(f) Further marketing support through the refurbishing of three parish municipal markets,
and the construction of a new, larger jetty at Grenville Harbour. This jetty will boost
employment and intra-regional trade, and will support other developments such as an
Industrial Site and a Quarry nearby. The jetty also provides a landing stage for
fishermen's catches, a facility not previous.g available.
(g) A refurbished and equipped Laboratory which advances the MCW capability for local
road-materials testing.
(h) Several studies which provide a valuable information base for planning follow-up
projects.
1.11    The Borrower was continuously sensitive to evolving needs, not anticipated at project
appraisal. These arose in the following areas: consultancy and credit infrastructure for GDB; small
farmer services; plant propagation; plant protection, export marketing facilities; fruit processing
research equipment; and additional vehicles for the Farm Roads programme and the Extension
Service.
1.12    The Borrower appreciates that the project has accomplished much under this Loan
Agreement. Apart from the professional and physical benefits derived from participating in a project
of this nature, certain key lessons have been learnt. Among them are:
(a) The need to ensure the preparation by all parties for their roles in the project. This
will make for sounder decisions by all concerned, a greater willingness to act on the
institutional and fnancial ramifications of the project, and more efficient execution. In
this regard, it might have been more prudent from both a design and investment point
of view to conduct key decision studies such as the Rehabilitation of Tempe Factory
(coconuts), and of the Grenada Sugar Factory before Appraisal su that the possibilities
could become clearer at that stage. Neither company took advantage of the studies



- 16 -
conducted during the project; instead the coconut factory was closed by its private
owners.
(b) Diverse institutions were responsible for managing or supporting various aspects of the
project (MOA, MNIB, MCW, GDB, Local Government). All normally work
independently of each other under different authority structures. This level of
decentralisation places a premium on effective co-ordination to achieve consistency and
direction. This could well be a critical factor in the sustainability of the net benefits of
the project. Systems for co-operation established under the projecr must be
strengthened.
(c) All the agencies involved in the project revealed serious deficiencies in strategic, long
term, or even short term organisational or activity planning. Planning and project
design expertise is weak. This factor led to delayed decisions and inhibited
implementation of certain project awtivities. The many projects and plans prepared by
the Investment Specialist suggest the positive impact that persons with those skills can
have on the institutions involved.
1.13    The Borrower is acutely aware of the need to build on the technological, psychulogical and
infrastructural base established by the project in order to encourage further private investment in
production and agro-processing. The project has pointed to several sectoral issues (e.g., credit, land
use and distribution, praedial larceny, sectoral linkages, the role of the State, and community
involvement), and to influence positive directions taken individually in Extension, development of
small orchards, plant propagation and distribution, and marketing. The project has further highlighted
the need for collaborative mechanisms to link these efforts. The project has also served to focus on
farmer conceptions on commercialising crops earlier considered as "subsistence."
1.14    The Borrower is committed to sustaining the net benefits of the project, and has already
initiated preliminary work towards the preparation of an Agricultural Sector Plan. The major
objectives will be to establish policy guidelines and to build on the foundation established by the
ARCD Project. The Borrower wishes to continue with a follow-up project which will incorporate the
issues identified above, but will need external support in this regard.
2. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE/PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
2.01    The Bank's performance on the project related to its supervision, disbursements, and other
general advice on the project. Supervision was regular, and thorough. Until the later part of the
project supervision was conducted by different personnel. This was not to the detriment of this
project, but it wairants a general comment. While a different view is usually healthy (and may be
organisationally determined), personnel consistency helps to give a root understanding of the issues
and nuances of particular problems. The latter also may be obtained by moving more towards a
problem-solution discussion type of supervision and away from the check-list approach. This probably
would lead to more bank staff-country group interaction, and a more holistic understanding than that
gained irom interaction with individual agencies and project co-ordinators. Understandably, this has
supervision staff time implications.



- 17 -
2.02    Disbursements were quite prompt. Difficulties in providing the Audi, on time led to a single
suspension of disbursements, but this was rectified without prejudice to the flow of the projct.
Where the situation threatened to arise, adequate notice to the Bank resulted in suitable time
extensions for submission. Project extensions beyond 1990 allowed the completion of ongoing
infrastructural work.
2.03    The reliance of the Bank and Borrower on Supervision Reports and PCRs for lessons must
obviously serve its purpose. There is, however, an additional way in which all parties could further
benefit. The Borrower recommends that the Bank consider bringing together project managers/co-
ordinators periodically to review and exchange experiences and to identify the lessons of these
experiences. This probably would be quite cost effective, lead to greater interaction and
understanding of issues, and could be cost factored into the individual loans.
2.04    The key aspect of the Bank's performance has been its flexibility. This was particularly
evident in the approval of additional justified activities, particularly to support prior investments.
These included: the provision of an Investment Specialist to the GDB and MNIB; the acquisition of
two tractors for ploughing of small farms in support of a heightened farmer interest in sugarcane and
vegetable production; the refurbishing of Ashenden Propagation Station to support the main Station
in the supply of planting material; the erection of a new jetty at Grenville; the provision of equipment
and office space to the Grenada Development Bank at the Eastern Extension District Building; the
Fruit Tree Spraying Programme; a Bulldozer for the Farm Roads Programme of MOA, and critical
equipment to the Produce Chemist Laboratory for R&D and training in fruit processing. This was
a new type project for Grenada and required understanding, flexibility and adjustments. This
approach resulted in very constructive relations thro-aghout the project.
3. BORROWER RELATIONSHIP WITH CO-FINANCIERS
3.01    The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) as a co-financier, administered the credit
component of the project. The funds provided were from a Global Line of Credit accessed by other
sectors besides agriculture. This was several times replenished by the CDB, thus the supply of credit
funds never was a problem to the flow of the project. It is understood that CDB intends to continue
the existing Line of Credit to the GDB.
3.02    Project Management had a somewhat tenuous relationship with both the CDB and the
GDB, because of the more direct GDB-CDB relationship enshrined in the project document.
Lending conditions were mainly determined by conditions established between CDB and GDB. The
experience has revealed a divergence between a project which might be focussing on crop groups and
locations with growth potential, and lending based on the major criteria utilised by the Bank. The
congruence of the two approaches presume that most clientele in the crop group or location can pass
the test, or that some who do will have a major in,?act on the crop or the area. This is not always
the case. It is the opinion of project management that the overall impact of the credit components
of ARCD-type projects can be greater if more closely integrated into the project. Moreover, a follow-
up project might wish to pay close attention to crop specific or activity specific (mixed orchard crops)
programme lending.



- 18 -
3.03    Even with this particular point of departure, relations with the CDB and GDB were very
good. The views of the project on the dynamics of the agricultural sector were frequently sought by
CDB missions. The CDB was also quite helpful in responding to project requests for information. Its
Export Support Project collaborated with the project on a very useful workshop on floriculture in
Grenada; and in the planning of an observation tour to Jamaica by key flower growers.



- 19 -
Part HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related IDA Credits
There have been no previous IDA credits for agricultural activities in Grenada.



- 20 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date        Date         Date
Item        Planned      Revised      Actual
Identification                              03/83
Preparation FAQ/CP                          05/83
IDA Appraisal                               05/84
Credit Negotiations                         02/85
Board Approval                              03/14/85
Credit Signature                            06/20/85
Credit Effectiveness  07/85                 09/18/85
Credit Closing     12/31/90    06/31/91     12/31/91
Project Completion  06/30/91                12/31/91
Issues Raised During Project Cycle
Identification/PreDaration
- The Government originally in power asked the Bank to prepare and finance an area specific
development project in which the public sector would play a dominant part.
- FAO Cooperative Program and IDA advocated a nationwide "open-ended" credit-oriented
project in which private farmers would play the dominant part in agricultural development
assisted by Government support services.
- Following the overthrow of Government in October 1983 and the gradual emergence of
democratically elected Government favoring a free market economic system changes proposed
in project concept became feasible.
- Political instability during project preparation made policy discussions extremely difficult.
Appraisal
- Effective interest charged on agricultural loans were negative.
- As the economic climate for investment in agriculture had been negative for several years the
demand for agricultural credit had been low.
- As a result of the complexity of the project, the diversity of its components and shortage of
qualified staff in several Government agencies, some concern was expressed that the Project



- 21 -
Management Unit being proposed by the appraisal mission would be too small to manage the
project.
- Size and reliability of agricultural export markets.
- In view of the Government's weak financial position, concern was expressed about the
contribution to counterpart funding which the Government could be reasonably asked to
make.
Implementation
- Government failed to establish an effective Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to assist in
project management and final evaluation.
- In view of complexity of project and the number of agencies involved, a Project Management
Board was established to assist in reaching executive decision necessary for project
implementation. The Board never worked effectively in practice.
Credit Closing
The credit closing date was changed from December 31, 1990 to March 31, 1991 then to June
30, 1991 to allow for the complet:on of infrastructure works.



22 -
Table 3: Disbursements
(USS millions)
Foscal Year (FY) Y
Items        1986  1987  1988  1989   1990  1991  1992
Appraisal Estimate   0.8   1.8   3.0   4.3    5.0   -
Actual              0.5   1.6   2.5   2.8   3.5   4.7   6.0
Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimate  63%   89%   83%   65%   70%   94%   120%o
Date of Final Disbursement: January 14, 1992
Cancelled at Closing:     SDRs 29,294.45
.1 Bank FY (July I to June 30)
Equivalent to SDRs 4.99 million.



- 23 -
Table 4A. Project Costs 1
(US$S000)
Appraisal           Actual            Actual as 2
Items                       Estimate              as              of Appraisal
US$ 2/           12/31/91             Estimate
1.  On-farm and Agricultural *           2,494              2,479                 992
Investments
(Part A - CDB Agricultural Credit)
2.  Civil Works                            917              1,552                169Z
MOA (Part B(1),(2),(3) and (4)
MNIB (Part B(S)
3. Maintenance                             459                452                 98Z
MOCW (Part B(7((b)
4* Incremental Operating Costs                                798
5.  Vehicles and Equipment (Part B)    1,218                2,164                1782
6.  Consultants' Services                1,483              1,751                118Z
end Training
(Parts C, D and E)
7.  Contingencies                        1,340                -
8. Local Admin. Costs                      -                  356
Total                               7,911              9,552                121%
1/ Exchange rate US$1 - EC$ 2.70 for local curroncy.
2/ Exchange rate at the time of appraisal 1 SDR - US$1.
* Credit Component - commitments ceased June 30, 1991.



Table 4.B: Project Fmancing
(US$'000)
Appraisal  .1*ate                                            Atual                                Actual as I
Items                        -o  Appraisal
are"   CmU        go         M  11S  Total    Panown    C          GM      KM    m         TOtW          tiatsa
1. OR-Orm aa  &XrIcultursl                 594    1.00                         2.494         620   1,355                             2,470                 on
.tue.
(Part A - Cm 4triSultural Credit)
2. Ci werks                                 '                 203       714       ?17                          2 26   1.256    43   1.55                 1sn
(Part 5lC1).2).(S) sa  (4)
on  (Part *StO
3.   altsua                                 .                            o S                  -                                                            3 t  4S2  on
mm (Part e(7C(b)
4.  Zacreseual Operatin  Cost                              -                                  -                 03     49S             79
S. Veiles sad Iqipen                        *                         1.2*8    1.210          -24   2.140                       9  *   A"                 1705
*. cem"twou  Serices                                           Is    1.40n    1.463           -                 31   1.720           1.7SU                 1n
sad TroiaIu
(Part. C. a asadw
7. cse^tug e                                                   0      1.260    1.340          .        -        .       .5
a.  zracl                                   .         .       .            .      .           .u .s UX
Loal Admin.Cs
Total                                  94    1.500       417    5.0o    7.911           610   1.U59   1,109   5.944    2a   .3.52                    12t
11 L16hsags rats at thk t-.= of appraisl I1S * 051.
1 C useuts at CU* seo  closief 051*011.



- 25-
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I     Agricultural Credit       1                      1                   1            1
I         (EC$S000)             I   Disbursemeut       I                   1            1            I
I                               I  Expected at         I   Total including! (a) as    I (b) as    I
I     Actual &a of 06/30/91   I    Completion          I   pipeline        I percent ofl percent ofl
I        Item        I       (a)      I      (b)      I       cc)            I                         (d)  !    Cc)    1    (c)    I
I Coccincuts  I Diabursementsl                         t                   t            t            I
I                    I -------------I ------------      ----EC$OO 2------------------------I          2      I     2      1
.fl.a tfluflfllfl_SflU.ua......fliS SSU.nn..nsnnsu.nnfluanaflu
I                    I               I                I                     I                    I            I            I
I Bananas-Rainfed   i            889 1           587 I             1,170    1 1                  1        7621         SOI
1 Bananas-Imported  I                 I               1              983    1                    I a        01         OI
ISugar-Replanted   I                 I                1              276    1 1                  1          021         021
I Sugar-Planted      I           803 1           235 t               207    t 3                  t       3882!        11421
I Coconuts-Rehab                     I                1              347    1 3           2,654 1           02!         02!
I Coconuts-New       t                                a              312    t 3                  1          02!         021
ICoffee              t               I                1              138    11                   1          02!         021
iTropical Fruit    1             226 1           225 I               776    1 1                  t        292!         2921
i Vegetables         1           199 t           146 t                60    a1                   t       33221        24321
IFlowers             1           274 1            92 1               180    I                    I 1     1522!         5121
IAgro-ludustry       I           531 1           216 1               700 a  1             2,099 1         7621         3121
I Farm Equipment    I          1,829 1         1,741 1                      1             2,163 I        ERB I        ERR I
IMiscellaneous       I           270 I           268 1                      1                    1            1            1
TOTAL           5,021           3,510               5,149                   6,916           982         6821
*CDB Loan wae for US$1.9m equivalent to ECS 5.13.. US$1.6m (equivalent EC$ 4.32m) va  for agriculture and US$0.296m
(equivalent EC$0.800B) was for agroindustry. To adjust the SBAR estiates of expected disburealc to the CDB loan
estimates over EC$ 100,000 needed to be pared from the SAR eatimtes.  For ease of calculation agrolnuustry has
been reduced by EC$ 100,000.



-26-
Table SB: Consultants
Actual as of  Expected at   (a) as percent
06/30/91      project       of (b)
*                                         completion
s                              ~~~~~~~~~~~(SAR)s
s Consultants (mm) - Total          192           124             155%  s
s Vegetable Specialist               30             0               -
s Proj. Mgmt Specialist               0            24               0%  :
s Extension Specialist               24            24             100%  :
s Field Agronomist                   24            24             100%  s
3 Ag. Ed Specialist                   4             4             100%  s
* Marketing Specialist               30            24             125%  :
e Mgmt Consultant                    14            12             117%  :
s Feeder Road Engineer                9             9             100%  :
: Soil Engineer                       3             3             100% :
: Flower Specialist                  24             0               -
- Investment Specialist              30             0               -
----------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 



- 27 -
Table 50: Construction. Vehicles & Eqiuipment
(a)                  (b)                   (a)
Actuais an          Zpecteod at          CA) *c percent
of 06130191       Project Complotion          of (b)
Agriculture Etenion Service
Reabilitatiou of Field Officeo                               0                       3                  0X
CJ,.Atructioo of ield Office                                 3                       I                3002
Construction of Information
Center                                                       I                       I                1002
Vehicles                                                    52                      32                1632
Plat Propagation Unit
Conetruction of Storage Sbhd 11                              I                       1                100X
PropagtiotLn Station (RChab) CAsbhnden)                I                       -                   _
Vehicles                                                     3                       2                150S
Truck                                                        2                       1                2002
Nydraulic Lift                                               I                       1                100Z
Seedling Conter                                              2                       1                200S
Plant Protection Plan
Construction Quauratinte Bldg                                I                       1                1002
Vehicles                                                     I                       1                1002
Marketing Infrotructure
Isfurnisbment of Municipal Markets                           3                       2                1502
Improvements of Harbor                                       1                       1                100X
Marketing System
Construction of Central Cold jtore CUrl)                     1                       1                1002
Vehdcles (mm)                                                5                       4                1252
Collection Centers                                           0                       2                  02
banana Msrektin
Trailer Unts                                                 2                       2                1002
Care                                                         1                       1                1002
Forklifts                                                    4                       4                1002
Mit Blowers                                                 10                      10                1002
Couweyors                                                    S                       5                1002
Microcomputcr                                                1                       1                1002
feeder Road maintenance
Truck  (5ST)                                                 5                       S                100S
Cars                                                         4                       4                1002
Motorgrader                                                  I                       1                 100S
Loader                                                       I                       1                100S
Rollers                                                      3                       3                100l
Compactors                                                   2                       2                1002
Dumper,                                                      6                       4                150S
Rad Iuprowed (miles)                                       277                     100                277n
Grenule Jetty
Refurbisbed                                                  0                       1                  0S
no                                                           1                       0                  _
It Mirsbeau Station



- 28 -
Table 6: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits - Crop Targets and Achievement
(Hectares)
................... ............. ---............... .                                    ....        ........  ,              -
as                      AR=IMI AACD/HOA   I      I
I Crops                      I   Target    I ..--------------------__-1              data      I   Total  I (4) as  2    Total  2 (6) as    I
I     Area    I Comitunts I Ditburecauts I Adjustments all   (2+3)  1 of Targeti   (1+3)  I of Targetl
I                            I               I      (1)      1      (2)       1       (3)       I    (4)   1    (5)   1    (6)   1                1
I                            I     has       I     has       I      bas       I       bas       I    has   I       2    I    bes  I         2    I
--------------------------__------------_______.. ......2I...............I--------------- I..........I..........I----------I.......... ___I
I Bananas-Rainfed            t          300 t           316 1             208 1            78.0 1       286 1         95S2     394.0 1       13121
I 8sana-Irrtg               I          100 I             01                01              0.0 I          021         OI        0.0 I          02
I Sugar-Rebab                1          160 1             0 1               0 1           145.0 1       145 1         9122     145.0 1        9122
I Sugar-How                  I          120 1           143 1              41 I            46.0 1         87 1        73ZI    169.0 1        158S2
ICoconut-Rabab               1          260 1             01                01              0.0 I          021         OI        0.02 I         02
ICocomt-N.v                  I          140 1             01                01              0.0 I          021         OI        0.0 1          O0I
ICoffee                      I           16 2             01                01              1.5 1       1.5 1          922       1.5 1          922
I Tropical Fruito            I          144 1            77 1              77 1           164.0 1       241 1        16722    241.0 1        1672l
I Tropical Vsget.bles        I           10 I            51 I              38 1             0.0 1        38 1        3602I      51.0 I       51022
I Plantslloers               1            21              9 1               3 I             5.3 1       8.3 1        41522      14.3 1       71522
2I                                    -             -                  2 I----------2 I............1 _ ._1 ____________   I.......... __. I---------- I.....__..1...._.___I..1...._____ I
I           TOTAL            1         1252 1           596 1             367 1          *39.8 1    606.8 1           6421   1035.8 1         8321
I Total (zacludfn            I               I               I                I                  I           2           I            2
I  coconats/coffs.)          I          636 1           596 1             367 1           436.3 1    605.3 1          9622   1034.3 1        124ZI
2     -                               2- ----- I------   I------ I............._______ I------ I---------- I------ __________  I------ I__ _
*\ Thoem  are areas benefittin  directly from spraying. plant propagation, technical advice. etc. provided
under the projoct but not financed by ODD.



- 29 -
Table 6B: Eroduction at Full Developmelnt J
Crops                   Wlth ProJect           Without Project               Ineimentel
,....... ............                           ................             ..... ........... ........... ,_..........
Area   Production        Area   Production         Area        Production
(ha)    atom             (ha)     atone           (ha)          atone
,.....  ..........       ............. .... ...... .  .... .  .. ...................... .....
Banna                       100       200             416        9,838            316          9.S38
tRainfed)
Sugarcone                    50       500             193       11,439            143          10.939
(PLanted)
Fruit                        0         0               78          936             78            936
Vegetable/Root Crops          -         -              51          255             51             255
FLoriculture                 -                         9        Various             9         Various
Vehicles                                                                           MA               NA
Irrig.
Equipmnt
Agro-Iredstry                                                                      NA               NA
I/ This is an estimte of the benefits achieved froa the 570 subtloaws md by the Granadb Developmnnt
Bank i.e. actual data up to 1991, with years hence projected at 1991 leveL, except fruit tre e other
than pow paws and soursop) which are based on estimates at time of e&bloan apprastal, due to longer
gestation perfod C4 years) for production.



- 30 -
Table 6C: Financial Rate of Return
--------------------------------------------------------------------__--
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                         ~~~~~I                                I 
I              Crops                I Appraisal Estimates I   GDB-Loan Estimates   I
I                                   I                                    I
---------------------- ---------------------- ------------------------_
I   Banana-Rainfed                  I                             15    1                                 33    1
I                                   I                                    I                                       £
I   Bananas-Irrigated               I                             19    1                                 na    I
I                                   I                                 .*I                                        I
I   SugarCane                       I                             15    1                                 39    1
I                                   I                                    I                                       1
I   Coconut                         1                             16    1                                 na    I
I   Coffee                          1                             15                                      na    I
I                                   I                                    II
£   Tropical  Fruit                 1                             29    1                                 57    1
Vegetables                      I                             50    1                            60-70    1
O ornamental Flowers  1                                           21  1                                   24  1
I      &  Cut  Flowers              I                                    I                                       I
I   Agro-Industry                   I                                    1                                45    1
I   On  Farm  Equipment             I                                    1                                20    £
-----------------------   -----   ---------



- 31 -
Page I of 5
Table 6D: Studies
umumuum.uuuuuuuumuaum.........uuinuuuuuuuuuinuin.uuuuuuuUuuuuuUuuuuumumuw..........m
TITLE                             AUTHOR                    YEAR
1. MATSt ASSESSHENT AND RECOMMENDATIONS    AGRIDEV                       JUNE 1986
2. MATS: DEVELOPMENT OF CURRICULA           ACRIDEV                      NOV 1986
3. MATS: RECOHMENDATIONS & GUIDELINES       AGRIDEV                      MARCH 1987
FOR OBJECTIVE EVALUATION OF STUDENTS
4. MANAGEHENT SURVEY: NIB:DIAGNOSIS        AGRIDEV                      MARCH 1987
& RECOMMENDATIONS
5. THE GBCS:MANAGEMENT AUDIT                AGRIDEV                      JAN 1987
6. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON REHABILITATION      DELOITTE & BASKINS           MARCH 1987
& EQUIPMENT RENEWAL FOR THE GRENADA     I SYSTEMS CARIBBEAN LTD.
SUGAR FACTORY
7. PEASIBILITY STUDY ON REHABILITATION      SYSTEM CARIBBEAN LTD.        MARCH 1987
AND EQUIPMENT RENEWAL POR THE TEMPE
MtANUFACTURING CO.
8. DEVELOPHMENT OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE       ALEX HANSOUR                 MARCH 1987
SYSTEM FOR GRENADA
9. A STUDY OF TBE GRENADA COFFEE            P. ANTOINE                   DEC 1987
INDUSTRY
10. AVAILABILITY OF FRUIT & VEGETABLES      C. QUASHIE                   MAY 1988
FOR EXPORT FROM GRENADA
'1. GUIDELINES FOR FRUIT CROP DEVELOPMENT   PROF. EGERT TAI              1988
IN GRENADA
12. PRODUCTION COSTS & RETURNS PER ACRE     R. MARKS (ARCDP/GDB) &       1989
FOR SELECTED CROPS                      J. MURILLO (RAMP)
13. OMNIB. RIVER ROAD PACKBOUSE & ANCILLARY R. MARKS                     SEPT 1989
MARKETING FACILITIES-INVESTMENT PROPOSAL
14. CMNIB: 1989 BUSINESS PLAN               R. MARKS                     1989
15. GRENVILLE PORT DEVELOPHENT PLAN         S. LEE-YOUNG  PARTNERS       FEB 1990
16. DEMAND STUDY OF SELECTED MARKETS FOR    EBB ASSOC.                   1990
FRUIT PULP AND PUREE FROM GRENADA
17. ENVIRONMERTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF      MISC.                        1991
WIDENING THE LUFFING CHANNEL, GRENVILLE
HARBOUR



- 32 -
Page 2 of 5
Table 6D: Reports
TITLE                        AUTHOR                            YEAR
1. GRENADAs AGRIC. REHAB. & CROP DIV.         AGRIDEV                       MARCH 1988
REPORTSs PARTS I & II
2.  GRENADAs AGRIC. RERAB. & CROP DIV.        AGRIDEV                       JUNE 1988
PROGRESS REPORT: PARTS I & II
3.  GRENADA: AGRIC. REHAI. & CROP DIV.        AGRIDEV                       FEB 1989
FINAL REPORT
4.  ANNUAL PROJECT MANAGER'S REPORTS          AGRIDEV                       MARCH 1987
ma. .....w  _ .... B.m........... , .... mmin---, ...... mi........m........... l .. n 



- 33 -
Paee 3 of S
Table 6D: External Training
TR= c                              COALMU                   LOCIZZOU      mOD
*-(lPS7IU)-
1. POST RALIEST TECc     £5S SVTV. of CALIOU. "TNS   US                                1W No         C. LOaCu. wImS
1.  OORS2ZVAnH TOO  - JAMS & YSZQ DST. AU:tV =T.                          SAZL.        1W lW.S       l.O'Z  (CT=. 9MS)
.E. 0RVA??ON TV%tVARZE=             V.S. SUCAR CAl                       rTI sZ DAYS                   . josm  (ps)
UAI AcqUUsiOM                                     STAI ON.
A. PLAlT noPfASTlO  3OSz AUD                  ZCk                        3AR3AD S      1W  'ZS       v. J11s (PROP. 9S )
03SUAX?VOm SoO                                                       0ua4                         v. SAuK    (-c..)
S. DZPLMUA Dl AGRZC7LTU1E                    GTAlA SCH=  Of              GuIR          1W TA"        XS.T. KRZS.V (KOA)
C. LCID
S. C=SCAE Sl A2ClLTUtl.                      -DO-                                                    C: ProwrvLZ   HOL
7. S. St. At RICULTUR                        V=. Of V E SDZZ3            TL= fl        fOr lS        J. ECWISt (H)
*. tLl?S PZOTZCbOU CORSEt AM                 SCA/zCw                     T.nUzOA       7OL ELS    J. Tr-SORD (TECE)
P.  00  AMALTSUISdVIC?O=  VORISUP?         110                         T             our vUZ       T. RAHOO (20?)
10. I.S4. AAROHOVA!lWJZ qIMIuATnDl           ?zZGDIU STATE 011.          v"A           1W AMI On    PAUL G?.AEAj
RaLi TEAlS    (Eq. OfliCtl)
II. O PLAIT? QUAIArHM                        USDA                        v"            si VMZS   V0IAl TUC0
(.q. QoF1z=)
11. DZPLS?L CS ACSIZ TOY                     asA                         CUTIRA        TW TEARS      tl7 PAst (CM)
13. OSSZ&VATZQV TOOK                         JAwACL =0RT PROJ.           JAMAICA      Omm UE         V. PrLrs CAR=)
jAl@10, UtI. Ot RIl         USA
14. hICA, WS80PS t(CM=T  TAPAW)        1 5CA                              RADOS        SME           v.n  3 1.S
C. VINSICOSRO  tA)
IS. ITEARLE CROP PODUCTION. I                USDAICA/DS                   RIUSA        SEM WIMS    DAME CEARLIS OiOJCARDU
18. CALUUS   MOOD CROP $C%EfT ==0            crc s                       V&n=Q=        cut  =        &.o. UW. (HU)
17. CAnAMSOLA CODI                           ZXCA                        SUIA          anx EZL       C. oIDleSROR    (m.c.W
*          ~~~S. RADE  010)
is. cScU?Um  COVURH                          ISIDrS CCARRzREAR                         T"RSAUC 1 S US    . 0. CHALUS UA=P)
It. CeX.L     c PR5m SID5                    0=3                             .S&       cIE uU0       P. NECT=NE
20. FlULD VISm  rOCIAWTIC mos scZ            COSTA RICA                  COSTA UR      an  1Z         v" G. UArCU.Z  c)IJ
or IOOU TLIOLOCIZS 0t 2 SC,-
21. SDl1OMUAO  T SecLOG                      0RE1C CXSCE    C!       Seou010                         T. POUTS       (rICS)
n. UsT CAL. IoND CUoP SOCZT?  =MC            cm                              mxso RC   0   U=   le. v. PRILLIPS (ARM)
Is. VAM(r sO =  TEAL St" TM TO 3MCL   ML                                  Oman"        an V=          ax=& PRE
24. FUIT T1= SU   VSI T   Dt UICLs           DCO. Tau crP nw.            3DSICA        an   U        101530280w, lam
mamzo fLLORDA                            341?. of fLOIam             FLORIA                       P=Z?Is
25. fLORICULTURE ORSUVATJSNI SOUII JMCA    AzUOpS                        AMAICA        Wm DT          D. 255. P. 1EptUNE (1),
vOUL acIuS
24. CSwUR  COURSE                            mu                          541130        on  U          8. CIO=  0A)
n7. sA5M or TM IMAL 19*0o VISiT TQ           Nu0                         ST. 1Dls    OM.              !?C   PssE
ST.   CZ?
as. p.Am qUALart                             Om                          v"            ST 1           a. NUNR  (p.q.  ltrunu



- 34 -
Page 4 of 5
Table 6D: Local Training
M AMLOUA                                                 WCA1.ON         PER1OD          D CIUS
1. AIUAL Z3-SfVICS TRAINI  PROOM           "RENA                                      1986.90      HO/CWITL BOARS STA1
2.  IaSCGLAEIS PI  DAS, ECM.                  O0                         CRDA         1966-90      IFARHRIM/.Sl ON OMECBS
S. WOziW                                   am. al PIL                    A            1991          ML
4. CQIm    ooRu                            PVUAT¢ flB OREM"                          ITRE HONTS   9 tWA STA
3 OIR GOTVT. STAU



- 35 -
Page 5 of 5
Table 6D: Workshops
ROLE/TOPIC                                     BENEFICIARY
WORMSBOPS:
EXPORT MARKETS FOR FRUIT                       FAPR-ERS, MNIB, PFU, CARDI
CONDUCTED 1988 (WITH CARDATS)                  GDB, OTHERS
FWRlCULTURE IN GRENADA                         FARMERS, MOA, GDB EXPORTERS,
CONDUCTED 1990 (WITH CDB/ITC)                  OTHERS
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT                            FARMERS, GDB, MOA, MNIB, PFU,
SUPPORTED 1939 (GDB)                           OTHERS
LINKAGES BETWEEN AGRICULTURE & TOURISM         FARMERS, GDB, MOA, MNIB, PFU
CONDUCTED 1991 (WITH BOARD OF TOURISM)         BOARD OF TOURISM, HOTEL ASSN.
OTHER



- 36 -
Paeel1Iof 3
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Credit      Appraisal
Agreement    Report                                               Present'
Reference   Reference        Description of Conditions            Status
6.01(a)     3.09(d)      CDB to notify IDA that all               Fulfilled
conditions precedent to the first
disbursement of the CDB loan have
been fulfilled, as a condition of
effectiveness.
6.01(a)     3.11         Government to enter into                 Fulfilled
contractual arrangements,
satlsfactory to IDA, wLth MNIB
and GeCS, on lending IDA credit
resources, as a conditlon of
effectiveness.
6.01(c)     5.04         Government to establish the
Project Board of Management and         Fulfilled
the PMU, as a condition of
effective. Is.
2.02(b)     5.08         Borrower to open and maintain,           Fulfilled
in dollars, a Special Account
in a commercial bank acceptable
to IDA an teftsand conditfons
imtisfactory to IDA.
3.02        3.16         The Borrower to employ consultants       Done
whose qualLfieations, experience
and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory
to the AssociatLon.



- 37 -
Credit      Appraisal
Aqgeezent    Report                                               Present
Reference   Reference        Description of Conditions           Status
3.0S        3.15         Studies on the feasibility of            Studies completed,
rehabLliation needs for the sugar       and actions where
and rum factory, and feasibility        &;licable axe
study of renewal and upgrading          being applied.
of the machinery and equipment at
the coconut oil factory to be
.performed during the first project
year and presented to IDA by
June 30, 1986.
3.05        3.14         The Borrower to prepare studles         Xanagementi Studies
ref errred to in Part D (2) of the      for XOI3 and GBCS
project (management organizatLon        completed, and
requirements of MNIB, management        recommendations have
organization requirements of            been implemented.
GBCS, ma:keting of export crops,        Consultant studies
and optimal resource utilization        completed and agri.
on family owned or operated             products being exported.
farms), and carry out the
recommendations of such studies
in a manner and in accordance
with timetables satisfactory to
IDA.
3.06        1.25         The Borrower to exchange views          Discussion with Government
with IDA in March of each year,         met with limited success
starting in March 1986, on the          (led to ceduction in
Borrower's polLcies in the              subsidies on
agricultural sector.                    Government-propagated
materials).
3.08        3.12         The Borrower to transfer cars            Ongoing.  For HnA
referred to under Part B(1)(d)          extension staff, the
and 5(c) of the project to              vehicles are leased for 5
relevant agricultural extenslon         years at 4% interest, with
staff of XOA and the mNIB, under        option to buy. For =IDB
terms and conditions                    staff, the vehicles are
satisfactory to ZDA.                    leased for 3 years at
interest rats of 4%, also
with option to buy..
3.11        3.02 ane    The Borrower to maintain the              Board of managment
S .03        project Board of Management to           convened sporadLcally
provide coordinatLon and policy        and wa  sromeihat
guidance for the project; and   ;       ineffective.  PMU
the Project Management UnLt to         performance was fully
provide supervision for the             satisfactory.
project and other responsibilitLes
satisfactory to IDA.



- 38 -
Credit.    ipraisa.l2
Agreement    Report                                             Present
Reference   Ref rance       Description of Conditions           Status
Schedule S  3,11        The Borrower to relend to MNWB          FuAde have been
and CBCS the proceeds of the            applied under
credit required for carrying out        contzactual
their respective components of          arrangements between
the project.                            3NZB/GBCE/Governmsnt
of Grenada.
Schedule 5  3.11        WNKI and CBCS shall pay interest        GBCS is meeting its
an the proceeds of the credit on        commitments but MNIB
lent to them at the rate ot             failed until recently.
10.5% per annum on the principal
amounts withdrawn. The interest
rate shall be subject to annual
review to ensure it remains
positive in real terms.
3.01        5.01       Borrower to declare its commitment       Adequate funds and
to the objectives of the project,       facillties are
and provrde funds, facilities,          being provided.
services, and other_resources ne-
necessary to-:Project coinletion.
3.09 &     3.18         Detailed annual training program-       Program under
3.10                    would be prepared by the                the project is
Government not later than               completed.
November 30 of each year and
presented to IDA. Selection of
suitable candidates for overseas
training and the designatLon of
institutions for such training
would b done according to
criteria satisfactory to IDA.
4.01        5.07        The Borrower to furnish to the           Fulfilled.
AssocLation and audit report(s)
on the Special Account and other
project accounts, audited by                       -
indepandent auditors acceptable
to IDA, not later than four
months after the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year (i.e., by
April of each year).
Schedule 5              iNSB and GBCS shall carry out            Retommendations have
recomendations of the studies           been implemented, to
referred to under Part                  the extent feasible
D(2)(a)(b) of the project,
respective in terms satisfactory
to the Borrower and XDA.



-39 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A Staff Iputs
(Stuffeks)
FT      PREPARARION  APPRUSAL  NKOOTIhTCOIS  SUMRVISION         OTIER      TOTAL
1983           32.8                                                           32.8
1984            34.4       23.5                                               57.9
1985                       21.9            6.7           0.6                  29.2
1986                                                     5.2                   5.2
1987                                                     8.1                   8.1
1988                                                     7.0                   7.0
1989                                                     6.7                   6.7
1990                                                     5.6                   5.6
1991                                                     4.6 1                4.6
Total          67.2       45.4            6.7          37.8                 157.1
1! lacl2de staffwSk. for PtR.



- 40 -
Page 2 of 2
B. Bank Missions
vTan 0? PROM=0          mm1U   1111=  0   DMEN am                6?CAXAupU1waNO                          TMU Of
CT=PRISM                                                A031t50  1iT         3AT= orS 21 lUBIU   S 
ZdmIfictit SBank         $16         1           14
wparzatia u AD          Sa3        S            14
Appraisal Thrcqh
Board Pramatatic
App raisal               5164        5           14
Suavilu            ISIS?       I            £                   *                      2          1,3
Supar u s                11          1            7                   b                      2         r.n
sup.wia6.a4              0168        1            *a                                         I 2.,
Stwav6la  S              12/1       2                                                        3 a  I     *,
Sup.uv. 6                06169       1            S                     *                              V
Suprawil.                itiso       I            6                                          2         V
luparvum      aS         06190       1            3                   b                      2         0
suviat *                 11,90       1            4                   a                      I
=uarwtl  10              05191      I             S                   b                      I
1/ a-ag ultutg  b t         ,sub st. a_soaostg d_.saeultural e_aaaIts w.fnauutl taayst.
2/ 1.pwbl  free$ 2       _d.raa prablems; 3-s.rLaa problms.
3I 1-1Snolalg __Uammts Ortaw. suc  a dslyy Su procsaaa_ ultbr_ml a"liaatSa  ad sausaisaof audit
re ts,  r  ract peea reertst".



IBRD 18410
1161°                                 61046V                                81°40'
GRENADA
llIrN  WLIVATIN (F)  AGRICULTURAL  REHABILITATION  AND  CROP
DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
__ _ _1500                                                                    tr
, ,,,,  too:ese+I
W -         Main osas
Rkim
-201WN     o     Main Towns                Ton100N
,PIO N         +   l  ° T t2Akport 
--5C-  Awaap -Al Rainfall
laN m                                                                                                                    120Nf
srti/ fN . . un f;:-Jn                                                                     ll
~~~~~~j ~~~~~~~80                                                                        CARRIACOU
41--  R,  .II
Pt Siln                       N 
2WN                                                                                                                       1U'
C.r.,be U Sea
0   I   2   3   4   5
mret eWCnw D no  Lw # ""m5wa 01 ft   2M *0 ; . hVmwdome
b-* Ci 91. " #a of  5YM -t   * wV .,mtmwk 0  cuSWc d.NW bo,wM  MIt
Cirw                                  61045'W                               m                               AMl la w
AUGUST 1984



