Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ct? /,sw~--c
Report No. P-3945-GRD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
rsO THE
EXECUT IVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 5.0 MILLION
(US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GRENADA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND
CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
.
February 12, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance Of
their official duties. Its contents mal not otherwise be disclosed without Wuorld Bank authorination.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
EC$1.00            '       US$0.37
EC$1,000000 .             US$370,000
US$1.00            '      EC$2.70
US$1,000,000              EC$2,700,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
jp
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1.0 mile           2    1.6 kilometers (km)
1.0 inch           =   25.4 millimeters (mm)
1.0 acre           =    0.4 hectare (ha)
1.0 square mile   =    2.6 square kilometers (kim2) = 640 acres
1.0 lb.            =    0.45 kilogram (kg)
2,205 lb.          =    1.0 m. ton (mt)
ABBREVIATIONS
CAEP               Caribbean Agricultural Extension Project
CARDI              Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development Institute
CARDATS            Caribbean Agricultural Research Development and Training
Service
CARICOM            Caribbean Community
CARIBBEAN GROUP   Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CDB                Caribbean Development Bank
c.i.f.             Cost Insurance Freight
CIDA               Canadian International Development Agency
EDF                European Development Fund
f.o.b.             Free on Board
GAIDC              Grenada Agricultural and Industrial Development Corporation
GBCS               Grenada Banana Cooperative Society
GCA                Grenada Cocoa Producers Association
GCNA               Grenada Cooperative Nutmeg Association
GDB                Grenada Development Bank
GFC                Grenada Farm Cooperatives
IARY               Inter-Agency Resident Mission
MNIS               Marketing and National Import Board
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Forestrv, Fisheries and
Tourism.
MUOW               Ministry of Communications, Works, Civil Aviation, Energv
and Public Utilities
MOF               MAiniscry of Finance, Trade and  Planning
NACUA              National Agency of Cooperative Development
NAEIP              National Agricultural Extension Improveiment Plan
PMU                Project Mlanagement Unit
PRG                People's Revolutionary Government
USAID              United States Agency for Interinational Development
WINBAN             Windward Islands Banana Growers Association



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Grenada
Amount:                   SDR 5.0 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
6.
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to:
rehabilitate crops and expand production; and
promote the marketing of crops for export, domestic
consumption and agroindustries. The project pro-
vides for: (a) medium- and long-term credit to
farmers and agroindustries through the Grenada
Development Bank (GDB) with funding to be provided
by the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB); (b) up-
grading and institutional strengthening of existing
support services and infrastructure (Agriculture
Extension Service, Agricultural School, Plant
Propagation Unit, Plant Protection Unit, and mar-
keting system); and (c) the establishment of a
feeder road maintenance management system. These
activities would be supported by training, studies
and technical assistance.
Benefits and Risks:       The proposed project would assist directly some 800
to 1,000 farmers in rehabilitating their crop pro-
duction on about 1,250 ha. Most other farmers on
the island would benefit indirectly from the proj-
ect by receiving improved services (extension and
marketing) and by utilizing better roads and market
facilities. In addition, the proposed project
would have a beneficial effect on Grenada's balance
of payments by increasing agricultural exports and
reducing imports.  The proposed project faces
moderate natural, technological, institutional and
marketing risks which are common for this kind of
project. However, it proposes a series of measures
to minimize these risks.   These include implement-
ing on-farm drainage, soil conservation and plant
protection measures; increasing the supply of agri-
cultural inputs; and providing technical assistance
in institutional strengthening, and for supporting
the marketing system.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                  Local    Foreign      Total
(US$ Thousand)
On-farm and Agroindustrial
Investmeuts                                    1,328      1,166      2,494
Extension Service                                  117         705       822
Plant Propagation Unit                              92         403       495
Plant Protection Unit                               24         104       128
Marketing System                                   203         635       838
Banana Cooperative Society                           -         143       143
Institutional Strengthening                         14         126       140
Feeder Road Maintenance                            131         945     1,076
Project Management                                 166         269       435
Subtotal                                       2,075      4,496      6,571
Physical Contingencies                             112         500       612
Price Contingencies                                157         571       728
TOTAL                                          2,344      5,567      7,911
.=
The project will be exempt from taxes.
Financing Plan:                                  Local    Foreign      Total
(US$ Thousand)
IDA                                                599      4,401      5,000
CDB                                                734       1,166     1,900
Government                                         417           -       417
Farmers                                            594    -              594
TOTAL                                          2,344      5,567      7,911
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                             1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
(US$ Million)
Annual                                       0.8    1.0    1.2    1.3    0.7
Cumulative                                   0.8    1.8    3.0    4.3    5.0
Rate of Return:                   21%
Staff Appraisal Report:           Report No. 5237-GRD dated February 13, 1985
ivLaps                            IBRD 18410 and 18411



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED CREDIT TO GRENADA
FOR AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5.0 MILLION
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL t% &ABILITATION AND
CROP DIVERSIFICAlION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Grenada for the amount of SDR 5.0 million (US$5.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Crop Diversification Project. Parts of the proceeds of
the credit, US$0.2 million and US$0.6 million, would be relent to the
Grenada Banana Cooperative Society (GBCS) and the Marketing and National
Importing Board (MNIB), respectively, on terms of ten years, including a
three-year grace period, and 10.5% interest1/.   The Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB) is expected to participate by providing US$1.9 million to help
finance the credit component of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A World Bank mission visited Grenada in August 1984 to update
information on the economic situation in the country. This section also
draus on an Economic Memorandum on Grenada, prepared by the Government of
Grenada with the assistance of the Caribbean Development Bank and presented
at the February 1984 meeting of the Bank-chaired Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development (Caribbean Group). An economic report,
based on a World Bank mission in January 1985, is being prepared for
submission at the next Caribbean Group meeting to be held in June 1985.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Grenada, one of the less developed countries of the Eastern
Caribbean, is situated in the Windward Islands chain. The country, with
its dependencies of Carriacou and Petite Martinique, covers an area of 342
sq km and has an estimated population of 92,000. Because of its recent
vo]canic origin, the terrain is extremely rugged. The soil conditions and
*       abundant rainfall (during the June-December season) make the island well
suited for the cultivation of several tropical crops. Grenada, after
Indonesia, is the second largest producer of nutmegs and mace in the
world.  The island's cocoa production is of premium quality and bananas are
also an important crop. In addition, with its superb beaches, beautiful
landscape and climate, the country has the potential to develop a
significant tourism industry.
4.        Grenada's population is relatively young and educated;
approximately two thirds are under the age of 25 and the literacy rate is
over 85%. A decline in the birth rate and migration resulted in a small
/ This is the minimum rate at which the Grenada Development Bank (GDB) is
allowed to onlend funds provided by the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB).



-2-
decline in total population between 1970 and 1980. Total population has
risen slightly since then. The young population, however, has caused the
labor force to increase at a higher rate than the total population and
faster than the economy can generate new jobs. Information on the labor
force and unemployment is scanty in Grenada, but government officials
estimate that about a quarter of the labor force is unemployed.
5.        Agriculture is the dominant productive sector in the economy
accounting for a quarter of gross domestic product (GDP).  Tourism's
contribution to GDP is about 10% while manufacturing's share is small at
less than 3%. The economy is very open; the sum of exports and imports of
goods and nonfactor services has surpassed the value of GDP in recent
years.
Economic Developments: 1970-1983
6.        Following about 15 years of sustained economic recovery after the
massive destruction caused by a hurricane in 1955, economic activity
declined in the early 1970s. Agricultural output fell largely because of
the demise of the estate system and the failure to re'place it with an
effective substitute. The decline in economic activity culminated in 1974
because of the October 1973 increase in oil prices, adverse weather
conditions, and the civil disturbances which accompanied independence.
During the 1975-78 period, higher world prices for Grenada's major export
crops, favorable weather conditions and a boom in the tourism industry
resulted in economic growth averaging nearly 5% in real terms per year.
7.        A coup d'etat in March 1979 brought a new government (People's
Revolutionary Government-PRG) to power. One of its stated objectives was
to eliminate the fundamental constraints to economic development. The PRG
established new trading and aid links and expanded the tale of the public
sector in agriculture, manufacturing and commerce. However, Grenada's real
growth rate dropped to 2.5% a year in 1979-80 because of a sharp decline in
tourist arrivals and a drop in agricultural production after a hurricane
hit the island in 1980. In 1981-82 the economy grew on average by 3.3% in
real terms per year spurred by recovery in agriculture and manufacturing
production, and by further advances in public sector construction
activities (primarily associated with the new international airport) and                  e
government and other services. Tourism continued to show a declining
trend.
8.        Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1983 real GDP declined by
2%. Agricultural output dropped because of lower production of bananas and
nutmeg/mace, while cocoa production stagnated. Tourist arrivals (excluding
returning Grenadian nonresidents) remained at the 1982 level and
manufactured exports dropped because of the general trade and payments
problem experienced in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) region during the
year, including the effect of Trinidad and Tobago's foreign trade
restrictions imposed to lower import levels. The deterioration in the
economy was exacerbated further by the violent coup d'etat and subsequent
military intervention by the United States and several Caribbean countries
in October 1983. Tourism was affected adversely; the closure of the port



- 3 -
reduced economic activity in other sectors; and unemployment rose as the
People's Revolutionary Army, organized by the PRG, was disbanded.
9.        Since Grenada is a very open economy, price trends generally
reflect international inflation rates. In 1980-81 the average Increase in
the consumer price index was 20% per annum, pushed up by the rise in
domestic food prices caused by hurricane damage. Inflation decelerated to
7.8% in 1982, to 6.1% in 1983, and 5.7% in 1984, aided also by the
appreciation of the US dollar (to which the EC$ is tied) against other
major currencies.
10.       In 1977-78 several fiscal measures were introduced to strengthen
fiscal performance and in 1979 the PRG entered into a Stand-by arrangement
with the International Monetary Fund. As part of the program the
Government increased the effectiveness of revenue collection, raised taxes
and instituted better expenditure controls. A small current surplus was
recorded in 1979. Although this shifted to a deficit equivalent to nearly
1% of GDP in 1980, the deficit was reduced the following year as a result
of measures taken as part of the IMF program; a surplus was recorded in
1982 and 1983. However, the sharp increase in capital expenditures in
1979-82, primarily associated with the construction of the new
international airport, caused the overall deficit to widen from 7% of GDP
in 1978 to 34% in 1982. Much of the deftcit was covered by inflows of
external grants and concessional loans, which rose from about 1% of GDP in
1978 to an average of about 20% in 1980-82. The use of nonconcessional
financing, which had been negligible before 1981, rose to nearly 12% of GDP
by 1982. In 198' the Government began to experience a liquidity crisis,
largely because of delayed external flows. This situation caused a
shortfall in counterpart contributions for projects other than the
international airport, a buildup of domestic and international arrears, and
greater recourse to overdraft facilities. Primarily because of the drop in
capital expenditures, the overall deficit dropped to 29% of GDP in 1983.
11. The deficit in the current account of Grenada's balance of payments
increased from 1% of GDP in 1978 to 31% of GOP in 1982. The main reasons
for the deterioration were: stagnant export earnings, hurricane damage to
agricultural production in 1980; price declines for Grenada's major crops
after 1980; a decline in tourism receipts and a sharp increase in imports
for the public sector investment program.  Excluding expenditures related
to the airport (imports and foreign workers' salaries), the current account
deficit had increased to 18% of GDP by 1982. From 1979 onwards the growing
current account deficit was financed mostly by grants and cosicessionary
loans to the public sector. In 198U Grenada borrowed nearly USS6 million
from the International Monetary Fund under the Compensatory Financing
Facility and a Stand-by arrangement. It is estimated that the current
account deficit dropped somewhat as a share of GDP in 1983 (to 25%) because
of some improvement in export performance and a drop in imports.  However,
inflows of external grants declined sharply, the gap being made up largelv
by public external borrowings.
Major Ubjectives of the Interim Administration and the New Government
1z.       Erie chief oobjtec ;veF :he iht?rim -idmi-iitratinn, which took
oftice in December 19l3, was to achieve an economic, social. and political
environment which cotld provide the proper hasis for the roinstatome'nt of



the democratic process and the holding of elections.  Relating specifically
to the economy, the goals were to reduce unemployment; to generate economic
growth with the involvement of all economic groups in the reconstruction
effort; to increase foreign exchange earnings and public sector savings;
and to minimize growth of the debt burden. The administration also has
attempted to increase private sector participation in the reconstruction
effort and in productive investment in manufacturing and tourism. Under
the interim administration, the investment code was revised in order to
better promote inrestment, both foreign and local. A study of the
parastatals was completed and a decision taken, in principle, to divest
several Government-owned enterprises. In addition, the administration
relaxed controls on interest rates, prices, and foreign exchange
transactions.  The new Government, which was elected in December 1984, is                   v
in the process of formulating its economic strategy. The Government has
confirmed the objective of promoting a larger private sector involvement in
the economy. Priorities for further actions include a reduction in the
fiscal deficit, lowering the public debt burden, undertaking a
comprehensive fiscal reform to improve incentives for productive
activities, and reorganizing the public sector to bring it within
manageable proportions.
Public Sector Investment and Financing
13.       The 1984-1986 public sector investment program which had been
proposed by the previous government envisaged total expenditures of about
US$134 million with spending peaking in 1984. External grants were
expected to finance 35% of the total investment program, with other
external sources covering an additional 50%. In addition, the program
assumed a significant level of public sector savings. However, serious
financial difficulties had emerged in carrying out the program. The
difficulties were partially due to the ceilings (set in the Government's
program with the iMF) on public sector borrowings from the domestic banking
systems and on external borrowings on conventional terms, as well as to the
limited availability of counterpart funding. Because of these problems,
the Government delayed commencement of several projects in 1983.  The
violent coup d'etat and subsequent military intervention by the United
States and several Caribbean countries also significantly affected the
proposed investment program. The closure of the port and drop in economic
activity lowered revenue. On the other hand, reconstruction needs
increased government expenditures. Finally, financing from the previously
established aid links, which was expected to cover nearlv a third of the
program, did not materialize.
14.       Assisted by the CDS and the Inter-Agency Resident Mission
(IAkM)2/, the Interim Administration revised in 1984 the public sector
2/ The Inter-Agency Resident Mission (IARM) was established in September
1982, with support from UNDP, the World Bank, IMF, OAS, IDB, CDB, ODA,
USAID, and CIDA. The mission was designed to help the member countries
of the Organization or Eastern Caribhean States (0ECS) - Antigua and
Barb;ida, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Christopher and Nevis. St.
Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines - improve their overall
economic performance, accelerate thie exec,,ti(n ot investment projects.,
increase the quality and eftectiveness ot aitl tlows. anrd to assist the
0ECS Economic Aftairs Secretariat (PAS) and thei (CDK in preparing to
asstime the service role ot the [ARM.



investment program. The revised program reflected the major objectives of
the Interim Administration, the scarcity of management skills, and the
anticipated delays in recruiting the skills to replace the expatriates who
have left the island. The total expenditure projected for the 1984-86
period remained at slightly under US$100 million, but the emphasis in the
program shifted markedly away from investments in directly productive
activities to supporting infrastructure projects. This reallocation within
the PSIP supportei the stated priority of the Interim Administration to
e       reduce the size and scope of the role of the public sector in the economy,
particularly in lilght of the poor performance of several public enterprises
engaged in productive activities. The major objectives of the revised PSIP
were to establish the necessary infrastructure and supporting services for
a private sector led economic recovery. The Interim Administration
presented this program at the Caribbean Group in February 1984 and
attempted to mobilize USk35 million in external financing.
15.       It proved difficult for the Interim Administration to carry out
this investment program. Given donor commitments and the status of
negotiations for new loans, the total investment program for 1984-86 is
Likely to be closer to US$83 million. The most important component of the
program in 1984 and 1985 is the project to complete the international
airport (US$19 million), with funding provided principally by the U.S. and
Canada. The reduced program continues to stress economic infrastructure.
Projects in the agricultural sector account for most of the proposed
investment in directly productive activities. These projects include an
ongoing cocoa rehabilitation program (financed by CIDA), agricultural
feeder roads (funded through a CDB loan), and agricultural rehabilitation.
The latter includes an ongoing short-term USAID project and the proposed
IDA-financed project, which also has a diversification component. USAID is
supporting projects to rehabilitate and upgrade economic infrastructure,
including roads, factory shells and utilities, in addition to providing
balance of payments assistance. The CDB is also financing the construction
of factory shells and credit lines for agriculture, industry, and tourism.
The new Government has declared its intention to reduce further the public
sector investment program, particularly those projects which would have a
significant impact on the Central Government's recurrent budget. The
priorities which would be stressed as the investment program is revised are
revenue yielding proiects and improvements in supporting economic
infrastructure (roads and public utilities).
Economic Prospects and External Debt
16.       The economy is estimated to have grown marginally (less than 1%)
in 1984. While construction picked up during the completion of work on the
international airport and tourist arrivals were up (mainly because of
business and official visitors), manufacturing and agricultural output
stagnated. Thereafter, prospects for economic growth in Grenada should
improve. The ongoing projects to rehabilitate the agricultural sector and
to strengthen support services and input supply should promote growth in
the sector, with the possible exception of nutmeg because of the serious
marketing difficulties. In the slhort-to-medium term, tourism offers the
greatest potential for increasing employment and foreign exchange revenue,
and tor scimulating investment. Completion of the airport will provide the
infrastructure needed to facilitate improved air connections. In the area



- 6 -
of manufacturing, development is more uncertain.  Industries catering to
the CA&ICOM market have suffered drops in output because of the trade
restrictions imposed by Trinidad and Tobago and the general trade and
payments difficulties in the region. In both the tourism and muanufacturing
sectors, future growth will be assisted by the recent changes in the
incentives and regulations relating to foreign and local private
investment. If econiomic growth in the OECD countries is sustained and if
the incentive structure put in place is sufficiently attractive to private
investors and supports an expansion of exports outside the CARICOM region,
economic growth of 4-5% in real terms per annum could be achieved by
1986-87.
17.       The Government's fiscal situation remained critical in 1984.  For
the first half of the year, the current account deficit of the Central
Government is estimated to be 2.5% of GDP. Although the previous
Government's People's Revolutionary Army has disbanded, outlays are up
because of a wage increase for civil servants equal to ,1.5% on average,
retroactive to January 1, 1984, and reconstruction work. In addition,
continued low levels of most economic activities have resulted in lower
receipts from taxes on exports and company income. Bezause of the existing
budget constraints, donors should be prepared to finance a major portion of
the local cost requirements of externally supported projects. Continued
large investment expenditures would prevent the current accotnt of the
balance of payments from declining significantly as a share of GDP until
1986. Thereafter public investment will decline to more sustainable levels
(compared to the 30% share of GDP recorded in 1983) as several major
projects would be completed. The corresponding decline in imports, coupled
with higher receipts from tourism revenue and agr.cultural exports, would
also result in a narrowing of the current account deficit's share of GDP.
18.       Outstanding public external debt at the end of 1982 totaled US$31
million (3U% of GDP). Debt owed to the International Monetary Fund
represented about a fifth of the total and accounted for slightly over half
of the debt service in 1982. According to preliminary estimates for 1983,
the Government's net external borrowings in 1983 were USS14.6 million,
which would raise outstanding public external debt to US$48 million, about
401 of GDP. Because concessional loans have accounted for the major share
of Grenada's external capital inflows, the debt service ratio in 1982 was
only an estimated 6.2Z. gome increase in the debt service is projected
over the next three years given the maturity structure of the outstanding
debt, but is not expected to exceed 25X of the projected revenlie from goods
and nonfactor services.  The newly elected Government has declared its
intention to limit severely future borrowings, particularly those on
commercial terms, and to rely on grants and concessional loans to finance
the investment program.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       Grenada gained indeipendence from the Unitp-d Kingdom in 197!.  It
became a member of the bank and IDA in 1975.  G;r,nada is also a mn.mb'-r of
the Caribbean Development Bank (CIM), a regional 1eve1prn.pm.nt hank with
which the Bank Group has had three lending oper;itio'1s, whirh w..re approvord
in fiscal vears 1970, 1961 and 1983.  In order i' rv-:dicr:, th'* high co.st  to



-7-
the Bank of processing very small projects, and to assist the institutional
development of the CDB, Bank Group strategy has been to channel resources
to the small countries of the Eastern Caribbean mainly through the CDB,
except in those instances where projents have been beyond CDB's technical
and financial capacity. Furthermore, Bank Group strategy has also been to
maintain an active economic policy dialogue with the governments of these
small islands and to assist them in obtaining external financing of their
investment programs through the Caribbean Group mechanism along the lines
discussed in paragraph 20 below.
20.       Consistent with the above, the Bank Group's second operation with
*      CDB is helping, inter alia, to finance a water supply project in Grenada.
The CDB is using US$700,000 of the 1980 IDA Credit (No. 960-CRG) to help
finance the project.  In additioa, the CDB has recently approved a US$1.6
million credit to Grenada to help finance a road reconstruction project,
which is expected to use funds from the FY83 IDA Credit (No. 1364-CRG).
Grenada has participated in the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development (Caribbean Group) since its inception in 1977. The Group has
functioned under Bank leadership as an aid coordination mechanism for the
region. Through the work of the Caribbean Group, the Bank has conducted a
dialogue with the Government on its development priorities and economic
policies. Economic reports and project lists and profiles have been
prepared, submitted to donors, and discussed at country subgroup meetings
which have generally been held at the time of the annual Caribbean Group
meeting. In the context of the preparation of these reports, Bank staff,
directly or indirectly, through the Inter-Agency Resident Mission (IARM),
have maintained a dialogue with the Government on the formulation of the
Public Investment Program. The country subgroup meetings have focused
attention on the central issues of economic performance and priority
financing requirements of governments. The Caribbean Group has also
promoted regional activities which have benefited all recipient member
countries. These activities have included technical assistance programs
for energy, tourism, transportation and export promotion, as well as
assistance for the preparation and securing of financing for private sector
investment projects.
21.       This is the first direct Bank Group operation in Grenada and no
other direct Bank Group financing is foreseen over the near term.  It is
likely, however, that the country will continue to receive Bank Group
financing indirectly, from the ongoing IDA credit to CDB.  Future credits
from CUB will likely be for technical education and for essential
infrastructure. The Bank, as Chairman of the Caribbean Group, will also
continue to cooperate with Grenada in promoting and coordinating external
assistance for the country's development programs.
PART Ill - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture plays a Leading role in the Grenadiari economy,
providing an important source of income, export earnings and employment.
In 1982, the sector's contribution to GDP was about EC$95 million (USS35
million) or 25%. r)f this amotint about 75Z. came from fotur exported
commodities (bananas, cocoa, nutmeg and mace); the remaining 25% came from
other fruits and spices, vegetables, sugarcane, root cr.ps and livestock



- 8 -
products. In 1982 the f.o.b. value of exports from fresh, semiprocessed
and processed agricultural products was EC$36.6 million (US$13.6 million),
or 73% of the country's total exports. Cocoa accounted for 34% of total
agricultural exports; bananas for 24%; nutmeg for 22%; mace for 7%; fruits
and vegetables for 12%; and agroindustrial products for 1%. However,
Grenada is heavily dependent on food imports; the c.i.f. value of food
imports in 1982 was EC$41.5 million, about 13% more than the value of all
agricultural exports. According to the Agricultural Census of 1981, the
agricultural labor force, including farm owners, was estimated at some
12,500 workers, about one-third of the country's labor force. Of the 8,200
farm owners, 49% were full-time farmers and 51% were part-time. About 31%
of the part-time farmers worked as hired workers on other farms. Despite
the high unemployment rate in urban areas, farm owners complain of
difficulties in hiring workers, especially during the peak harvesting
season.
23.       Grenada is humid and tropical, with an annual average rainfall
ranging from 1,270 mm (50 inches) in the coastal lowlands to over 4,200 mm
(165 inches) in the mountainous interior. The climate is generally
favorable for most agricultural activities and the island is able to
produce a wide range of crops throughout the year. However, there are also
the following drawbacks: rain is unevenly distributed and there is a lack
of irrigation facilities; heavy rainfall and high winds on hillside and
mountain areas create deep gullies and contribute to soil erosion; and,
finally, hurricanes can cause severe damage to agricultural property.
24.       Grenada's total area is 342 km2 (34,200 ha)3J.  The topography
is rugged, the amount of flat land is negligible, and only 29% of the land
has a slope of 20 degrees or less. Although erosion generally constitutes
a threat, there is little evidence of serious erosion on agricultural
lands, probably because of the traditional system of tree crops closely
planted in mixed stands and the drainage systems constructed on many
farms. In 1982, 55% of the total land area was considered agricultural
land, of which 9,920 ha (53% of agricultural land) were under permanent
tree crops, 4,330 ha (23%) were under temporary crops, and the remaining
4,574 ha (24%) were grassland, forest, woodland and other lands.
25.       Agriculture in Grenada is based predominantly on small farms; 46%
of all farms are under 1.0 acre (0.4 ha); 39Z are between 1.0 and 5 acres
(2.02 ha); and 11. are larger than 5.0 acres. There are only 24 farm units
larger than 100 acres each. Most farmers have title of ownership to their
lands and only 4% are landless. In addition to the private sector farms,
the previous Government created a new kind of publicly owned farms: the
state farms, which in 1981 covered some 1,350 ha. The future of these
state farms is being examined by a government committee. Although these
farms are not included in the proposed project, at present they constitute
a financial burden on the Government. The Government's decision on these
publicly owned farms are included in the topics to be discussed with the
Association (see para 39).
3/  Including the main island of Grenada (305 km2) and the islands
Carriacou, Petite Martinique and other islets.



- 9 -
26.       Agricultural production centers around three leading export
crops: cocoa, nutmeg and mace, and bananas. These crops are usually grown
together in a mixed stand. The estimated area planted with these crops is
about 9,000 ha (compared to 18,800 ha of total agricultural land). Other
crops include sugarcane, coconuts, avocados, mangoes and vegetables. In
general, agricultural production in Grenada has declined over the past 10
years, especially during 1979-83 when the Government imposed controls over
economic activities. The main reasons for this decline were depressed
world prices for the major export products during most of the period,
foreign exchange constraints which forced drastic reductions in the use of
fertilizer and other chemicals, and the deterioration of the agricultural
supporting services.
27.       At present, a six-year cocoa rehabilitation project is in its
third year of implementation with the assistance of the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA). Nutmeg and mace are experiencing
marketing problems, and there are large quantities of unsold stock. The
Government is trying, without much success, to explore alternative markets
for these two products. The proposed project would therefore concentrate
on production improvement in bananas, sugarcane, coconuts and other tree
and food crops with good market prospects.
Agricultural Institutions and Support Services
28.       The Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Forestry, Fisheries and
Tourism (MOA) has the primary responsibility for the agricultural sector.
It has a suitable and effective organizational structure. However, until
recently several important units, the Project Monitoring Unit and the
Integrated Pest Control Unit, were inactive, and two important positions,
the Permanent Secretary and the Chief Technical Officer, were filled only
recently. MOA communicates with farmers through the support service units
described in paragraphs 29 to 38 below.
29.       Extension.  MOA (through the Extension Service) provides
extension services to farmers on the island. On average, there are about
300 farmers per extension agent. However, the service reaches only a small
number of farmers as it has not yet developed appropriate methods and
:      suffers from a shortage of trained manpower, vehicles and audio visual
equipment. Furthermore, the service suffers from excessive staff turnover,
due to lack of incentives and motivation. Two of the commodity
organizations (cocoa and bananas) maintain their own crop-specific
extension services; their coordination and cooperation with MOA's Extension
Service is minimal. Moreover, the officers of these commodity associations
are involved in many other activities (quality control, pre- and
post-harvest regulatory tasks) and therefore have little time for their
extension work. USAID provides financial assistance to MOA's Extension
Service and training to its officers.



- 10 -
30.       Research.  A limited amount of adaptive research is conducted by
the Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development Institute (CARDI), the
Caribbean Agricultural Research Development and Training Service (CARDATS)
and the Windward Islands Banana Growers Association (WINBAN). Although
limited, the adaptive research carried out is sufficient to deal with the
major practical problems faced by the farmers.
31.       Plant Pror.;gation.  MOA operates a central propagating nursery at
the Mirabeau Agricultural Station, producing seedlings, root cuttings and
saplings for sale to farmers. The nursery produces high-quality certified
plants, but production is not sufficient to meet the demand because of a
shortage of trained staff and lack of equipment, materials and transport
facilities.
32.       Credit.  Farmers have access to credit from a variety of sources:
the Grenada Development Bank (GDB); commercial banks; credit unions;
commodity associations; the National Agency of Cooperative Development
(NACDA); and informal sources such as traders and suppliers. However, only
the GDB and the rural credit unions provide significant amounts of medium-
and long-term credit for on-farm investments. The objective of GDB, which
is owned by the Government, is to promote investments in agriculture,
industry, tourism and fisheries. It has functioned as a channel for
government and CDB funds via short-, medium- and long-term loans to the
private and public sectors. The CDB has also supported GDB in its
institutional strengthening efforts. As a result, GDB has succeeded in
becoming a well-organized bank with a core of trained staff. By the end of
1982, total loans outstanding to agriculture amounted to EC$10.3 million
(US$3.8 million), of which about 4U% was provided by commercial banks.
However, a large part of the commercial bank loans which was classified as
agricultural credit was provided to non-farmers for the purchase of land
for non-agricultural purposes. Interest rates are positive and determined
by the prevailing market conditions. At present GDB and the commercial
banks lend at 11% for agriculture and between 11.5% and 13% for other
sectors. The domestic inflation rate was 7.8% in 1982 and 6.1% in 1983.
Farmers' demand for credit has been low because of high interest rates, low
profitability in the sector, which has led to insufficient financial
incentives, available alternative sources of informal credit (traders and
suppliers), political instability, and lack of promotion for the proper use
of agricultural credit. There are indications, however, that with the
change in the political situation and with the support of an effective
promotional program, farmers would increase their demand for medium- and
long-term credit, as they wish to rehabilitate their farms and expand their
production.
33.       Agricultural Inputs.  In recent years the input supply system has
suffered from a shortage of foreign exchange and the inefficiency of the
distribution system. Fertilizers and pesticides, the use of which has been
declining drastically, were supplied mainly by the Grenada Banana
Cooperative Society (GBCS).
34.       Marketin .  Grenada's traditional export crops (cocoa, bananas,
nutmeg and mace, and spices) are marketed by producers associations:
Grenada Cocoa Association (GCA); Grenada Banana Cooperative Society (CBCS);
Grenada Cooperative Nutmeg Association (GCNA); and the Minor Spices



- LI -
Organization. Despite management difficulties, most of these associations
are relatively efficient organizations and have most of the needed physical
facilities. On the other hand, the traditional domestic mar!teting system
of fresh fruits, vegetables and root crops (which are sold by farmers in
the village markets and by small traders in the town markets), suffer
overall from a lack of collection centers, of packing and storage
facilities, of accepted standards of sorting, grading and packing, of
market information, of transportation facilities, and trained personnel.
Finally, the Trinidad and Tobago market, an important outlet for Grenada's
fruit, vegetables and root crops, is serviced in an unorganized manner by
small individual traders. Two of the marketing organizations, the
Marketing and National Import Board (MNIB) and GBCS would participate in
the proposed project and are described briefly below.
35.       Marketing and National Import Board (MNIB).  MNIB was established
as a statutory body in 1973, later modified in 1979, with the primary
objectives of (a) marketing agricultural produce which are not marketed
through the producers associations, and (b) importing of foodstuffs and
agricultural inputs. In practice, in the domestic marketing oE
agricuLtural produce KNIB's activities are very Limited.  MNIB has tried to
enter the wholesale end of the domestic market by introducing forward
contracts to farmers with minimum guaranteed prices. However, MNIB has
never covered more than 15% of the domestic market. It has also exported
small quantities of vegetables and fruits. As there are no private sector
firms engaged in the wholesale trade of vegetables and fruits, the
Government has decided that MNIB should continue its activities. MNIB's
management, organization and facilities need to be strengthened to enable
it to carry out its functions effectively.
36.       Grenada Banana Cooperative Society (GBCS). GBCS is a growers'
society which was established in 1955 with the main objective of exporting
bananas. It has the power to fix growers' prices, to impose levies, and to
regulate the grading of bananas. GBCS purchases bananas from farmers,
treats, packs and exports them under contract through Geest Industries
Ltd. (a large shipping company which markets East Caribbean islands bananas
in the UK). It is a member of the Windward Islands Banana Growers
Association (WINBAN). While it is generally well organized, its financial
management needs strengthening.
37.       Training.  The Mirabeau AgricuLtural Training School, the only
one on the island, was established in 1970 by MOA with the objective of
training young people in farming. Practical training is carried out on the
school's 15-hectare farm. Although planned to provide a two-year study
program, the school provides only one-year programs at present. About 60
students are currently attending the school. The school buildings and
equipment, as well as the study programs need upgrading.
38.       Farm and Feeder Roads.  Grenada has a road network of about 300
km of primary roads, 219 km of secondary roads, 384 kmn of tertiary roads
and about 164 km of access roads to agricultural areas and farms. Of the
total of nearly 1,100 km, about half are paved. Most of the farm and
feeder roads in the secondary and tertiary systems are gravel surfaced.



- 12 -
Over the last decade, the network, especially in agricultural areas, has
deteriorated because of a lack of maintenance. As a result, motor vehicles
cannot travel many farm and feeder roads, and losses of perishable produce
are high. The Ministry of Communications, Works, Civil Aviation, Energy
and Public Utilities (MOCW) is responsible for all roads, but, because of
its limited budget, it has a very erratic record of road maintenance. As a
result, the MOA, in cooperation with MOCW, has formed rwo maintenance
units--Farm Roads, financed by the Government, and Feeder Roads, financed
by CDB. However, this duplication has resulted in a costly and inefficient
maintenance program.  The Government has decided that MOCW reassume its
role as the sole organization responsible for road maintenance.
39.       Government Agricultural Policy.  While the PRG advocated tight
control and a centrally planned economy, the present Government supports a               b
free market economy, more private sector involvement and less government
intervention in economic and commercial activities. The liberalization of
the economy, initiated by the Interim Administration and continued by the
present Government, extends to the agricultural sector. The prices of most
agricultural commodities are now freely established by market forces.
Similarly, subsidies on fertilizers and chemicals have been removed.
Export taxes on various agricultural exports are being re-evaluated; a
complete removal, however, would be difficult given the weak fiscal
situation. There are at present no specific market or price policy issues
outstanding. However, with a view to ensuring adequate production
incenti'es, it was agreed that the Government would exchange views
periodically with IDA on its policies relating to the agricultural sector
(Section 3.06 of the draft Credit Agreement). The main weaknesses of the
agricultural sector lie in the institutions that provide supporting
services: credit, extension and plant protection, marketing, training, and
farm and feeder road maintenance, and the inadequate availability of basic
inputs because of a shortage of foreign exchange. The proposed project
would assist the Government In overcoming these weaknesses by addressing
the priority needs of the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       In 1982 the Government of Grenada requested IDA assistance for a
project to expand and promote production of traditional and nontraditional
crops. The Government asked the FAO/CP Investment Center to assist in
project preparation. Appraisal, which was delayed by the October 1983
events, took place in May 1984.  A report entitled  Staff Appraisal
Report--Grenada Agricultural Rehabilitation and Crop Diversification
Project (No. 5237-GRD, dated February 13, 1985) is being circulated
separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the
project and a description of special conditions of the proposed credit.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January/February, 1985. The
Grenada delegation was led by the Ronorable George Brizan, Minister of
Agriculture.



- 13 -
41.       Rationale for IDA Involvement and Project Objectives.  The main
reason for IDA's involvement in this project is to help the Government
strengthen the performance of one of the. most critical sectors,
agriculture, of the economy. The principal objectives of the project are
to: (a) rehabilitate crops and expand production and (b) promote the
marketing of crops for domestic consumption, export markets and local
agroindustries.
42.       Project Description.  The project -ould seek to achieve these
objectives over five years by:
(a) providing medium- and long-term credit to farmers and
agroindustries through GDB with CDB funding (with particular
emphasis on crops with good market prospects: bananas,
sugarcane, coconuts, coffee, and tropical fruits);
(b) upgrading and strengthening existing support services, including
the Agricuitural Extension Service, the Agricultural School, the
Plant Propagation Unit, the Plant Protection Unit and several
marketing organizations;
(c) assisting the agroindustrial sector through the provision of
financing for feasibility and marketing studies;
gd) establishing a farm and feeder road maintenance management system
and providing maintenance equipment and a materials/soils
laboratory.
These activities would be supported by training and technical assistance.
Project Features
43.       Agricultural Credit.  Credit funds would be provided through the
GDB to enable about 1,250 ha (see table below) to be developed by about 800
to 1,000 farmers, with an estimated on-farm investment of about US$2.2
million during the project implementation period. About 75% of this
amount, US$1.6 million, would be provided by the GDB in medium- and
long-term credit. In addition, a credit line of about US$0.3 million, also
financed by CDB, would be available to agroindustrial firms. A promotional
program to increase demand for credit would be initiated. Credits would
normally finance an average of 75% of the estimated investment costs,
excluding the cost of land, with a maximum of 80%. The maximum amount for
any single farm or agroindustry would be US$200,000. Depending on the
crop, medium-term loans for farmers would be for up to 5 years, including a
grace period for up to 2 years. Long-term loans would be for up to 10
years, with a grace period of up to 4 years. Loans to agroindustries would
be for up to 10 years, including a grace period of up to 3 years. GDB
would on-lend funds at a rate of 10.5% per annum, which would give the GDB
a spread of 6.5%. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Government. All subLoans would be appraised by the GDB, but subloans above
EC$l00,OOUO (US$37,000) woald require prior approval of the CDB.
Notification by CDB that all conditions precedent to the first disbursement
of the CDB loan have been fulfilled would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Rehabilitation    New Plantin
(hectares)        (hectare )
Bananas - Rainfed                          300
Bananas - Irrigoted                        100
Sugarcane                                  160               120
Coconuts                                   260               140
Coffee                                       -                16
Tropical Fruits
(avocados, mangoes and others)              -               144
Vegetables                                   -                10
Ornamental Plants and Cut Flowers            -                 2
Total                                 820               432
The above figures are indicative and should be considered as a framework
for the project and flexible guideline for its implementation.
44.       Upgrading of Support Services.  The proposea project would
provide necessary financing for construction, vehicles and equipment to the
MOA (Agricultural Extension Service, Plant Propagation Unit and Plant
Protection Unit), KNIB and GBCS (US$1.1 million). Equipment for the
Extension Service would also serve the Agricultural School. Vehicles for
the use of agricultural extension staff of MOA and MNIB would be leased to
the staff.
45.       Feeder/Farm Road Maintenance.  As part of the institutional
strengthening component of the project a maintenance management system and
a materials and soils laboratory would be developed with the assistance of
consultants and staffed by MOCW to provide planning and quality control for
the road maintenance program on Grenada. Funds and a limited amount of
equipment to be used for maintenance of about 160 km of feeder and farm
roads would also be provided as part of the project. Equipment operation,
planning, and maintenance would be a function of the Central Garage of
MOCW. The priorities for the feeder/farm road maintenance program would be
established jointly by MOA and MOCW, and MOCW would be responsible for all
maintenance work on the system.
46.       Studies and Technical Assistance.  The proposed project would
provide consultant services to carry out feasibility studies for the
upgrading and modernization of the sugar and coconut oil factories as well
as marketing studies for export crops such as vegetables, ornamental plants
and cut flowers. Also, studies would be carried out for the MNIB and GBCS
to review the management and organization of these agencies and to provide
guidelines for further improvement as well as a study on optimal resource
utilization on family-owned or operated farms. The study program, the
consultants carrying out the studies and the terms and conditions of the
consultant contracts would be subject to IDA approval. Two of these
studies, the feasibility studies for the sugar factory and the coconut oil



- 15 -
factory, would be completed and submitted to IDA for review by June 30,
1986. The recommendations of the studies under Part D(2) of Schedule 2 to
the draft Credit Agreement would be implemented in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.05 of the draft Credit
Agreement). In addition, the proposed project would finance a total of
about 124 man-months of technical assistance for the following purposes. A
Project Management Specialist (24 man-months) would provide assistance in
implementing the project; the Extension Service would be assisted in
extension methods and systems (24 man-months); a field agronomist would
*     assist the Plant Propagation Unit in expanding its capacity and the Plant
Protection Unit in reactivating their services (24 man-months). An
agricultural education specialist would assist the Agricultural School in
improving its study program (4 man-months). A marketing specialist would
assist MNIB in improving postharvest activities (24 man-months).
Management consultants would assist MNIB and GBCS in carrying out the
programs recommended by the management studies to strengthen their
operations (12 man-months). MOCW would receive assistance from a feeder
road engineer (9 man-months) and from a soil engineer (3 man-months).
Terms of reference for the consultants have been agreed.
47.       Training.  The proposed project would provide on the job training
mainly for extension agents, as well as short courses on various technical
subjects related to crop production and export marketing. In addition,
some overseas training would be provided in specific subjects. The
Extension Service would conduct short courses for farmers in various
agricultural subjects. Detailed annual training programs satisfactory to
IDA would be prepared and furnished to IDA not later than November 30 of
each year and awards for overseas training would be in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to IDA (Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the draft Credit
Agreement). The training program for 1985, the first project year, has
been agreed.
Project Implementation
48.       Coordination and Management.  MOA would have overall responsibi-
lity for the project, but would delegate authority for implementation to
other participating agencies and institutions. A Project Board of
Management (PMB), headed by the Minister of Agriculture, would constitute
the highest authority. Relevant government departments and the
participating agencies would be represented on the Board. The Project
Board of Hanagement would supervise two main areas: (a) the credit
component, under the direct responsibility of the GDB; and (b) all other
noncredit project activities, for which a newly established Project
Management Unit (PMU) of MOA would be responsible (Section 3.11 of the
draft Credit Agreement). The PHU would undertake day-to-day coordination
and administration and would receive support from various units in MOA as
well as from the other government units and agencies involved in the
proposed project. The establishment of the PMB and the PMU would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Credit
Agreement).
49.       Monitoring and Reporting.  A project monitoring system would be
established, to be operated by the presently inactive Project Monitoring
Section of MOA which would be reorganized and strengthened. It would



- 16 -
collect and analyze data on project achievements, alert the PMU on emerging
problems and provide information for the necessary planning. The various
agencies involved in the implementation of the project would provide
information to the PMU on a quarterly basis, which would be consolidated
into trimestral progress reports to MOA, CDB and IDA.
50.       Accounts and Audit.  Project accounts would be maintained for the
credit and the non-credit components of the proposed project. The
Constitution of Grenada provides that Government accounts be audited by the
OLfice of the State Auditor, an independent body responsible to
Parliament. However, as at present the State Auditor is not yet adequately
staffed, for the next few years the project accounts would be audited by an
accounting firm, who would qubmit audit reports within four months after
the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Credit Agreement).
51.       Cost Estimates.  The total project cost, based on May 1984 prices
over the five-year project period (1985-90), is estimated at US$7.9
million, including US$5.6 million in foreign exchange. The project will be
exempt from local taxes. Of the total project costs, 71% are investment
items and 29% are incremental recurrent costs. Physical contingencies for
the noncredit components vary from 5% to 12% and price contingencies for
the foreign costs of noncredit components were 8% for 1985 and 9% annually
for 1986 and after, and 8% annually for local costs.
52.       Financing.  The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million would
finance the noncredit components and would cover 63% of the total project
costs (92% of the total cost of the non-credit component). It would
finance US$4.4 million of the foreign cost and US$0.6 million of the local
cost. The CDB loan would finance the credit component and would cover 24%
of the total project costs (75% of the total cost of the credit component);
it would finance US$1.2 million of the foreign cost and US$0.7 million of
local costs. The Government would provide US$0.4 million (8% of the total
cost of the non-credit component) and participating farmers would
contribute US$0.6 million (25% of the total cost of the on-farm
investments) towards the local costs. In addition, agroindustrial firms
would contribute an as yet unspecified amount (to be determined by the
studies under the proposed project). The CDB loan to GDB would be within
the proposed CDB-consolidated line of credit to GDB, guaranteed by the
Government of Grenada. The loan would be for 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at 4% per annum interest and would be guaranteed by the
Government. About US$0.6 million of IDA funds would be re-lent to MNIB and
US$0.2 million to GBCS. The relending would be for 10 years, including 3
years of grace, at the same interest rate set for the agricultural loans
(10.5%). The Government would bear the foreign exchange risks. It would
be a condition of credit effectiveness that the Government has entered into
onlending agreements satisfactory to IDA with MNIB and GBCS (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
53.       Procurement.  Equipment and vehicles with individual contract
values of US$50,000 or more would be purchased by the agencies responsible
for the various project components under international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Purchases of less than US$50,000,
but not exceeding US$600,000 in aggregate, could be made by international



- 17 -
or local shopping after obtaining at least 3 price quotations from inter-
national or local suppliers. Under the credit component to be funded by
the CDB, subborrowers would procure goods and services from local or
international suppliers under CDB's procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory. Civil works for an estimated total value of US$1.2 million
would be carried out partly by force account (about US$0.4 million) and
partly by local contractors engaged under local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures, which are satisfactory. The relatively small size of the civil
works makes it unlikely that non-Grenadian contractors would be willing to
compete for bids. However, they would not be excluded. Consultants for
technical assistance, studies and training at an estimated cost of US$1.8
million would be engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of
consultants. The following table summarizes the procurement arrangements
for the proposed project.
(US$'000)
-------   Procurement Method         --    Total
Project Element           ICB      ILS     LCB      Other      N.A.     Costs
Vehicles & Equipment    1,000    600          -         -         -     1,600
(1,000)  (600)       -          -        -    (1,600)
Civil Works                 -        -     800        400         -      1,200
-       -    (600)      (350)        -       (950)
Technical Assistance,
Studies and Training      -        -       -      1,800         -     1,800
(1,750)             (1,750)
Management, Operation
and Maintenance           -        -       -          -       811       811
_       _        _         -      (700)      (700)
On-Farm and Agroindus-
trial Investments       500      300       -          -    1,700      2,500
TOTAL              1,500      900     800      2,200    2,511      7,911
(1,000)   (600)   (600)   (2,100)    (700)   (5,000)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
54.       Disbursements.  It is estimated that the proposed IDA credit
would be disbursed over a period of five years. Disbursements would be
made against the following categories of expenditures (Schedule 1 of the
draft Credit Agreement):
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for
vehicles and equipment.
(b)  100% of total expenditures for studies, technical assistance and
training;
(c)  80% of total expenditures for civil works, project operating
costs and feeder road maintenance costs;



- 18 -
td) A percentage declining from 90% to 50% of incremental operating
costs; and
(e) 100% of the initial special account deposit.
Disbursement would be carried out under full documentation, except for:
incremental operating costs; works carried out by force account; and
expenditures against _ontracts for goods and services with a value of
US$10,000 or less.
55.       Benefits.  The proposed project would directly assist some 800 to
1,000 farmers, about 10-12% of the entire farm population, who would be
receiving credit for rehabilitating and expanding their crop production on
about 1,250 ha.  The majority of the other farmers would also benefit from
the project by receiving improved services (extension services, and
marketing) and by utilizing better roads and marketing facilities. In
addition, the proposed project would have a beneficial effect on the
balance of payments by increasing agricultural exports and reducing
imports. The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects
of the project is estimated at 21%. The activities included in this rate
of return calculation cover 65% of total project costs. Sensitivity
analyses indicated that the project is sensitive to economic changes;
however, with a combination of moderately adverse assumptions, the rate of
return would still be around 12%.
56.       Risks.  The project faces moderate natural, technological,
institutional and marketing risks which are common for this kind of
project. Natural hazards include weather conditions, pests and diseases.
While not much can be done against hurricane damage, safeguards would be
taken against other natural risks by soil conservation measures and the
strengthening of the Plant Protection Unit. Measures to reduce the other
risks include the provision of technical assistance to strengthen the
various institutions and diversifying the cropping pattern to include crops
for industrial processing with a strong local market.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Grenada and the
Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex III. The following would be additional
conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Credit Agreement):
(i) The meeting of the conditions precedent to the first disbursement
of the CDB loan;
(ii) the signing of on-lending agreements between the Government and
MNIB and GBCS;
(iii) the establishment of the PMB and the PMU.



- 19 -
58.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 12, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                       Annex I
-20-                             ~~~~~(Page 1 of 5)
GRENADA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHST
aKrA                                RCIRCII CROUPS (RIONID AVAs) L
HDST                    (HDST RECCYTS USATI)
REE UT           MIDDLE INCON           NMIcDLE
196d-b-    l97i!! rIsTATSa         IAT. ANSICA & CAR
A-A (IIaD SQ. -)
TOTAL                                 0.3        0.3       0.3
AGRICULTURAL                          0.2        0.2       0.2
CW MEI CAPITA (US$)                    170.0      130.0    760.0             2108.6                   2345.3
TCY COUNSUI   PR CAPITA
(KILOCGAS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         79.0      152.0    163.0              995.5                   1122.6
POPULflTON AM VITAL STmSUCS
POPULATIONHIID-EAR (THOUSANDS)       90.0       94.0     92.0 /
URBAN POPULATION ct oF TOTAL)        14.6         ..     63.0 IC            66.5                     46.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEA  2000 (HILL)                           0.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                             0.2
POPULATION RNNTWI                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       264.7      276.5    329.4               35.7                     62.9
PER SQ. KM. AGI. IAND             500.0      552.9    658.8               92.4                    158.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                            ..         ..      35.5              39.9                     31.6
15-64 URS                            ..         ..      58.1              56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                         ..         ..       6.1               6.1                      7.1
POPULATION CROTrH RATE (2)
TOTAL                               1.7 /d     0.4 /d   1.5 /d             2.4                      1.6
URMA                                 ..         ..        ..               3.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         43.3       29.0      25.2              31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THWS)          10.9        7.9       6-R               8.1                      8.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                .         2.2       1.4               2.0                      1.6
FAMILY FLAMN INC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)            .
MUSRS (2 OF MARRIED WSN)             ..         ..        ..              40.3
yaDn smzTno
INDEX OF oOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          ..      105.0     90.0 /a           114.3                    145
PER CAPITA SWPILY OF
CALORIES (2 OF RPQUIREMENTS)       81.0       95.0      86.0             110.6                    128.6
PROTEINS (MAS PErR DAT)            50.0       61.0      57.0              67.3                    S9.7
OF UHICH ANIIAL AND PULSE        26.0       32.0      35.0 /a           34.1                     34.5
CHILD (AeS 1-4) DEATH RATE            7.3        1.2      0.2 If             5.7                      5.2
mLIT
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        62.6       67.0     69.0 /f            64.7                    67.4
INFANT IORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        77.9       32.6      15.47!           60.6                     54.2
ACCESS rO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                                *-       60.0      63.0 A            65.4
URBAN                                        too 100.0     100.0  j       78.1
RURAL                                *        47.0      77.0              46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION,
TOTAL                                ..         ..        ..              52.9
URBAN                                ..         ..      36.0 A            67.0                      ..
RURAL                                ..       95.0    100.0               24.5
POPULATION PER PltSICIAN           4500.0     2910.0   4340.0 Ic          1917.7                  1065.8
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON             650.0 lh   610.0   1570.0 W            815.6                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             160.0      140.0    170.0 Ic           367.2                    326.3
URBAN                                      .               .             411.5                    201.5
RURAL                                ..         .         ..            2636.3
AEIIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED           ..         ..        ..              27.3                     20.0
IMOIND
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSENOLD
TOTAL                               4.5         ..
URB                                  ..         ..        ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
AVERACI NO. OF PERSONS/ROOG
TOTAL                               1.7         ..        .
URN                                  ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINtS)
TOTAL                                ..       39.0      73.0 /c
Um                                   ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..



-21 -                                          Annex I
(Page 2 of 5)
-4                      - UOCUL ZN2CA?O9J Dft AIgh
ONINADA                               RUPIRENCBUU 1P6 (WCWKTID AVZAOEU) 
MOST                      (MuI? UCINT EISAT) Jb
1960Lb      IMM  uITcX                lXDDLW ICOME C          MIDDLE INOE
II6e   9lea   TDIA'rTL  LAT. ARCA   CAR        EUROPE
ADJUITtD UIROLU T  ATIOU
PRIAU!i   TOTAL                     159.O       148.0    IO.O IL             103.4                     101.1
KALE                     139.0       19.0      114.0 1[ lO6t3                               103.5
IRKL                     139.0       147.0    102.0 L             104.3                      96.7
IECONDUTI TOTAL                      17.0        28.    *0 I5.0               43.2                      59.1
FALB                      15.0        30.e      41.0               42.3                      66.9
PUI                       19.0        26.0      49.0               44.5                      30.6
VOCATIONAL (2 07 SECONDAR)                         24.1         .               33.6                      21.6
PUPIL-TEACUR EATIO
PRIHM                                41.0        36.0      32.0 1             30.1                      25.1
SEcoNDARY                            24.0        25.0      23.0               16.3                      20.5
ADULT LlTZRACt RATE  X)                            97.6        .                79.3                      75.6
PASEINOU CARI/TIOUAIID POP             14.4        39.4                         *6.0                      54.7
RADIO ICEIVESTINOU6AND Pop             30.0 A    139.6    316.2                225.6                     164.9
TV UCEIVES/TOU1AND POP                               ..                        107.2                     123.8
NIWSPAPE C -fDAILY CGENMAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              33.3        27.7        ..               63.3                      96 3
*IMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           3.3          .        9.3  L             2.S                       2.9
TOTAL LAOR rORCE (TIOUS)               27.7        29.0      36.0 A
FEMALC (PERCET)                      39.9        39.2      4Z.0 7&            23.2                      34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCE)                  40.0        33.4      23.5 7             31.5                      40.7
INDUSTRY (RERCN)                    21.0           .        24.1 7            23.9                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCNST)
TOTAL                                30.S        30.9      30.0 le            32.2                      42.9
MALE                                 40.3        40.8                         49.3                      54.7
FEMALE                               22.7        22.8        ..               15.2                      31.0
ECONICHC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.7       1.5 Ic             1.4                       0.9
IDcONZ DIBTEIUDTION
PECENT OF PRIVATE INICOM
RECEIVED IY
HIGHEST 55 OF HOUSEHOLDS                           ..
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 202 OF HUSEHOLDS                .
LOW oST 402 Of OISOS                   ..          . US.
ESTIMATED ASSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UlAN                                                                         288.2
RURAL                                                                        184.0
ESTEMATED RELATIVE POVERTT INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
JRBAN                                                                        5Z2.S
RURAL                                                                        372.4
ESTDMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTT INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN
RURAL
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N o T E S
/1   The grorp averages for each indicator are populatlon-eighted arithmetic  ans.  Coverage of countriee among the
indicators depends on availabillty of data and is not untfori.
lb   Unless otherwiae noted. -Dat& for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Host Recent Esrimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   1976; Id Due to migration populatlon growth rate is lower than rate of natural Increase;  fe 1977;  /f 1979;
/B 1975; lh 1962.
i/  Provisional data from 1981 population census; other population and per capita figures
have nor been revised.



-22                                                         Annex I
(Page 3 of 5)
mm.   a~~  it  -  an  MAILIN I-A..   AVAIIS?  jI    AAHWAA 6             g44  IIUlS 6.m          . 4 4 64   91gmS.m -m.n
..~.a.    -     .4  m   it   9LAAAAA a    ma.ll  9-     I_           SASS, SlIsM  on f  .. M   ALL6.IS  44  49. O      Ia. an.    .        mm..  mm.
.961..66m1.  a. m   mm    m  a  m.69      amitim  nI4 oft            m.mmEm               6.9lm.l           - m     nAo    693l      _%L na           ALL
M&  . .. I     Am  fimpo, a      ama       anm  -l,                  41"o III -Alf  an  -  a- ASAI666, 11 AM   WLA.IL                 I-.. --gAM an         -0
mma.t   a  at ..a  m~   aa.m.                            ~                             21694.46. mb. . lo ,    .aB.
19.. -  41664.6*.                                                                    524flW W-.L  ow.  9.69491 .   .q6.i      161             569,aU
SwIll ALLS .10  mim..~~.~.                                                      all414.86.181en..l..n    9  ..4.4f
INSO    &W      Ej      or   a..-  ann.- a. ooooo ILLWS 111.                                    IMAWO61. 66 p.9L1 AANI     4 ......       ALL AS   W~AS."t 6 .L.4
I"s             'nmm'..                                                                       :.ma   4 Wool*6  #i66.    am...I.  Som.....-"'A"  - .S -          y ....e
am. III..  -  Ia 469.1.                                            WV .6 ImI m  ~~~~~~AWLAdi. l%AA ..la.mm. -oLo544L*69        MIdAl.64    .a9
.1    _ WA                         =~~69i    16     AL 4.161 -aI4.    695.  I.8.  mal  6
*.in. .n.-W  WILo  -   ar          o" ..4f.  na.        - ALyE... Aq`Gn6aa. -L-.                                     96. a .. ASNAn .0.. 1.11.2An .a.n n
6969. La1                        Wn       "  41p66                    os.                       d ml     "al    '-   .~ -d                             - roost*45l
S.la.  d IM             IL-    d ..                VA41- aaW   .69   .6  h**
famine, Am.W  a4ftn   9   56..                                                                   n. I   -L...aali.n.
oooms      I411 -01.,. ILIA             ........ ...                                    Z              - Woloo....n                           9a.  ...a a
'" Wo  C-    = WA.        -I.--      LoooLs                                   6.  mLaal  .in              11.8..a..6.nn-in
W-    n  aoo.    alat.. elalt a.t ... m. I.,                             Ia.   a..ah,    nn..  lln ...n    an.na
144..l6tatI.  a. ....  I.,  6l.a661 11 A. na           -W                                                        -.n annt9   M1
am..   ma.,  tafSaa a.. o.A61   . 6.m              861  -"m'       a
.-Ma.  -  9m..  9.6*        . 6 .:am-`W-I an .96a 
hLooota... .1 ooI-6.iaya   0-41.11     e         1   aat.   .in.                         5..a9el   t.96
L99*fa   . _All  la*.an.n.a..   l.a    .a..                     an                    aan nA  .Slaa-a   .---                       .      l. 
511iaS  ~~- a    61n.9696I.                                                                - a  n6  a AW6 -e.a. an2=a -l a.6  .a.n   In6i 
a..-nS-.6 Iod.  .1   .daalaIa    n.a.n.6.                                                    6.96981.a..di
W      .  *      .l    a. 6*6- ..s   .fil    d  16.9.                                  ?...-LZiaInl. C.ladla                          ...ta_.a..
64la5* aniaa.. fy 695.-All,a   tat i. . L-M.6                                                       I---anta    ln
..aaa ...., am. aIM*  -   .68 *.a..                  --Aaa                           Aa..a.   .'a..a-.ala              la ..aald-....a
-C.lo"   l5418i5          ,la..-An. A. lam  Al.afa.a   ..aIamnsall                                                   la nla   6.IS169                   a
l.naa 14m ltIla..  69y.aaa    Cld..,li-a   -...a     :_n..m   ,) 
a..aea. mlgd  l I.  asi sel.       . asaa.~                                   dl  .5    mya.6.i6a.                ma.  la    l..n
laaIaat.6. 1160. i*lO. -   692 AsIa.                              aall n.11'q  16~ft.5 I.,11   la;*1a              .659         aa   a
l..-d4a  W1.                                                     Io y  I   *.    a.. aaa 5    ata.mla
.aL .a l.u., He  .l2l  ... - at             .  '.an.  aa._nW.1 a..
ors ..   5.M   1954          m    aa.Sl1           ta  9-n.-ll6l   a   l.a    na.a--lfaa -aln 
Wo ala aa.**  t. anI.- .a                                                          .la~l8   l   69.a5             ia.aa               .e n6
'984    4*alS6                68a.i                          I       49gsI  a*               ..e.1..              *a    ,.a.
r.fhfau. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ d                               Oft .sl  1....aew    m a    m   la.-;li6n.   44..n.    n...                     4    6             94*5
-69.                                                                                         9a.ln .a21496.4Caa5a   41.                             .ItI    a419
If44  t1aS-4C*            641   9anl .6b                    1I   sna                         6     ai'a  6  ie    .taa99   ln.a
.AiC1.a..    4.55   "                                      Ron 4.a      n..    aa  am.  I.     l6.     .  a4l..a.     ~.                     4      .a
A_t      L.                                                                                 4446 6_af..alIn.11521   6..a                         .  6.-M         4 m6
falL. ala..9 - a.a.4    Al.,a  ..6                 .6.a.  161.nlI.66



- 23 -
Annex I
(Page 4 of 5)
GRENADA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
US$ Million       Share of GDP at Current        Average Annual
at Current Prices          Market Pricesb/        Growth Rate 1978-82
1982             1978    1980    1982
L NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product            107.6              100.0   100.0   100.0               1.9
Agriculture a/                   19.6               30.0    27.5    25.4              -1.4
Industry    a/                    8.9                7.0     8.9    11.5              19.1
Services    a/                   48.6               63.0    63.6    63.1               2.9
Consumption                       110.4              103.4   106.2   102.6               1.5
Gross Domestic Investment           41.2               8.4    22.2    38.3              49.0
Exports GNFS                        38.3              53.6    43.8    35.6              -8.8
Iuports GNFS                       82.3               65.4    72.2    76.5               5.4
Gross National Savings               5.5                7.5    15.7     5.1             -5.2
As % of GDP               Preliminary
CENTRAL GOVEREtNr FINANCES                             1978    1980      1982             1983
Current Revenue                    27.6               26.0    24.8    25.0              26.0
Current Expenditure                26.5               28.3    25.7    24.1              25.4
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)          0.9               -2.3      -.9     0.9              0.6
Capital Expenditures               38.4                2.3    15.2    34.8              29.5
Foreign Finance (net)              25.6                2.2    16.2    23.3              23.5
US$ Million           Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
at current prices                 (at current prices)
1982              1978            1980            1982
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)        18.6             100.0           100.0           100.0
Cocoa                             4.6               43.0            38.9           24.9
Nutmeg/Mace                       3.9               27.4            22.1           21.1
Bananas                           3.4               20.0            23.6           18.3
Merchardise Imports (c.i.f.)        71.3
a/ At factor costs, 1980 prices
b/ Sectoral shares at constant factor costs
November 16, 1984



- 24 -                             Annex I
(Page 5 of 5)
GRENADA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXIERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at current prices)
1978       1979        1980       1981       1982        1983
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of Goods and NFS               34.2        40.4       37.7        38.4       38.7        39.3
Merchandise (f.o.b.)                 16.9        21.4       17.4        19.0       18.6        18.9
Non-factor Services (NFS)            17.3        19.0       20.3       1'.4        20.1       20.4
(of which : Travel)                14.4       15.3        16.5       13.9        141.2      14.6
Imports of Goods and NFS               41.7        53.8       62.1        70.3       81.1        79.8
Merchandise (c.i.f.)                 36.7        49.3       57.5        63.1       65.1        64.6
Non-factor Services (NFS)             5.0         4.5        4.6         7.2       16.0       15.2
Net Factor Services                     -           0.2       -2.3        -5.9       -2.3         0.7
Net Current Transfers                   7.0         8.0       13.4        14.6       11.0        10.8
Current Account Balance                -0.5        -5.2      -13.3       -23.2      -33.7      -29.0
Private Investment                      1.4         -          -           -          1.9         -
Net Public Disbursements                1.1         9.3       14.0        20.3       26.2        27.5
Commercial Banks (Net)                 -0.6        -1.1        1.1        -0.8        9.5       -2.2
Other Capital a,                       -1.6        -2.0       -1.4        -1.4       -3.6         1.4
Finarcirg                               1.3         0.8       -0.1         7.6       -0.3         2.3
IMF (Net)                             0.8         0.5        -           5.8       -0.9        1.2
ECCB borrowing (Net)                  0.2         0.4        0.3         0.8        0.8       -0.5
Government foreign assets             0.3        -0.1        -0.4        1.0       -0.2        -0.1
(increase -)
Arrears                                                                                           1.7
EXTERNAL DEBT & DEBT SERVICE (USS THOUSANDS)
Outstanding Debt at end of period  10283.0    14072.0    14381.0    26242.0    33744.0    48352.0
(of which:  IMF)                  3314.0     3789.0      2824.0     8264.0      6924.0     7667.0
Debt Service Payment                 1098.0      1846.0     1627.0      1467.0     2409.0     1865.0
Amortization                        715.0      1451.0     1156.0       832.0     1505.0      654.0
(of which:  DIF)                       -     1195.0       680.0      146.0      908.0        84.0
Interest                            383.0       395.0      471.0       635.0      904.0     1211.0
(of which:  IMF)                    96.0      111.0       250.0      485.0       431.0      269.0
Total Debt Outstanding/GDP (%)         16.1        18.4        16.7       26.2       30.6        41.7
Total Debt Service/Exports
of GNFS (%)                         3.2         4.6        4.3         3.8        6.2        -
a/ Includes errors and omissions
November 16, 1984



- 25 -
Annex II
(Page 1 of 1)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GRENADA
A.        Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1984
None
B.        Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1984
None



- 26 -
Annex III
(Page 1 of 2)
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND CROP DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 4 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Ministry of
Agriculture and assisted by FAO/CP.
tc) Date of first presentation to IDA, and date of first IDA mission
to consider the project: March 1983.
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission: May 1984.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations: February 1, 1985.
Cf) Planned date of effectiveness: July, 1985.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Ca)  The Government would exchange views periodically with IDA on its
policies related to the agricultural sector (paragraph 39);
(b) Cars for extension staff of MOA and MNIB would be leased to such
staff (paragraph 44);
(c) Prior to carrying out each study, a detailed study program would
be furnished to IDA. The first two studies (feasibility studies
of the sugar factory and the coconut oil factory) to be furnished
to IDA by June 30, 1986. In addition, the recommendations of the
studies would be implemented in accordance with timetables
satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 46);
(d) Annual training programs would be prepared and furnished to IDA
by November 30 of each year and awards for overseas fellowships
would be in accordance with criteria satisfactory to IDA
(paragraph 47);



- 27 -
Annex III
(Page 2 of 2)
(e) The following would be additional conditicas of credit
effectiveness:
(i)    the meeting of the conditions precedent to the first
disbursement of the CDB loan (paragraph 43);
(ii)   the signing of on-lending agreements between the Govern-
ment and MNIB and GBCS (paragraph 52); and
(iii)   the establishment of the PMB and the PMU (paragraph 48).
f



IBRD 18410
o10WW                           81046                          o*i0w
GRENADA
ELEVATION IPFat  AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION  AND  CROP
DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
29W and Om
______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SaSitmr
100
Mein Roadt                          J'
a-- Pariah BSundawi                                                      , - .-- .       0 0
120t0N   ~ 0   Main Towvna
Amp AnnuAl Rainfell
in inhh.
3  + i W  CIIb                                    n~~~~IIgb~ 
7-~~~~~-
0         3  i                                                  -;mis
2 .1ZX'N    a        -. ,                                                                             12.   SN-
.T .  G E O R G   'S  "  .  0   1   2   3
-12OWN                                                                                r
o   1    2    3 s                  
61050w                         61045'W                          61040W
AUGUST 1984



IBRD 18411
GRENADA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND CROP
DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
PRESENT LAND USE
LAND uSL
Naturol Form,?
Tr. Crops
coconutfs
L.~. - Annual Crops                                                                                      i
Grazing Land
Urban and Suburban
t ,Tourism                                                                                        -1VtI
-I '-i0                                                                                                           ,,,                       rio
-.
- - -  Internas.onal Baundreem
6" 35-
//   110
//1Z'
'rG5      CoCarr.acou
ST GEC CGES                                                                                                              Sr 
GRfNADA
i.''_"-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                4 ':0
'A     r 1^ N,(*
-.~~~ I - '.-_.- -- -2                                          'Aciv * -*00*
O '4'                                           ^ _                           J                           nN4
-  -  I                                                 ALIGUST 1964.1 ~ '5  sc






