FFHICA             CREDIT NUMBER 1558 GRD
DOCUMPENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Rehabilitation and Crop
Diversification Project)
between
GRENADA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1558 GRD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1985, between
GRENADA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caribbean
Development Bank (hereinafter called CDB) a loan (hereinafter
called the CDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to one million nine
hundred thousand dollars ($1,900,000) to assist in the financing
of Part A of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the CDB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and CDB; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOA"   means  the  Ministry   of  Agriculture,  Lands,
Forestry, Fisheries and Tourism of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b) "GBCS" means the Grenada Banana Cooperative Society, an
entity organized and operating under Ordinance No. 57, dated
March 16, 1955, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c) "MNIB" means the Marketing and National Importing
Board, an entity organized and operating under Act No. 40, dated
May 23, 1974 as amended by People's Law No. 69, dated August 30,
1979;
(d) "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance, Trade and Planning
of the Borrower;
(e) "MOCW" means the Ministry of Communications, Works,
Civil Aviation, Energy and Public Utilities of the Borrower;
(f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g) "East Caribbean Dollar" means the currency of the
Borrower;
(h) "Project Board of Management" means the entity referred
to in Section 3.11 (a) of this Agreement; and
(i) "Project Management Unit" means the entity referred to
in Section 3.11 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The   Association  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Cre-
dit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts B, C, D
and E of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special
account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Pro-
ject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1995, and ending October 15,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿-4-
on October 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Minister of the Borrower at the time res-
ponsible for agriculture is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry or shall cause the
Grenada Development Bank to carry out Part A of the Project and
shall carry out Parts B (1) through (6), C, D and E of the Pro-
ject through MOA and Part B (7) of the Project through MOCW, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of assisting the Borrower in carrying
out Part B (5) and B (6) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter
into contracts, satisfactory to the Association, with MNIB and
GBCS, respectively, such contracts to include, inter alia, terms
and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the contracts referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
such contracts or any provisions thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts C, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ


﻿-5-
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
constrLction sites included in such Parts of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,


﻿the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05 (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1986, prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association for its review and
comments the feasibility studies referred to in Part D (1) of the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare, under terms of refer-
ence and in accordance with timetables satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association for its review and
comments the studies referred to in Part D (2) of the Project;
and (ii) carry or cause to be carried out the recommendations of
such studies in a manner and in accordance with timetables satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association in March of each year, starting in March 1986, on the
Borrower's policies in the agricultural sector.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall adequately maintain all
facilities constructed or rehabilitated under, and any equipment
and vehicles included, in the Project, and shall make all neces-
sary renewals and repairs thereof to be made in accordance with
appropriate technical and engineering practices.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall transfer or cause to be
transferred cars referred to in Part B (1) (d) and (5) (c) of the
Project to relevant agricultural extension staff of MOA and
marketing staff of MNIB under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿-7-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, not later than Novem-
ber 30, of each year, furnish to the Association for its
approval, training programs under Part E of the Project.
Section  3.10. The Borrower shall award fellowships for
overseas training activities under Part E (2) of the Project to
suitably qualified candidates in accordance with criteria for
selection of such candidates, for the award of such fellowships
-and for the designation of institutions for such training, satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall maintain: (a) the Project
Board of Management under the coordination    of the Minister of
the Borrower at the time responsible for agriculture and consis-
ting, inter alia, of one representative each of MOCW, MNIB, the
Grenada Development Bank, GBCS, MOF and the Project Management
Unit, to provide coordination and policy guidance for the Pro-
ject; and (b) the Project Management Unit, whose composition
shall be satisfactory to the Association, to provide supervision
for the Project and other responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts B, C,
D and E of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation   to the   foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account and
the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Sec-
tion for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the Special Account and the
accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDB Loan or any other loan or
grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project ehall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor; or
(B) the CDB Loan or any other such loan shall
have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction


﻿-9-
of the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination   or  prematuring  is  not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of subparag-, 4ph (ii) of that para-
graph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Association has been notified by CDB that all con-
ditions precedent to the first disbursement of the CDB Loan,
except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been ful-
filled;
(b) the Borrower has entered into the contracts referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance with the
provisions of such Section; and
(c) the Borrower has established the entities referred   to
in Section 3.11 of this Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions of such Section.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the contracts referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement have been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower, MNIB and GBCS, and are legally bind-
ing upon the Borrower, MNIB and GBCS in accordance with their
respective terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date (YePfXA'Lr/    " ,          is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.01 and 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty  years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance, Trade and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
5ection 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Trade
and Planning
St. Weorge's
Grenada
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                             320423
St. George's
Grenada
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respeztive names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
GRENADA
'By //37c~yC            ~    lT
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B y  I0 iJ-W7L/6i
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works under                600,000         80%
Part B (1), (2),
(3), (4), and (5)
the Project
(2) Maintenance under          500,000         80%
Part B (7)(b) of
the Project
(3) Vehicles and equip-      1,000,000          100% of foreign
ment under Part B                          expenditures and
of the Project                             90% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Consultants' ser-        1,085,000         100%
vices and training
under Parts C, D
and E of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Incremental operating      560,000          (i) 90% until
c.osts                                     the aggregate
amount of dis-
bursements under
this Category
reaches the
equivalent of
SDR 240,000;
(ii) 70% there-
after until such
aggregate amount
reaches the
equivalent of
SDR 240,000;
and (iii) 50%
thereafter until
such aggregate
amount reaches
the equivalent
of SDR 80,000
(6) Special Account            500,000          Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                755,000
TOTAL              5,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency other than that of the Borrower for goods or ser-.
vices supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;


﻿- 14 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
curren('y of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
(c) the term "incremental operating costs" means the aggre-
gate supplemental operating and maintenance expenditures (exclud-
ing expenditures for the staff salaries) incurred by MOA, MOCW,
GBCS and MNIB to the extent such expenditures were generated by
the activities implemented by each of such entities under the
Project.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or sup-
ply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-ower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemention-
ed policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 15 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) rehabilitate and
expand the production of agricultural crops of the Borrower; and
(b) promote marketing of such crops.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Credit
(1) Provision of medium-term and long-term credits to indi-
vidual farmers for the rehabilitation and expansion of agricul-
tural crops, including bananas, sugarcane, coconuts, coffee, tro-
pical fruits, vegetables, and ornamental plants and cut flowers.
(2) Provision of medium-term and long-term credits to
agro-industries for the acquisition and rehabilitation of the
agricultural equipment.
Part B:   Infrastructure Facilities
(1) MOA:
(a) construction of three municipal markets; and
(b) upgrading of the Grenville harbour jetty, includ-
ing construction of a loading shed.
(2) Agricultural Extension Service of MOA:
(a) construction of an information center and a field
extension office;
(b) rehabilitation and upgrading of three field exten-
sion offices;
(c) acquisition and utilization of a minibus;
(d) acquisition and utilization of about 29 four-wheel
drive cars; and


﻿- 17 -
(e) acquisition and utilization of instructional and
audiovisual equipment.
(3) Plant Propagation Unit of MOA:
(a) construction of a storage shed; and
(b) acquisition and utilization of a 5-ton truck, 2
four-wheel drive cars and miscellaneous equipment
and tools.
(4) Plant Protection Unit of MOA:
(a) construction of a quarantine building; and
(b) acquisition and utilization of a four-wheel drive
car and miscellaneous plant protection equipment.
(5) MNIB:
(a) construction of 2 agricultural crops collection
centers and a central storage with a cold storage
room;
(b) acquisition and utilization of two 5-ton trucks, a
generator and equipment for packing and storage
handling; and
(c) acquisition and utilization of 2 four-wheel drive
cars.
(6) GBCS:
Acquisition and utilization of 2 trailer units, 3
four-wheel drive cars, about 4 forklifts, about 10 mist
blowers, about 5 conveyors, a microcomputer including
related equipment and software, and a radio-telephone
syste.Am equipment.
(7)   MOCW:
(a)  acquisition and utilization of about five 5-ton
trucks, about 4 four-wheel drive cars, one motor-
grader, one loader, one roller, 2 compactors, one
rubber wheeled roller, about 4 dumpers and equip-
ment for soil and materials laboratory; and


﻿- 18 -
(b) maintenance of about 160 kilometers of feeder and
farm roads.
Part C:   Institutional Building
Strengthening of the managerial and operational capabilities
of MOA, MOCW, GBCS and MNIB through the provision of technical
assistance thereto.
Part D:   Studies
(1) Carrying out feasibility studies on:
(a) rehabilitation and upgrading of the Grenada Sugar
Factory, Ltd; and
(b) renewal and upgrading of the machinery and equip-
ment at the TEMPE Manufacturing Company Ltd.
(2) Carrying out studies on:
(a) management organization requirements of MNIB;
(b) management organization requirements of GBCS;
(c) marketing of export crops including, in particu-
lar, non-traditional crops; and
(d) optimal resource utilization on family-owned or
operated farms.
Part E:   Training
(1)   Carrying out a program of in-service training for
extension agents, agricultural technicians and other agricultural
specialists.
(2) Carrying out a program of overseas training for exten-
sion agents, agricultural technicians and other agricultural
specialists.
(3) Carrying out a training program for farmers.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for works, excluding works under Part B (7)(b) of
the Project, may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with local procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for works under Part B (7)(b) of the Project may
be carried out by the Borrower through the use of force account.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each, but in the aggregate
not to exceed the equivalent of six hundred thousand dollars
($600,000) may be awarded through negotiated purchases from
established and reliable suppliers, provided, however, that quo-
tations from at least three of such suppliers from the countries
eligible under the Guidelines are obtained and evaluated.
C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 20 -
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts B, C, D and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories
(1) through (5) in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusive-
ly for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory  to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 22 -
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Cre-
dit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (5), and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justi-
fied by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) through (5) for Parts B,
C, D and E of the Project, minus the amount of
any outstanding qualified agreement to reimburse
made by the Association and of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Associa-
tion pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Con-
ditions with respect to Parts B, C, D and E of the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) through (5) for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all


﻿- 23 -
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the contracts referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
The following terms and conditions shall be applicable in
respect of the proceeds of the Credit made available to MNIB and
GBCS in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement:
1.   The Borrower shall relend an amount in East Caribbean
Dollars to MNIB and GBCS equivalent to the amount of the proceeds
of the Credit required for carrying out Parts B.5 and B.6 of the
Project, respectively.
2.   MNIB and GBCS shall repay to the Borrower the proceeds of
the Credit so relent over a period of ten years, including there-
in three years grace period.
3.  MNIB and GBCS shall pay interest on the proceeds of the
Credit so relent al: the rate of ten and fifty hundredth per cent
(10 - 50/100%) per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time. Such interest shall be subject to
annual review between MNIB, GBCS and the Borrower, and, if need-
ed, adjusted promptly thereafter to ensure that such rate remains
positive in real terms, taking into account the prevailing infla-
tion rate, market conditions and operating costs, all in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   The proceeds of the Credit so relent shall be used by MNIB
and GBCS exclusively for the purposes of carrying out Parts B.5
and B.6 of the Project, respectively.
5.   MNIB and GBCS shall undertake to carry out the recommenda-
tions of the studies referred to under Part D (2) (a) and (b) of
the Project, respectively, in terms satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


