Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4813-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OP SDR 28.9 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL A"RICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
May 17, 1988
This docment has a resticted distibution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonnrmn  of
their official dties. Its contents may not otherwie be discloed widhot World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FE 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating. The rate of
CFAF 275 to the US dollar is used for the economic projections
beginning 1988.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      African Development Fund
BARC      Bureau d'Affretement de la R4publique Centrafricaine
BCAD      Banque Centrafricaine de DepOt
BIAO      Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de lOuest
CAADE     Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat
CAISTAB   Caisse de Stabilisation et de P4rdquation des Produits Agricoles
DGFP      Direction G4n4rale de la Ponction Publique
ENERCA    Soci4t4 d'Energie Centrafricaine
MRD       Ministere du D6veloppement Rural
OCPT      Office Central des Postes et T4lecommunications
OCSS      Office Centrafricain de S4curit4 Sociale
SEGA      Societe d'Etat de Gestion des Abattoirs
SICPAD    Societe Centrafricaine des Produits Alimentaires et Ddrives
SIRIRI    Insurance company
SNE       Societ6 Nationale des Eaux
SOCADA    Socidt6 Centrafricaine de D6veloppement Agricole
UCATEX    The textile company
UDEAC     Union Douanibre des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT SUMKARY   ...  4.......................                          i
PART I - THE ECONOMY   ................... ...........
Background   ................  ...                  .              1
The Present Situation   ......       .................. ..         6
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM             .........       7
PART III - THE SAL PROGRAM 1988-1990   ................                 10
A.   Macroeconomic Management   ..........   * .......             10
Public Investment Programming   ....   .........             10
Trade and Incentives Policy    ......   .........            12
Public Resource Management             ...............       14
B.  Civil Service Reform   ..#  ....................               18
C.  Parastatal Sector Reform   ...         ................        20
D.  Agriculture          .................. .... .. ........       22
E. Forestry ............                                           25
F.  Mining      .... ...............  ................             25
PART IV - ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL IMPACT AND THE SOCIAL
DIMENSION OF ADJUSTMENT       ..................             26
Projected Medium-Term Prospects for Growth   ......                26
External Financing Requirements   ...# ...........                 31
The Social Impact of Adjustment   ................                33
Risks   .................................. **........... ...       34
PART V - THE PROPOSED CREDIT   .......................                  36
Financing   .....,...0......0.....                                 36
Monitorable Actions   ........ .     .... ........ . ......        36
Management and Administration of the SAL Program                   38
Coordination with the IMF   ....................                   38
Procurement, Disbursements, and Retroactive
Financing                 ....... .......                       39
PART VI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY   ........                 39
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION    ....................                       41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othwise be disclosed whout World Bank authorltlon.



- At -
ANNEUS
I.   Definitions of Social Indicators
II.  Economic Indicator - Base Case Scenario
III. Supplementary Loan Data
IV.  Status of Bank Group Operations in the Central
African Repv.blic
V.  Development Policy Statement
VI.  Policy Matrix
MAP
IBID 18095R



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrowers      Central African Republic
Amounts        IDA Credits  SDR 28.9 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms;         Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Co-financing: African Development Funds  UIA 20 million (US$25 million
equivalent)
Program
Descriptions   The Credit would support the second phase of the
Government's adjustment program for addressing key
macroeconomic and sectoral issues facing the CAR over the
medium term. The objective of the program is to achieve a
real GDP growth rate of 4 percent by 1991 while at the same
time improving the major macroeconomic balances. The basic
elements of the program strategy ares (a) promotion of
agricultural-led growth based on comparative advantage and a
progressive opening of the economy to market forces;
(b) retrenchment of the public sector and stimulation of
private sector initiatives; and (c) mobilization of
sufficient financial resources to support the program on
concessional terms and in directions dictated by the
priorities defined in the plan. This strategy will be
implemented through a coherent set of policies for
macroeconomic management, agriculture, mining, public
enterprises and through the implementation of a far reaching
civil service reform. The program is described in detail in
the Government's Statement of Development Policy (Annex V)
and the action program is detailed in the Policy Matrix
(Annex VI). The foreign exchange provided under the Credit
would be used to finance essential imports.
Risks:         The miain risks associated with the proposed operation are
the uncertainty of world prices for the main export
commodities, a weaker thau expected response from the
private sector, and the possibility of slow implementation
of the reform as a result of social pressures, and
Government's weak implementation capacity.
Estimated
Disbursements: The Credit would be available for disbursement in two equal
tranches of US$20 million equivalent. The first tranche
would be available upon effectiveness, and the second upon
satisfactory progress in implementing the program. A
performance review would be carried out in March 1989.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Report and Recommendation of the President
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Development Credit of SDR 28.9 million
to the Central African Republic for a
_Satond Structural Adjustment Program
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 28.9 million (US$40 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the Central African Republic to support the
Government's Secon'4 Structural Adjustment Program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum (Report no. 5332-CA) was distributed to
the Board in August 1985. The report which follows is based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the latter economic memorandum as well
as the findings of recent economic missions. Updated country data appear
in Annex II.
Background
3.        The Central African Republic (CAR) is a landlocked country, the
size of France, in the heart of the continent with an estimated population
of some 2.6 million in 1985. With a per-capita GNP of only US$290 in 1986,
it belongs to the group of least developed countries. Agriculture,
including forestry, is the mainstay of the economy accounting for
42 percent of GDP and 56 percent of commodity exports and is estimated to
occupy four-fifths of the population. Mining, manufacturing and utilities
(15 percent), construction (3 percent), and services (40 percent) account
for the balance of GDP.
4.        CAR's remoteness from the sea, large area and low population
density (4 per km2) make transportation difficult and costly. The
transport system is based on a network of about 9,000 km of classified
national and regional roads and about 11,000 km of unclassified rural roads
and tracks. The major external links from Bangui are the road or roadirail
links through Cameroon to Douala (1,650 and 1,150 km, respectively) and the
river/rail route through Congo to Pointe Noire (1,800 km). Each route
suffers from major seasonal constraints; the road routes are often
impassable in the rainy season while river traffic is not possible in the
dry season because of low water levels.
5.        Serious mismanagement of the economy in the 19709 during the
Bokassa regime resulted in a decline of output and income per capita
between 1977 and 1982. Falling real producer prices for cash crops,
excessive state intervention in virtually all economic activities,
including the food crop sector, inefficient rural development agencies, and
rapidly deteriorating extension services and rural roads coupled with



adverse external factors led to a drop in agricultural production.
Moreover, unsound public investments, excessive expansion of the civil
service, creation of unviable public enterprises and expensive borrowing
led to major imbalances which were financed through the accumulation of
internal and external arrears. This provoked substantial declines of both
official aid and private foreign investment, as donors and investors lost
confidence in the economic policies of the Central African authorities.
6.        Sustained attempts at promoting economic recovery began only in
1982 under the leadership of President Kolingba. The Government's
stabilization and recovery efforts have now been sustained for six years
and have benefited from the support of bilateral donors principally France,
and international organizations, including the Bank and the IMF. During
this period two 12-month IMF standbys (1983 and 1984) were followed by an
l8-month standby covering the period July 1985 - December 1986. The Paris
Club granted substantial debt relief to the CAR in November 1985. A
three-year PFP was presented to the Bank and the Fund in mid-1987, and the
IMF Board approved a SAF Credit and a new 12-month standby for the period
starting June 1987. No drawings were made under the standby; because of the
accumulation of external arrears, the arrangement became inoperative at the
end of 1987. A review of the PFP is currently underway, and a second year
SAY is expected to be presented to the IMF Board in July 1988. The
economic dialogue between the Government and the Bank has improved steadily
over the past five years through policy discussions in the context of the
preparation and implementation of projects in key sectors (cotton,
livestock, education, transport, etc.), the CEM and the preparation and
participation in the June 1987 UNDP-sponsored donors' conference. This
improvement culminated in the support provided by the Bank to the
Government's adjustment program through SAL I and the Cotton Sector
Adjustment Credit, approved in August 1986 and July 1987 respectively.
7.        Between 1982 and 1986 the Government concentrated their efforts
on promoting exports and agricultural production and on reducing fiscal
imbalances. During this period, cotton production and average yields more
than doubled while coffee production remained stagnant. Food crop
production also rose substantially in response to the Government's decision
to reduce its intervention in food crop marketing and to the reappearance
of consumer goods in rural areas. Officially recorded diL-ond and gold
exports increased following a substantial reduction in export taxes in
1983. However, between 1983 and 1986, total exports declined by
0.6 percent per annum in real terms because of the 1983184 drought and the
1986 drop in coffee and cotton production. Imports increased by some
0.6 percent per year in real terms during 1983-86, due mainly to sharp
increases in intermediate and capital goods imports in 1985 resulting from
an increase in public investment. As a result, the current account
deficit, excluding official transfers, deteriorated to 17 percent of GDP in
1986 from approximately 15 percent in 1983 and 1984. Between 1982 and
1986, despite the drought, real GDP and agricultural value added rose at
average annual rates of 1.2 and 1.0 percent respectively; on a per capita
basis this represented average annual declines of more than one percent.



- 3 -
8.        Budgetary policies have had mixed success.  The current budgetary
deficit (on a commitment basis and before grants) of 0.2 percent of GDP in
1982 was replaced by a surplus of 1.1 percent of GDP in 1985 (Tables 1 and
2) which, however, disappeared in 1986. Improved expenditure control
caused current expenditures to drop to 12 percent of GDP in 1986, or
2.5 percentage points lower than in 1982-83. A major achievement was the
containment of public sector wage and salary payments, which declined from
9.6 percent of GDP in 1982 to 7.5 percent of GDP in 1986, a cl:culative real
decline of about 13 percent.  Nevertheless, the puD'lic sect'r co,kntinues to
be burdened with disproportionately high person.ael costs (62 percent of
cuirrent expenditure in 1986) which severely limit the availability of
government resources for operational and development purposes. Despite
several tax increases, reductions in customs duty exemptions and
strengthened tax collection, budgetary revenues fell to 12 percent of GDP
in 1986 from 14.5 percent of GDP in 1982. The decline in export tax
receipts (from 1.6 percent of GDP in 1985 to 0.8 percent of GDP in 1986)
contributed to this decline, but the growth in indirect taxes -in
particular taxes on imports- also was disappointing.
9.        The budget is greatly dependent on foreign financing; in 1986
48 percent of total expenditures and 91 percent of the overall deficit were
financed by foreign resources. In 1986 debt service amounted to 24 percent
of total domestic revenue, or 3.9 percent of GDP, and at the end of the
year, outstanding external debt, excluding the IMF, amounted to
US$396 million, or 41.5 percent of estimated GDP. The November 1985
rescheduling provided debt relief of US$15.2 million for payments due
between July 1985 and December 1986. As a result, external debt service
obligations for 1985 and 1986 (including IMP repurchases), fell by about
one quarter to an average US$25 million and the debt service ratio amounted
to 15 percent. The deterioration of the fiscal situation did not cause
inflation to accelerate, largely because growth in bank credit to the
central Government is strictly limited by the operating rules of the BEAC
(Central Bank of Central African States). After increasing by 10 percent
in 1985, consumer prices rose by only 2 percent in 1986. The appreciation
of the local currency contributed to this development.



- 4 -
Table 1
Central African Republic
Basic Economic Data, 1984-87
1984      1985       1986     1987
Output and Prices
(change in percent over previous year)
Real GDP                             8.8       3.8        1.5        1.4
Real GDP per capita                  6.3       1.2       -1.2       -1.3
Consumer prices                      1.6      11.2        2.2.
(percent of GDP. unless otherwise specified)
Gross Investment                     9.0      12.9       12.2       10.8
Public Investment                    8.4      10.9       10.3        8.9
Budget
Domestic Revenue                    14.2      13.2       12.1       11.8
Grants                               5.3       5.1        5.1        6.1
Expenditure                         23.2      26.3       25.7       27.1
Current                          (13.3)    (12.1)    (12.1)    (13.1)
Net lending & Extrabudgetary    (--)        (0.7)      (0.9)      (1.9)
Development                       (9.9)    (13.5)    (12.7)    (12.1)
External Sector                (in billion CFAF, unless otherwise specified)
Exports (fob)                     50.3      58.7       44.9      39.2
Imports (c.i.f.)                -61.2      -99.8      -87.9     -80.9
Trade Balance                 -10.9      -41.0      -42.9     -41.7
Current Account Balance
(before official transfers)   -42.5       -56.4     -56.4      -64.5
Official transfers (net)          32.1      32.4       33.0      36.1
Current Account Balance          -10.5     -24.0      -23.4     -28.4
Current Account before
official transfersIGDP          15.2      -17.8      -17.0     -19.9
Current Account after
official transfers/GDP          -3.7       -7.6       -7.1      -8.8
Debt Service/Export of
goods and services
(incl. Fund)                    16.8       13.2      15.1       18.3



Table 2
Central Afrien Republic
Financtal Onerations of Centrol Government 1982-1987
1982     1988      1984      198S       198        1987
(CFAF billion) ----__
Total Revenue (before grants)        365.     36.6      89.6       41.7       40.1       38.1
o/w Fiscal Revenue                 28.3     29.2      33.1      37.0        87.1       38.5
Total Ex,enditure                    ...      ...       84.7       68.2       85.9       87.7
Current                            36.4    36.0       87.0      38.8        40.2       42.3
o/f  Wage  & Salaries             23.7     23.9      28.4      24.6        24.9       25.4
Net lending                        --      --         -          -          1.8        4.8
Development Expenditures          ...      ...       27.7      42.6        42.0       39.2
Current Account on Domestic Resource.
(tommitment basts)                  -0.6     -2.1       2.6       3.8      -0.1         -4.2
Overall Deficit
(commitment basis, aftor grants)    ...      ...       -10.6   -26.4      -29.0        -29.9
- -- (I n percent)
Current Account/GDP                  -0.2    -0.8       0.9        1.1         -         -1.8
Overall salcea/DP                    ...      ...      -3.8        -8.1       -8.5       -9.2
Revenue/COP                          14.6     14.5      14.2       13.2       12.1       11.8
Wages and Salaries/Domestic Revenie 66.2    65.6        59.2       68.3       62.0       66.7
Dobt Service / /Domestic Revenue      6.7     10.1      20.3       20.3       24.6       83.1 f
Wages and Salaries/COP                9.6      9.6       8.4        7.8        7.5        7.9
!/ Includes repurchases from the IMF.
k/ Scheduled debt service; effectively debt service actually paid was
19.9 percent of total rovenue and CFAF 4.4 blillon of external
arrears wore accumulated.



-6.
The Present Situation
10.       A solution to the structural problems that permeate the economy
and the return to sustainable income growth will be difficult. The balance
of payments is weak, domestic resource mobilization is deficient. domestic
savings are negative, and the investment program is heavily dependent on
foreign financing. Current budgetary expenditure remains dominated by wage
and debt service payments, depriving crucial sectors such as education and
health of adequate resources and causing sub-optimal utilization and
maintenance of infrastructure. In addition, the parastatal sector is
inefficient and the private sector small. These problems were compounded
in 1986 and 1967 by a sharp decline in the value of cotton and coffee
exports in dollar terms and an even greater decline in revenue in local
currency terms. These declines have had a wide impact on economic activity
in the modern sector and have undermined domestic resource mobilization,
making internal and external balance all the more difficult to achieve.
11.       The one third drop in the cotton export price and 43 percent drop
in coffee export prices, both in CFAF terms, between 1985 and 1987 combined
with the sharp drop in the export volume (39 percent for coffee and
33 percent for cotton) caused merchandise exports to decline from
CFAP 58.7 billion in 1985 to CFAF 39 billion in 1987. This in turn brought
the current account deficit to 19.8 percent of GDP (net of official
transfers) in 1987, which in part was financed by the accumulation of
CFAP 5 billion of arrears. The debt service ratio increased from
15.1 percent in 1986 (after debt relief) to 18.3 percent in 1987; an
increase which reflects both the weak export performance and the fact that
a large share of CAR external debt is denominated in the French franc which
has appreciated considerably vi8a A vi the dollar in which export prices
are expressed.
12.       The fall in CFAF terms of the world market price for CAR's major
agricultural exports in combination with the downward rigidity in
production cost has eroded the export competitiveness of CAR's main
agricultural commodity exports. At today's exchange rate, none are clearly
profitable except high quality "de coupe, tobacco. The cotton sector
incurs losses due only in part to the inefficient operations of the cotton
parastatal. The traditional coffee sector surplus turned into a deficit in
late 1986, while timber exports suffer from competition from Asian timber.
Palm oil production is in difficulty as it faces strong competition from
illegal imports from Zaire. The Government has financially supported the
cotton and coffee sectors, which have been accumulating large arrears with
the domestic banking system. Continued support may be needed over the next
two to three years to sustain this sector while structural reform takes
effect.
13.       The sharp drop in the export sector depressed econotic activity
and greatly contributed to the worsening of the fiscal situation. The
overall fiscal deficit rose to 9 percent of GDP because of a weakening in
the revenue performance and higher current expenditure, and despite an



- 7 -
increase in grants. Fiscal revenue fell to 10.4 percent of GDP from
11.2 percent in 1986; export tax receipts continued to fall and amounted
only to 0.1 perceat of GDP. The budgetary current account surplus (after
grants) fell to 4.8 percent of GDP ftom 5 percent in 1986; before grants
the current account moved from balance in 1986 to a deficit of 1.3 percent
in 1987. Resource mobilization continues to be difficult and greatly
constrains fiscal policy. Past efforts to raise revenue have led to
continued increases in tax rates, which in return have stimulated tax
evasion, most noticeable in the case of import taxation and diamond export
taxes. Customs administration is weak and complicated by long borders.
The worsening fiscal situation has led to increases in government debts
towards state enterprises (estimated at CFAP l.a billion on a net basis),
and to the inability of the Government to assist SOCADA, the agricultural
development corporation in charge of the cotton sector, in paying its
arrears to the banking sector. Because of unfavorable external
circumstances, subsidies amounting to 1.5 percent of GDP were required to
sustain incentives in the coffee and cotton sectors. As a result of the
lower than expected revenue, the performance criteria relating to arrears
for September and December (1987) established under the IMF standby were
not met. The wage bill is still excessive and shortages of materials and
supplies continue to hamper civil servants in the fulfillment of their
duties. Liquidity problems constantly plague the financial operations of
the Government.
14.       In 1987 real per capita income fell by about 1.5 percent due to
very unfavorable external circumstances. On the whole economic performance
in the past decade has been well below potential: GDP growth has remained
marginal, export growth limited, the balance of payments dependent on large
capital inflows, and domestic savings negative.
PART IT - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUS*'1ENT PROGRAM
15.       In a determined attempt to reverse the deteriorating trends in
the CAR economy, the Government launched the first phase of its medium-term
adjustment program in the second half of 1986 11 . The broad objective of
the program was to set the basis for achieving positive real growth while
containing the current account deficit within a sustainable limit. The
program emphasized an agricultural-led growth strategy based on comparative
advantage and the creation of . favorable environment for the private
sector through retrenchment of the public sector from productive sectors,
the liberalization of price and trade regimes and public investments in
support of productive activities.
1/   See report No. P-4377-CA.



- 8 -
16.       Taking account of the deteriorating external environment,
implementation of the first phase of the adjustment program, despite some
slippage, was judged satisfactory, and the Second Tranche of SAL I was
released in May 1987. The Government has shown considerable political will
in executing crucial components of the program. The major achievements of
SAL I cover five areas: first, the progressive liberalization of prices
and trade has taken place on schedule. Price controls remain for only a
limited number of basic necessities for which competition was not assured
when the program was put into place; import quotas were abolished and
licensing of import and export activity was replaced by a system of
declarations, and restrictions Gn the marketing of local produce were
reduced; second, current expenditure growth was curtailed in agreement with
IMF targets mainly by tight controls on the wage bill through the strict
implementation of the 1" for 30 rule which specifies that 1 CFAF of new
recruitment requires 3 CFAF of wage bill cuts; the 1987 budget
incorporated, for the first time, all current expenditure and revenue as
well as domestic counterpart foreign-financed investment outlays and
on-lending, thereby permitting a better analysis and control of the
financial transactions of the central Government; consistent with the
provision of the IMF and SAL I programs, no new non-concessional debt was
contracted; third, while hampered by a limited data base and weak
administrative capacity, progress was made towards rationalization of the
parapublic sector; no new parapublic enterprise was created, seven
companies are in the process of being liquidated, two others were
privatized, two companies are in the process of being privatized and the
financial audits of a number of other public enterprises are underway;
fourth, in agriculture, incentives were increased in the coffee sector
through instituting higher producer prices and quality premia, while the
production of food crops benefited from the liberalization of the marketing
of local produce; to improve the financial performance of the cotton sector
subsidies to cotton producers were cut, three ginneries were closed and
production in marginal areas was reduced; and fifth, policies to stimulate
the forestry sector were put into place (reduction of import taxes on spare
parts and equipment and a review of taxation of the forest sector and of
export taxes on wood and wood products).
17.       The main slippages in the implementation of the program supported
by SAL I have been: the delay in implementing a three-year rolling public
investment program, delays in introducing resource mobilization measures,
failure to settle all the cross debts between parastatal enterprises and
the State and among the parastatals themselves, and the slow progress in
implementation of the civil service reform. With respect to the first
three measures, both the Government and IDA staff were over-optimistic in
their evaluation of the administrative capacity of the public institutions
involved. lhil: progress is being achieved in these areas, further efforts
are required. In order to accelerate the completion of these measures,
foreign technical assistance has been reinforced and the Government is in
the process of restructuring the Ministry of Plan. The Government was slow
in implementing the civil service reform because of delays in putting in
place new staffing plans for each Ministry, and in organizing the
institutions necessary to support the departure of civil servants to the



-9-
private sector, and also because of a shortage of funds to compensate
departing civil servants. All these slippages are in part explained by the
heavy load which the implementation of the comprehensive program has placed
on a relatively weak administration, and in part oy the Government's
preoccupation with short-term crisis management in the face of unforeseen
adverse exogenous factors, as well as with internal political developments
--the commencement of the democratisation of political life by holding
elections for the National Assembly. These events have taxed available
human and financial resources more than had been expected when the program
was designed.
18.       The Government is now determined to move ahead with the second
phase of the adjustment program. It will take place in a difficult
external environment. with an export sector lacking competitiveness. As a
result, the broad objectives of the program have been revised. Full
implementation of all measures envisaged under the program will not lead
imediately to rapid growth in per capita income; average annual per capita
income growth in 1988-90 is anticipated to be negligible. The Government's
current target now is to reach a sustainable real growth rate of GDP of
4 percent per annum by 1991 while at the same time improving the major
macroeconomic balances. An annual average current account deficit (before
official transfers) of about US$230 million is anticipated for 1988-90.
Hence, substantial amounts of foreign capital inflow will be required to
assist the CAR in laying the foundation for achieving sustained per capita
income growth. Per capita income growth somewhat in excess of 1.5 percent
a year can be expected during 1991-95, and the cumulative current account
deficit that will need to be financed will be reduced (US$215 million per
annum before official transfers).
19.       The basic elements of the strategy have not changed:
(a) agricultural-led growth based on comparative advantage and a
progressive opening of the economy to market forces;
(b) retrenchment of the public sector, strengthening public sector
resource management and stimulation of private sector
initiatives; and
(c) mobilization of external financial assistance to support the
program on concessional terms and in directions dictated by the
priorities defined in the plan.
These key objectives are to be achieved through a coherent set of policies
for macroeconomic management, agriculture, mining, the civil service and
public administration, and parapublic enterprises. These policies will
strengthen the measures taken during SAL I, correct slippages that have
occurred and introduce reforms in a number of new areas to widen and deepen
the adjustment program. The Government's program for the period 1988-90 is
detailed in the Statement of Development Policy (SDP) (Annex V), which was
reviewed by the Council of Ministers and approved in May 1988.



- 10 -
PART III - THE SAL PROGRAM 1988-1990
20.       The SAL program for 1988-90 focuses on improving macroeconomic
management (investment and expenditure programming, domestic resources, and
public debt management), lowering the burden on public resources of the
wage bill through a reduction of the number of civil servants and a reform
of the civil service, public enterprise reform including privatization, and
measures to promote agriculture, forestry, and mining production.
A. Macroeconomic Management
21.       Strengthening macroeconomic management so as to improve internal
and external balances and encourage private production and investment was
an essential element of the SAL I program. This component of the program
will be continued and deepened under SAL II. The main elements ares
reinforcing public investment programming; further reforms of the price and
trade systems in order to better allocate domestic resources; increasing
domestic resource mobilization, containing current expenditures and
improving budgetary management; and strengthening external debt management.
Public Investment Programming
22.       Background.  During the 19709 and early 19808, economic
mismanagement led to a decline in donor confidence in the economic policies
of the CAR Government and public development expenditures averaged only
some 7 percent of GDP. These low levels of public investment coupled with
unsound projects resulted in the country's infrastructure falling into
almost total disrepair. Orom 1984 to 1986, public development expenditures
were increased to 10 percent of GDP and investment programming was
improved. The Ministry of Plan was reinforced by creating a project unit
and a legal unit to assist in the preparation and negotiation of
development projects with the help of technical assistance financed by IDA
and other donors. As a result, the project portfolio was improved,
economic and financial criteria began to be used in project evaluation,
annual investment budgets were prepared for 1985 and 1986, and important
recurrent costs were quantified and budgeted -- for example, for road
maintenance. However, important issues remained to be addresseds
developing a macroeconomic framework and consistent sectoral strategies;
preparing and implementing a continuous planning mechanism including
physical and financial implementation reviews; quantifying and
incorporating into the investment program the investments realized by
parastatal enterprises; and strengthening the project approval process.
23.       In the context of the SAL I program, the Government has addressed
some of these issues. In 1986 and 1987, a five-year plan was prepared
which included macroeconomic and consistent sectoral strategies presented
to the UNDP Round Table held in June 1987. This plan is also fully
consistent with the Government's adjustment program and will serve as the
basis for the continuous three-year rolling investment programming
mechanism which the Government intends to adopt as their principal planning



- 11 -
tool. In addition, during this period, the investment program of the
parapublic sector for the period 1988-1990 was quantified, and the 1987
budget incorporated all current expenditure and revenue as well as all
development outlays and their financing, thereby permitting a better
analysis and control of the financial transactions of the Central
Government. Finally in 1987, the Ministry of Plan developed a methodology
for-disaggregating development outlays by major economic component (e.g.,
gross fixed capital formation, studies, etc.) and applied the methodology
to a preliminary draft of the investment program for the period 1988-90, as
vell as studying the future levels of recurrent costs resulting from
development projects currently being implemented. IDA staff have reviewed
the major components of the current version of the public investment
program and were in general agreement with its overall size and its
sectoral priorities. In agreement with SAL I targets, 75 percent of
development outlays are in the priority sectors, that is, agriculture, key
infrastructure in support of the productive sectors, and in education and
health. However, in order to increase the investment to GDP ratio to
12 percent in the 1990s, IDA staff believe that efforts must be made to
strengthen the project pipeline.
24.       SAL II Measures.  An important objective under the SAL II program
is to consolidate the three-year rolling investment programming system.
This programming system will comprise the annual preparation in December of
a three-year rolling investment program that will update for the next three
years, in light of changing circumstances, the macroeconomic and sectoral
strategies, the detailed project list consistent with these strategies, the
recurrent costs of the investments, local and foreign financing
projections, and the disaggregated analysis of development expenditures by
major economic component. This annual rolling program will also include a
review of the implementation of the previous years' capital budget. Other
important components of the rolling investment programming system will be
semi-annual reports on the physical and financial implementation of the
public investment program and semi-annual reviews on the financial and
economic situation. In May 1988, the Government published a review of the
implementation of the investment program in 1987 and the rolling three-year
investment program for the period 1988-90, both reviewed by IDA staff. As
a result of this review, public investment targets were established for the
period 1988-90, and the Government decided to postpone the implementation
of certain projects until further studies are completed and more
appropriate financing is identified. Another important element in the SAL
II program is formalizing and detailing the project approval process by
preparing a policy document to be finalized by early 1989 which will set
out in detail the technical, financial, economic, and management criteria
to be used in determining project priorities and the responsibilities of
the various public institutions in performing project analysis. Only those
projects which meet these criteria will be approved. Finally, the Ministry
of Plan will be reorganized it August 1988 (e.g., a macroeconomic unit and
a private investment unit will be created), and staff will be strengthened
so that the new programming system can be effectively implemented.



- 12 -
Trade and Incentives Policy
25.       Background.  A central element of the Government's structural
adjustment program is to improve the policy environment within which the
private sector must operate. Until the adoption of the structural
adjustment program, prices and trading margins were set rigidly by the
Ministry of Commerce. import policy was basically determined by a system of
quotas (jumelage system), licenses were required for both imports and
exports, the investment code was inappropriate, and there was excessive
state intervention in virtually all economic activities.
26.       During 1986, the Government undertook a fundamental reassessment
of its incentives policy and adopted a new approach that intended to give a
clear signal to the private sector by retrenching public activity to its
areas of comparative advantage and by liberalizing pricing and trade. The
Govern>amt's strategy in this area is to allow prices to be set by market
forces and thereby assure better resource allocation. The Government also
placed major importance on the promotion of small- and medium-scale
enterprises (SHEs). During SAL I, the Government progressively liberalized
prices and eliminated fixed intermediation margins of imports and locally
produced goods and services, exceptions being made for certain basic
necessities for which competition was not assured. Food crop marketing and
pricing was completely liberalized. In addition, import quotas were
eliminated (except for sugar), and import and export licenses were replaced
by a declaration system. The investment code was reviewed and the new code
was promulgated in May 1988. On the institvtional side, a new SME
promotional agency was created and the Ministry of Commerce was
strengthened through the recruitment of foreign technical assistance. In
addition, as a first step in reorganizing the Ministry of Commerce and
clarifying institutional responsibilities in the sector, the overall
responsibility for coordinating SME promotional initiatives was assigned to
the Ministry and the office for SMEs attached to the Presidency was
abolished.
27.       SAL II Measures.  The Government is firmly committed to continue
to liberalize the incentive system and to reinforce the institutional
framework supporting the expansion of private sector activity. Thus, in
the context of the SAL II, the Government intends to improve incentives by:
(a) finalizing price liberalization for goods by abolishing the
remaining price controls in two phases: those for five textile
products, soap and matches in June 1988 and those for the
remaining 11 products by March 1989;
(b) undertaking a study of competition in the trade of manufactured
goods with emphasis on possible entry barriers (December 1988)
with a view to promulgating a law regulating competition during
1989;



- 13 -
(c) reviewing and simplifying the licensing procedures for private
traders (December 1988), to enhance competition in the sector of
trade;
(d) improving resource allocation in merchandise road transport by:
(i) liberalizing road transport tariffs; (ii) reducing and
harmonizing the tax rate on road transport to 5 percent for all
export products (except for cotton which remains at 2.4 percent),
including those products in transit through the CAR. This tax
will be charged only once on transport costs incurred from the
point of production to CAR's borders based upon a tariff schedule
that will be revised periodically; (iii) replacing the present
commission system charged by BARC 21 by a single commission, not
exceeding 6 percent; (iv) making the use of BARC optional for
local transport whose point of origin is outside Bangui; and
(v) establishing a commission, with the participation of the
private sector, to prepare a transport code and examine the
future role and structure of BARC (June 1988);
(e) studying and preparing a reform program of the tariff system
including: (i) simplification and strengthening of customs
procedures and regulations, (ii) harmonization of effective
protection rates within the context of the common UDEAC external
tariffs and (iii) the preferential tax regime for enterprises
that produce for export i.e., taxe unique (December 1988);
(f) undertaking a study of the banking system, concentrating on the
barriers to providing credit to SMEs, increasing financial
savings by small depositors, and identifying the remedial actions
to be taken in order to improve the financial situation of the
commercial banks and of the postal checking and deposit system
(January 1989); and
(g) undertaking a study to identify the major artisanal/SME
activities and the constraints to their development, the
technical training needs of the sector, and the financial and
economic viability of setting up an industrial park for SMEs.
28.       On the institutional nide, the Government is also firmly
committed to implementing a significant reform program during SAL I1. An
important long-term effort will be to review, by December 1989, she
industrial and commercial code, which has not been revised since
independence, in light of the new liberal orientation adopted by the
Government. The Chamber of Commerce will be revitalized by reducing
2/   Bureau d'Affretement de la Republique Centrafricaines  a parastatal
that regulates international road traffic quotas and provides services
to transporters.



- 14 -
governmental interference and Chamber officials will be elected directly by
the members; its statutes will be revised so as to allow the Chamber to
develop its own sources of funds derived from the provision of services to
the private sector (December 1988), consequently budgetary subsidies for
the Chamber will be progressively reduced; membership to the Chamber will
be made voluntary at the latest by end 1989. The Government also intends
to open a "one stop" office for foreign investors (March 1989) with the
technical assistance of the Bank and other donors in order to facilitate
private investment. Finally, by September 1988, the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry will be reorganized on the basis of the reorganization plan
prepared under the SAL I program, to better promote and assist the private
sector (e.g., eliminate the Price Control Unit).
Public Resource Management
29.       Background.  The overall fiscal deficit in 1987 was in excess of
9 percent of GDP, one percentage point higher than in 1986, while current
fiscal revenue amounted to 10.4 percent of GDP in 1987, down from
11.2 percent in 1986. Revenue performance was weak despite the fact that
tax rates were increased, customs duties exemptions reduced, and efforts
made to collect tax arrears and to strengthen tax administration.
Contributing to this weak revenue performance is the erosion of the export
sector as a tax base due to the decline in the prices of the CAR's major
export products in CFAF terms.
30.       Even before the recent drop in the ratio of taxes to GDP, the CAR
stood out as a low-taxed country. Amongst a group of ten French-speaking
West African countries, the CAR was found to have the lowest Otax effort'
raising only 70 percent of the norm. 3/ This situation results from
inadequate utilization of the available tax bases and weak tax
administration. In particular, collection of import taxes is poor. Not
only is smuggling substantial, but exemptions and exonerations have
resulted in a situation where import tax receipts amount to only 13 percent
of the value of imports despite very high tax rates, while for other
low-income small developing countries import taxes represent an average
17 percent of the value of imports. Tax arrears have also been mounting
sharply (they are estimated at CFAF 19 billion at end 1985), although the
Government has increased its collection efforts.
31.       The containment of recurrent expenditures in recent years was
largely the result of policies to reduce the growth in the wage bill.
Efforts to that effect were in line with the goal of the Government to
reduce the share of the wage bill in the budget to 50 percent of domestic
revenue by 1990. Nominal wages were frozen, the '1 for 3' rule, was
3/   IMF report to the Government of the CAR (December 19, 1986).  Data
were for 1980. The "norm takes into account per capita income, the
size of the export sector and the share of mining in national income.
I.



- 15 -
adhered to (para 6), beneficiaries eligible for family allowances were
pruned, exceptional arrangements of the civil services code were frozen,
reimbursement of irregular salary payments was enforced and the civil
service records were reorganized. However, the wage bill still amounts to
67 percent of domestic revenue and to 78 percent of the expenditures on
wages and material purchases combined.
32.       The 1988 budget provided for a number of revenue measures.  The
general income tax was revised so as to increase its yield by an estimated
6 percent. Fees for business licenses were increased and the complementary
import tax was increased for a number of items (cigarettes, perfumes,
certain types of motor vehicles, etc.). Initiatives were taken to speed up
the recovery of tax arrears, to strengthen the customs administration by
having recourse to a team of expatriate customs officials, and work has
begun to create a system of tax identification numbers. In addition the
principle of sales of government participation in certain public
enterprises was retained, as well as the issuing of a new Investment Code
and an updated tax code.
33.       SAL II Objectives.  The objectives of the Government's fiscal
policy are to:
(a) reduce the overall deficit to 5.5 percent of GDP by 1990;
(b) enhance revenue mobilization so that domestic revenue covers
current expenditure in 1988 and by 1990 exceeds current
expenditure sufficiently to finance the major part of the
domestically financed investment budget which for 1990 has been
estimated at CFAF 4.5 billion; and
(c) within the constraints spelled out under (b), restructure current
expenditure by reducing the wage bill from CPAF 25.4 billion in
1987 to CFAF 22.8 billion in 1990; and reorganize expenditure to
finance higher levels of materials, supplies, and services and to
increase the share used to finance priority sectors (health,
education).
34.       In 1988 the Government intends to make payments to settle the
balance of cross-debts with the public enterprises (CFAF 1.9 billion or
0.6 percent of GDP), to settle the arrears of the Cotton Development Agency
(SOCADA) (CFAF 5 billion or 1.5 percent of GDP), and to pay price support
to the coffee and cotton producers (CFAF 2.5 billion and CFAF 2.0 billion
respectively) so as to prevent the present low international prices in CFAF
terms from undermining producer incentives in the vital sectors. Given the
Government's commitment not to incur further payment arrears, total current
expenditure on a commitment basis and before net lending is expected to
reach CFAF 42 billion or 13 percent of GDP. The measures underway
(para 32) and the new measures to be initiated under SAL II (paras 35-38)
will enhance revenue mobilization and contain expenditure. Public
Investment expenditure in 1988 (25 percent of which is estimated to be
recurrent expenditure) is expected to amount to CFAF 33 billion or
10 percent of GDP, down from 12.5 percent of GDP in 1986-87. Unless the



- 16 -
revenue performance slips during 1988, the overall deficit is expected to
drop to 8 percent of GDP in 1988 and 1989; a further reduction to 5 percent
of GDP is programmed for 1990, when the new revenue measures will be fully
effective.
35.       Under SAL II, the Government will introduce a set of revenue
measures aimed at increasing fiscal revenue from 10.8 percent of GDP in
1988 to 11.8 percent of GDP in 1990, while non-fiscal revenues will be
maintained at 1.5 percent of GDP, as follows:
(a)  exemptions and exoneration from import taxes will be drastically
reduced while those that remain will be followed more closely.
To that effect, the Government has decided (i) to subject to the
normal customs and tax regulations all imports that are financed
by foreign loans as well as subcontractors and their personnel
(Budget 1989); (ii) to replace systematic diplomatic exemptions
by global quotas negotiated with the heads of the diplomatic
missions; (iii) to renegotiate the system of the taxe unique
which is a cause of considerable loss of fiscal revenue within
the context of the UDEAC; and (iv) to improve the surveillance of
imports that enter duty free under the Investment Code;
(b)  customs administration will be strengthened by (i) reinforcing
the transit procedures in collaboration with the Cameroonian
authorities; (ii) continuing to enforce customs procedures with
the help of a team of French customs officials; and
(iii) providing additional resources and manpower. A diagnostic
study of the customs administration will be initiated after which
a specific rehabilitation strategy will be put into place;
(c)  the complementary import tax (levied on top of the duties
established in the context of the UDEAC) will be increased by
five percentage points on all imports except fuel;
(d)  a study of the general income tax (IGR) will be undertaken to
identify the impact of broadening its base, making the system of
family allowances more equitable, and eventually reducing the
marginal tax rates; a study will be undertaken along the lines
spelled out in the report of the IMF tax missions of 1986 and
1988; a new IGR will be included in the 1989 budget;
(e)  renters will be required to pay one month's rent to the Treasury,
the amount will be credited to the landlord's IGR and will be
eventually reimbursable; and
(f)  tax administration will be strengthened by further implementing
the measures recommended by the 1986 and 1988 IMF tax missions.
36.       The level of current expenditure in the CAR is low when compared
with that of similar countries. This is due to the weak revenue
performance and the unavailability of other sources of financing. After



- 17 -
taking into account the debt service payments, and the large share of these
expenditures used to finance the wage bill, few resources remain to pay for
transfers, and for the purchase of matecials and services essential for the
proper functioning of the administration. Under SAL II, the Government
will take a number of expendirure measures aimed at achieving a better
balance between these items.
37.       The wage bill amounted to 60 percent of current expenditure in
1987, against 63 percent in 1984, a reduction that was the result of the
measures mentioned above (para 8). The debt service, however, increased
during this period, allowing only a small increase in the share of current
expenditure that is used for purchases of material and services (15.6 to
17 percent). The Government will continue to contain the wage bill -- as a
share of its fiscal resources and as a share of its total recurrent
expenditure -- and to apply the savings to financing the purchase of
materisls and services. The wage bill (calculated on the same basis as in
1987) will not exceed CFAF 24 billion in 1988 and CFAP 22 billion in 1989.
Expenditure on material and services will increase from CFAF 7.2 billion in
1987 to CPAF 8.5 billion in 1990. Priority will be given to purchases of
material and the repair of buildings in the educational and health sectors.
The strengthening of government operations in these sectors should enhance
the earning potential of the population at large and benefit most those who
have no access to privately provided health and education services.
(Detailed measures to contain the wage bill are given in paras 43-44.) To
release the necessary resources, the Government intends to continue
reducing the expense of its diplomatic missions abroad and its
participation in international organizations.
38.       The policy of providing grants for study within the CAR and
abroad has in the past not been oriented towards supplying the country with
the skills most needed to support social and economic development. Hence
the Government intends to rationalize and reduce expenditure on
scholarships through the development of the National Scholarship Service.
The Education Rehabilitation and Development Project (Cr. 1863-CA) supports
this service. Its aim is to (i) reduce Government expenditure on
scholarships from 16 percent in 1987 to 8 percent of the education
recurrent budget by 1994, and (ii) focus government funded overseas
scholarships on key scientific, technological and managerial fields not
available at the University of Bangui.
External Debt Management
39.       In order to improve public debt management and reduce the debt
service burden, the Government intends to:
(a) request a multi-year Paris Club debt rescheduling; its objective
is to reschedule both principal arrears and current maturities
(CFAF 5.8 billion in 1988) and to conclude the bilateral debt
rescheduling agreements by December 1988;
(b) avoid accumulating any new external arrears;



- 18 -
(c) contract short-term financing for trade financing only; medium-
and long-term debt contracted or guaranteed by the State will be
on concessional terms (grant component in excess of 25 percent)
and with a maturity of at least 12 years; the Government will
inform IDA of the conditions of loans with a value in excess of
CFAF 1 billion prior to signature;
(d) revise the Government's policy regarding loan guarantees and
enact appropriate legislation. Such legislation will
(i) restrict loan guarantees to those parapublic enterprises that
have a sound debt repayment capability; (ii) condition its
onlending of debt to the parapublic sector so as to cover the
risks taken by CAADE; and (iii) prohibit new government
guarantees for private sector debt; and
(e) strengthen CAADE. Its role in debt management will be clearly
established, and the debt data base will be computerized;
internal financial controls will be reinforced by drawing on the
ongoing internal audit and by setting up an improved accounting
system; staff training will be vigorously pursued.
B. Civil Service Reform
40.       Background. A key objective of the structural adjustment program
is to implement a reform of the civil service which weuld lead to increases
in its efficiency and to a reduction in the wage bill. The Government's
efforts in this regard have been longstanding: since 1982 it has adopted
measures to tighten personnel management and reduce staff. The list of
civil servants and the payroll roster were updated, recruitment quotas were
introduced (the ^1 for 3' rule) 41 and the base salaries for civil servants
who were promoted were frozen. Yet, because of the drop in fiscal revenue,
the wage bill as a percent of fiscal receipts decreased from 82 percent to
only 75 percent during 1982-1987r However, the public sector continued to
be burdened with excessively high personnel costs which severely limited
the availability of budgetary resources for operational and development
purposes. An ambiguous civil service code and its numerous exceptional
arrangements, overstaffing, lack of appropriate qualifications for many
civil servants and inadequate training hampered the efficiency of the civil
service. In addition, cumbersome and inefficient administrative
procedures, unclear terms of references for many ministries and otner large
administrative units, and inconsistencies between assigned ministerial
responsibilities and their organizational structures continued.
41   See para 16; this rule restricts the recruitment of civil servants,
but does not apply for military for which the rule *1 franc for 1
franc' applies.



- 19 -
41.       Actions taken during SAL I were noted under para 31.  In
addition, all reorganization plans were frozen temporarily (except the
addition of SHE promotional activities to the Ministry of Commerce
mentioned in para 28) in order to encourage the rapid completion of the new
staffing plans for all ministries. Staffing plans were completed for the
Ministries of Civil Service, Higher Education and Scientific Research,
Rural Development, Commerce and Industry, Economy and Finance and National
Education. However, only the first two staffing plans were effectively
implemented largely because the institutional and financial arrangements
that were to assist departing civil servants (i.e., the "Personnel Bank")
were not yet in place (para 17). The main purpose of the Personnel Bank is
to reassign redundant staff from the reorganized ministries to other vacant
posts in the civil service for which they are qualified or to assist the
departure of such staff by financing redundancy payments andlor training
programs to facilitate their absorption into the private sector.
42.       SAL II Measures.  The continued reduction of the wage bill will
be a central element in the process of public resource management. It is
expected that the wage bill iill not exceed CFAF 24.0 billion in 1988 and
CFAP 22.0 billion in 1989. In pursuit of this objective, the Government in
May 1988 adopted two laws and two decrees detailing the operating
procedures of the program for voluntary departures and of the Personnel
Bank, which are to facilitate the departure or reabsorption of the civil
servants not retained within the staffing plans, and earmarked
CFAF 3 billion to finance voluntary departures and the operations of the
Bank during 1988 (CFAF 1.8 billion to be set aside in July 1988) s0 that
the Personnel Bank can become operational in July 1988 when the first
voluntary departures are to take place.
43.       Further to this objective, the Government will:
(a) strictly apply the rules for obligatory retirement and the "I for
3" rule in recruitment for Government employment for those
ministries for which the new staffing plans have not yet been
implemented and, thereafter freeze employment for two years at
levels recommended by the staffing plans;
(b) reform the family allowance system by lowering the eligibility
age for children from 21 to 18 and make modifications in benefits
which will lead to a savings of CEAF 700 million on an annual
Ibasis;
(c) implement all staffing plans now ready before the end of 1988 and
thereby reduce by about 1,000 the number of government employees
and prepare staffing plans for the remaining ministries by end
1988 to be implemented in early 1989; and
(d) review the compensation system with a view to substantially
reducing multiple compensations of civil servants
(September 1988).



- 20 -
44.       In order to increase the efficiency of the civil service, improve
financial management and reinforce the professional training programs,
under SAL II the Government willt
(a) reform the civil service code to harmonize the benefits attached
to each administrative category to avoid the resurgence of
special arrangements and limit and control possible exceptions
(September 1988);
(b)  strengthen civil service management by clarifying the respective
responsibilities of the General Directorate of Civil Service
(DGFP), the personnel agencies of the ministries, and the payroll
service within the Ministry of Finance (December 1988);
(c) computerize the civil service files and payroll system
(March 1989);
(d) review the overall salary scale once the staffing plans of the
various Ministries have been implemented so as to better link
compensation to responsibility and performance (September 1988);
and
(e) expand the personnel in-service training and career development
programs and capacities to improve skills and professional
expertise within the framework of the staffing plans.
C. Parastatal Sector Reform
45.       With 45 public enterprises (PEs), the parastatal sector occupies
a key position in the CAR economic system. The sector is composed of 19
PEs and public agencies wholly owned by the State, eight mixed PEs with
majority state participation, one mixed PE with equal State and private
sector ownership and 17 mixed PEs in which the State's participation is
less than 50 percent. In addition to the basic utilities providing water
(SNE), electricity (ENERCA) and post and telecommnunication services (OCPT),
PEs or public agencies are present in virtually all sectors of the economy
including agriculture (e.g., CAISTAB, ADECAP), agro-industry (e.g., SOCADA,
CENTRAPALM), manufacturing (e.g., UCATEX), finance (e.g., BIAO, UBAC,
BCAD), petroleum distribution (PETROCA), and other sectors. In terms of
employment, the PE sector accounts for 11,500 jobs. Overall, this sector
is characterized by a poor performance with heavy losses, overstaffing, low
productivity, and poor cost control. Government subsidies were substantial
but, because of severe budgetary constraints, they were cut drastically as
of 1986. The liquidity crisis in parastatals is becoming more and more
severe and cross debts among parastatals and between parastatals and the
State are large.
46.       Aware of the severity of the situation, and of its consequence on
public finances, and in line with its policy to withdraw from productive
activities and to promote the private sector, the Government began, under
SAL I, a reform of the parastatal sector. The main elements of the reform



- 21 -
strategy are to reinforce supervision, to reduce the size of the parapublic
sector through liquidation and privatization, to promote financial
restructuration and discipline, and to rehabilitate the strategic and
priority PEs. Efforts in each of these areas are to be pursued under
SAL II.
47.       Supervision of the Sector.  Prior to SAL I, the Government
created a High Commission in charge of PEs to supervise the sector on a
continuous basis as well as prepare and implement a sector-wide reform
strategy. During SAL I, the Government classified the en erprises and
offices according to their importance with regard to the implementation of
the Government's objectives: five strategic enterprises and public
offices, including the three major utilities, in which the State's presence
is considered essential; 12 priority enterprises and public offices in
which the State's presence is considered necessary for the moment in order
to assure the provision of the goods and services produced by these PEs;
and others, in which the State's presence is not considered necessary. The
strategic and priority PEs dominate the sector, representing 78 percent of
gross value of output, 62 percent of value-added and 72 percent of
employment in the sector. The High Commission publishes annually the
consolidated accounts of the sector and detailed accounts of all the main
PEs. Under SAL II, as of fiscal year 1989, the accounts of seven PEs
(ENERCA, SNE, OCPT, PETROCA, UCATEX, SOCADA, and OCSS) will be certified
within four months after the end of the accounting year, and approved by
the respective Board of Directors within the three following months.
48.       Liquidation and Privatization.  A National Liquidation Commission
was created which has so far closed three banks and four important
enterprises. In addition, au agro-processing firm (SICPAD) was privatized
and negotiations with the private sector concerning the national
slaughterhouse (SEGA) and an insurance company (SIRIRI) are underway.
Under SAL II, the Government is to pay its share of the outstanding
liabilities of the closed enterprises before December 31, 1988 to enable
liquidations to be completed by that date. The Government will immediately
reduce by half the current liquidation expenses of the three liquidated
banks, which currently are excessively high, through staff reductions and
will complete these liquidations before December 31, 1989. The Government
will also pursue its efforts to privatize eight public enterprises, and
will investigate the possibilities for privatizing others. These eight PEs
and SOCADA, the privat.zation of which is being explored in the context of
the Cotton Sector Adjustment Credit, represent approximately 14 percent of
the total share capital of the sector. The Government will establish
standardized privatization procedures before July 30, 1988.
49.       Financial Restructuration and Discipline.  The Government has
clearly restated its intention not to set up any new enterprises where the
State would hold a majority of the shares. Moreover, strict control will
be exercised over PE borrowings to be guaranteed or onlent by the State
(para 39), and all subsidies to the PEs will be reviewed by the Ministry of
Finance and the High Commission in charge of PEs. As far as government
consumption of PE services is concerned, the budgetary allocations have



- 22 -
been increased by 20 percent. The Government will settle the balance of
its cross debts with the parastatal sector (CFAF 1.89 billion) before
September 30, 1988; and will review and eventually modify the PE tariff
policy. Government will also review the procedures relating to the
preparation and approval of the PE investment program.
50.       Rehabilitation of the PE Sector.  The Government has launched a
study of the institutional and legal parastatal framework, started a
program of audits and initiated a rolling three-year investment and
financial plan for the main PEs. Under SAL IT, the Government will finish
the study of the institutional and legal framework of the PE sector; the
salient recommendations of this study will be implemented by
December 31, 1988. The Government will put in place rehabilitation plans,
including staffing reduction measures, for the three major utility
companies (SNE, ENERCA, OCPT) by December 31, 1988.
D. Agriculture
51.       The agriculture program under SAL II will continue, strengthen,
and expand upon the measures included under SAL I. New measures will cover
four broad areas: (i) restructuring of the sector's institutional
framework; (ii) reform of the coffee pricing and marketing system;
(iii) reform of the price stabilization agency (CAISTAB); and
(iv) promotion of food crop production. Reforms of the cotton sector which
were initiated under SAL I with the closure of marginal areas and
unproductive ginneries, are being pursued under the ongoing Cotton Sector
Adjustment Credit approved in July 1987.
52.       The institutional framework for planning and implementing
sectoral development is weak. While overstaffed, the Ministry of Rural
Development (MRD), neither has the structure, the means, nor the skills
required to fulfill its strategic mandate, which includes planning,
supervision and coordination of development activities. Execution of
development tasks is mainly carried out by area-based, donor-funded,
commodity specific agencies. As a result, development options have
responded more to donor preferences and funding availability than to
national priorities and budgetary constraints, and a mix of development
approaches with significant gaps and duplication of efforts ensued. Under
SAL I, a first step towards restructuring the agriculture sector's
institutions was taken with the preparation of a manpower plan for the
Ministry of Rural Development (MRD), specifying the number and profiles of
posts required to carry out the Ministry's functions. Under SAL I1 the
reform will be pursued on three fronts. First, the MRD will be
restructured in line with the staffing targets of the manpower plan and the
Ministry's leadership mandate for planning, management, coordination and
monitoring of agricultural development. As a result, development tasks
that overlap with those of other agencies will be eliminated from the
Ministry's responsibility, and an estimated seven hundred civil servants
will be transferred to the 'Personnel Bank" (para 41) in line with an
agreed timetable. Second, the initial departures will take place before
August 1988 and MRD restructuring will be completed by November 1988.



- 23 -
Agriculture research which, to this date has been carried out under
individual projects with some duplication (food crops), major gaps
(coffee), and a lack of leadership at the center, will be brought together
under a National Service to be established as a semi-autonomous body under
HRD (June 1988). At the same time, the Government will prepare a project
in order to obtain donor support  or the newly created Research Service
(December 1988). Third, a national extension strategy will be formulated
(December 1988) so as tot (i) put into place one single multi-crop
extension structure per region; and (ii) harmonize the extension approach
of the various regional structures by the progressive introduction of the
Training and Visit system.
53.       Coffee is the most important export crop both in terms of
value-added and export earnings. CAR enjoys a comparative advantage in
robusta coffee production, and untl.l recently the sector generated
substantial surpluses. These surpluses accrued mainly to the Government as
producer prices were kept low in relation to world prices; this proved to
be a significant disincentive to expand coffee production and improve its
quality. Under SAL I the producer price for coffee was increased (from
CFAF 300/kg to CFAF 380/kg) in an effort to stimulate producers' incomes
and investments. With fixed marketing margins remaining in place, the
brunt of world price fluctuations is borne by the national budget,
competition is limited, traders are unduly protected and inefficiencies in
the marketing chain are perpetuated. Under SAL II coffee pricing and
marketing will be reformed to (i) maintain an adequate level of incentives
for production and investment, and (ii) to share the gains and losses
caused by world price fluctuations more equitably between the operators of
the coffee chain: producers, intermediaries, Stabilizat40n Fund, and the
budget. It is recognized that given the present low coffee prices
prevailing on the world market, the maintenance of incentive prices will
require budget support. These objectives will be attained by:
(a) adopting a flexible producer pricing system that follows world market
trends, with a floor price initially set at CFAF 380 per kg and guaranteed
by a Coffee Stabilization Fund; (b) eliminating the current system of
guaranteed marketing margins; and (c) introducing a progressive export tax
(applied to the difference between the export price net of commercial
margins and the floor price) with proceeds divided between the budget and
the Stabilization Fund. This scheme will allow prices paid to the producer
to increase when world markets strengthen, while also providing substantial
resources for the Stabilization Fund and the budget. The elimination of
guaranteed marketing margins will lead to increased competition among
traders and procev,ors and reduced marketing and processing costs; overall
sector efficiency would be enhanced. The new pricing and marketing system
will be prepared during the course of the next marketing season and the
system will be adopted in October 1989. In the interim, producer prices
will be maintained at CFAF 380/kg. At present world market prices, this
producer price implies an annual subsidy of about CFAF 2.0 billion.
54.       CAISTAB, the coffee price stabilization agency, has not
adequately fulfilled its mandate. For a long time it functioned as au
uncontrolled public finance mechanism, removing substantial resources from



- 24 -
the coffee sector and channelling them into areas with no appreciable
long-run benefits. When the need to support prices arose in 1986, CAISTAB
had no reserves and was therefore unable to support producer prices.
CAISTAB is still involved in trading coffee and some other products on
occasion, despite the Government's declared policy of public retrenchment
from commercial activities. CAISTAB's usefulness stems from its role in
exercising quality control and enforcing trade agreements for which it need
not be as large an organization as it presently is. Under SAL I, the
Government took steps to increase transparency of CAISTAB accounts and to
integrate CAISTAB investment financing into the Budget. It also carried
out a fundamental review of the role, organization and procedures of
CAISTAB. Following upon the conclusions of that study, SAL II will support
measures to strengthen CAISTAB's functions as a public sector service
agency in support of coffee eyports (quality control, price regulation and
enforcement of International Coffee Agreement rules). CAISTAB's commercial
activities will be limited to a minimum, and the Government will determine
the extent to which even these limited activities should be maintained on
the basis of a financial and management audit (August 1988). CAISTAB's
role as a price stabilization agency was abolished with the creation of the
new Coffee Stabilization Fund to be managed by an independent Committee in
May 1988. This Management Committee which will set the policies and
operating procedures of the Fund (September 1988) will be made up of
representatives of the State (Finance and Rural Development Ministries) and
of the private sector (exporters and commercial banks). CAISTAB will also
be represented on the Committee and will perform the technical work in
support of the Fund's operations (e.g., calculation of levies, taxes, and
support payments).
55.       The country's production potential for foodstuffs is
considerable, but output is severely limited by marketing constraints. The
small size of the urban population offers only a limited market for
foodcrops and livestock products, export possibilities are limited, while
the inadequate network of rural roads substantially raises internal
transportation costs. Furthermore, until recently, foodcrop marketing was
hampered by excessive government regulation. Under SAL I, Government took
a series of measures to promote the consumption of local foodcrops, with
the abolition of administrative barriers to trade and decontrol of consumer
prices. Under SAL II a number of measures will be taken to further expand
local markets. Control of illegal imports in food products (e.g., palm oil
and sugar) will be stepped up in line with increased government efforts to
repress parallel trade. The tariff structure for food products will be
reviewed with the goal of providing an adequate level of protection to
local foodstuffs including meat and milk. Food aid that competes directly
with local production will be eliminated (i.e., all food aid except special
funding programs for infants and women and some 'food for work' projects)
and to the extent feasible, the Government will negotiate for food aid to
be substituted with gifts of inputs and equipment (e.g., Japan Food
Production Grant program). To further expand domestic markets for
agricultural products, the Government will undertake two key studies by
October 1988s first, it will explore means to develop small scale
agro-processing enterprises, including pre-feasibility studies and



- 25 -
identification of potential entrepreneurs; second, it will formulate an
action plan for the maintenance and construction of rural roads.
S. Forestry
56.       Although actual output is below the sustainable potential of CAR
forests, production has been dropping steadily in recent years as a result
of the low profitability of logging. The sector is hampered by high
production and transport costs. Under SAL I, in an effort to lower timber
production costs and redress the declining production and export trend,
import tariffs on spare parts and equipment for the forestry sector were
reduced. Also, to increase industry earnings from the sale of secondary
timber species to the domestic market, the internal price for sawnwood was
decontrolled. At the same time, the Government adopted a new forest tax
regime simplifying the system of forest taxes while enforcing their
collection, and encouraging a more rational exploitation of timber
resources. This regime, which came into force in January 1988, reduces the
number of taxes, limits the scope for tax evasion, and shifts the basis for
taxation from volume to value thereby improving incentives to fell
secondary species. This same legislation extends the term of forest
concessions in order to improve the wood industry's incentives to preserve
the long term production potential of the forest. Under SAL II, further
improvements will be made to the forestry legislation to subject all wood
industries to the same rights and obligations, and to further strengthen
the power of the Forestry Ministry to control abuses (July 1988). In
parallel, a strategy to enforce the long term conservation of forestry
resources will be prepared (December 1988). This will include aerial
photography, preparation of a forest inventory and forest management plan,
and strengthening of the institutions involved in the management of
forestry resources. This strategy will be reflected in a forest
conservation, management, and wood utilization project to be submitted to
IDA and other donors. Finally, customs regulations affecting the sector
will be revised (June 1988). To increase the production and exports of
secondary species, the export tax will be abolished for all species except
the most valuable woods. To stimulate the production of high value-added
but low wood consuming products, the export tax on these products will be
suspended for a period of three years and gradually reintroduced
thereafter.
F.  Mining
57.       SAL I contained measures to increase the volume and unit value of
diamond exports through official channels which in 1987 amounted to
39 percent of total exports. A new diamond classification and reference
price system has been adopted and has resulted in a significant increase in
the average unit export price, which rose by about 40 percent between 1986
and the first half of 1987. With the help of Bank-financed technical
assistants, new legislation has been drafted which will reduce export taxes
and thereby encourage greater use of official channels. With French
assistance, the Government has increased the number of customs brigades,
logistical support and operational efficiency of the customs services to



- 26 -
combat diamond fraud. On-the-job and overseas training of national diamond
evaluators has been completed with good results; however they still lack
experience.
S8.       Under SAL II, some measures that had been called for under SAL I
but were delayed for lack of funds will be implemented. In particular, the
Government will: (a) improve incentives so as to increase diamond exports
through legal channels by lowering diamond export taxes; (b) strengthen
diamond evaluation procedures (further training of evaluators, establishing
a separate evaluation unit and performance bonuses for evaluators,
purchasing a sample diamond lot) so as to increase unit export values
(June 1988); tc) reinforce the mining brigades by granting them additional
equipment and training (June 1988); and (d) establish a national inventory
of mining resources (March 1989).
PART IV - ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL IMPACT AND
THE SOCIAL DIMENSION OF ADJUSTMENT
Proiected Medium-Term Prospects for Growth
59.       For the second phase of the Government's ajustment program,
present unfavorable circumstances make a resumption of substantial per
capita income growth very unlikely, and will require large foreign capital
inflows on concessional terms. Under the base case scenario, the
Government has set out an objective of overall growth of the economy during
the period 1988-90 of 2.5 percent per annum. Measures to overcome the
effects of low international prices for coffee and cotton will be
undertaken, as well as measures to improve efficiency in these sectors.
However, the effects of these measures will materialize only slowly and
real export growth of only 0.4 percent a year is expected in 1988, with
accelerated growth in 1989-90. Despite slow import growth, the current
account deficits (before official transfers) in 1988-90 of US$680 million
will need to be financed by concessional capital inflows. Scheduled debt
service for 1988-90 is estimated at 27 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services (30 percent including outstanding arrears at end 1987).
Under the base case scenario, from 1990 on, GDP growth is expected to
accelerate and the balance of payments will strengthen as a result of
higher export earnings, partly because of the beneficial effects of the
stabilization program and partly because export prices are expected to be
firmer. However, financing of the current account deficits of about
US$405 million will still be required in 1991-92-
60.       The expected expansion in real GDP of 2.5 percent per annum
during the period 1988-90 stems mainly from the livestock and food crop
sectors (approximately 90 percent of agricultural value-added with the
balance accounted for by forestry and export crops). The relatively high
growth rate in the livestock sector will be the effect of a larger herd
with improved productivity. Productivity increases are mostly the result
of the ongoing National Livestock Project. This project, which is



- 27 -
proceeding very well, includes actions on two major frontss disease
control and feeder roads. The measures include distribution of drugs,
vaccination campaigns and extension advice. The rehabilitation of feeder
roads in the main livestock zone, by increasing the flow of goods in and
out of the areas, will lead to higher offtake rates. The foodcrops sector,
vhich in the past has grown in line with population growth, has
considerable potential; its development is being stimulated by several
ongoing regional agriculture projects, while marketing constraints are
being lifted; fixed producer prices for food crops have been removed, road
barriers were suppressed, and rural roads are to be rehabilitated.
Furthermore, under SAL II, the Government will adopt a restrictive food aid
and food import policy in order to expand domestic food crop markets.
Finally, improvements in the efficiency of the extension service, which is
a vital component of the Government's agriculture strategy, should result
in improvements in food crop productivity from 1990 onwards. Growth
prospects for cotton on the other hand are likely to be dimmed by the
continuation of unfavorable export prices.
61.       During the period 1991-95, the economy's growth would continue to
be led by agriculture, the value added of which is expected to expand by
4.1 percent per annum due to a continued growth of the food crop and
livestock sectors (4 percent per annum) as well as cash crops and forestry.
The pace of expansion in light manufacturing, though starting from a small
base. could be relatively rapid, assuming favorable private sector response
to the liberalization of prices, the Government's efforts to promote SME8,
the envisaged rationalization of the system of protection and trade and the
continued privatizationlrehabilitation of public enterprises. The
secondary sector as a whole could thus expand by 5 percent per annum
throughout the period 1991-95. Finally, the tertiary sector can be
expected to realize a growth rate of about 4 percent per annum during this
period, paralleling the growth performance of the other sectors of economy.



- 28 -
Table 8: Central African Republic
Selected Econoemic Indlcators. 1986-191
Projected Annual Growth Rate ()
1985 CFAF  Act.    Eat.   Buse Case Scenario    Downside Rick Scen.
blillon    190    1987   1088-90  1991-95         1088-90  1991-96
GDP (market prices)                 820.9  825.2       2.6      4.2          2.8      8.4
CDP at Factor Cost         *        298.6  806.2       2.5      4.2          2.8      8.4
Agriculture                       120.0  126.2       4.0      4.1          8.4      8.5
Industry                 8         41.5   40.0       2.7      5.1          2.8      8.7
Services                          180.5  140.4       1.1      8.9          1.8      8.8
Private Consumption g/      a       208.2  802.0       2.0      8.8          2.6      8.0
Govt. Consumption          *         43.8   44.6    -2.8        4.6         -1.9      8.7
Gross Invostment           *         40.8   86.6       4.6      6.8          1.4      4.3
Export of Goods + NFS                69.9   66.5       6.9      5.5          4.1      8.6
Imports of Goods + NFS              181.8  128.4       2.0      3.7          2.1      8.1
Ratios                                                             Projeteod
1966   197   Base Case Scenarlo    Downside Risk Scen.
Units Actual Est.   1990        19965          1990    1995
Investment/GOP               X      12.2   10.6   11.2        12.8           10.4    10.6
Public/Total Investment      X      88.6   82.0   60.4        70.9           60.6    02.1
HS/GDP                       X       5.2    2.0    4.7         6.8            1.8      1.4
Exports of Goods * NFS/CDP   X      19.4   16.8   18.4        20.6           16.0    17.6
Imports of Coode + NFS/ODP   X      83.8   88.2   81.6        80.4           82.1    80.7
BOP Current Account/GDP k/   X    -17.0  -19.9  -16.5    -12.7              -10.4   -16.6
Grants + Oross Public Loan
Olsb./GDP                  X      18.8   20.4   17.9        18.4           16.4    14.2
Debt Service/Exports CFS    X       16.1   16.8   28.6        17.1           26.7    26.6
Debt Service/Covt. Receipts   X     25.2   S8.1   82.9        21.9           84.7    28.2
lLT DOD/GDP c/               X      41.5   40.8   68.0        61.9           55.1    61.5
Fiscal Receipts/GOP          X      11.2   10.4   11.8        12.9           11.2    12.8
/ Sncludes the public enterprises.
k/ Excluding public net transfers.
J Excludes gap financing.



- 29 -
62,       As a result of the difficult internal resource position and the
decline in foreign financed development expenditures, public investment has
been declining in 1986 and 1987, and this trend will continue in 1988.
This, together with the stagnation of private investment, has led to a
decline in the share of investment in GDP from 13 percent in 1985 to
11 percent in 1987 with a further decline to 10 percent expected for 1988.
Although it is an important objective of the Goverment to raise the level
of public and private investment, the lack of domestic financial resources
as well as the intention of the Government to contain the debt service
burden within reasonable bounds causes the share of investment in GDP to
increase only slowly, from 10 percent in 1988 to 12 percent in 1995.
Private investment has been conservatively forecast to expand from
1.9 percent of GDP in 1987 to 2.1 percent in 1990 and 2.6 percent of GDP in
1995. The Government intends to concentrate its investment efforts in
supporting the productive sectors, especially agriculture, in
rehabilitating the rural roads system and in the social sectors. It is
however hoped that the revision of the investment code and the more
favorable business climate will cause private investment to increase faster
than forecast in the base case. Also, the improved capital budgeting
techniques should provide the environment for improving the efficiency of
investment.
63.       On the budget front, the Government plans to introduce measures
in 1988 and 1989 to increase tax revenues following recommendations made by
recent IMF technical assistance missions. Nonetheless, as a percentage of
GDP, total budgetary revenues are slated to increase only marginally in
1988 and to reach the 1985 ratio of 13 percent again only in 1990, largely
because the expected low export prices will dampen the growth in export tax
receipts. Current expenditures (excluding net lending) are expected to
decline from 13 percent of GDP in 1987 to 11.6 percent in 1990 and
thereafter expand in both real and nominal terms as the resource situation
improves. Expenditure on wages and salaries are expected to decline
sharply during 1988-90 especially as the result of the Government's civil
service reform; thereafter they are projected to remain constant as a ratio
of GDP at 6.1 percent. However, expenditurs on materials and supplies will
expand to 2.3 percent of GDP by 1990. Net lending in support of the
coffee, cotton, and other sectors, which had expanded rapidly in 1986-87,
and compensation payments to departing civil servants, will peak in 1988 at
4.5 percent of GDP. It is expected to decline sharply thereafter with the
improvement in local currency export prices and the closure of the
compensation program for departing civil servants. Current expenditure,
excluding net lending, is slated to approximately equal domestic revenue in
1988; government budgetary savings are expected to become positive in 1989.
64.       The Government's growth objective represents rates of economic
expansion needed to stabilize per-capita incomes during the remainder of
the 19809 and build the basis for accelerated growth during the 19909.
These objectives are realistic, and take into account the time-lags in
raising economic productivity as a result of the overhaul of the incentive
systems. The full growth potential of structural adjustment under the



- 30 -
circumstances presently faced by the CAR can only be expected to be
realized over the medium to long term. Moreover, the realism of these
objectives is supported by the expected squeeze on Government resources
during the remainder of the 1980s due to the expected low levels of export
tax receipts and the exceptional "bunching, of debt service obligations
(para 69).
65.       Downside Risks.  The Government's growth scenario for the medium
term, which assumes a rigorous and sustained implementation of the
adjustment program, is retained as the base case presented here (Table 3,
and Annex II). While the Government is committed to the reform process,
opposition by vested interests could weaken Government's commitment to the
structural adjustment program and result in delays. In addition, the
external environment faced by the CAR may not improve as rapidly as
expected under the base case. The Downside Risk Case (Table 3) illustrates
the combined effect of such program slippages and adverse external factors.
The salient features of this scenario are:
(a) international prices realized for key export commodities are
10 percent lower than those of the Base Case Scenario by 1995;
(b) supply responses in agriculture and industry are weaker than
expected in the Base Case Scenario as a result of slow
improvements in the incentives environment;
(c) the level of public investment only recovers partially from its
present low level due to failure to prepare and expand the
pipeline of viable projects as a result of weak investment
programming;
(d) slower growth in private investment; and
(e) delays In resource mobilization and restructuring of current
public expenditure, particularly slow progress in the
implementation of the civil service reform.
66.       These slippages would result in a less efficient public sector,
increased difficulties in reversing the decline of the export sectors,
lower overall GDP growth, and considerably more precarious internal and
external balances. Scheduled debt service payments would amount to
29 percent (33 percent including outstanding arrears at end 1987) of
exports of goods and services. In addition, savings and investment as a
percent of GDP would be substantially lower than in the Base Case Scenario,
thus providing a weak basis for satisfactory growth in the remainder of the
1990s. It is this outcome that the SAL is designed to prevent.



- 31 -
External Financing Requirements
67.       CAR's balance of payments under the base case can be expected to
show substantial imnrovement over the medium terms the current account as
a percentage of GDP (net of public transfers) is expected to fall to
16.5 percent and 12.7 percent in 1990 and 1995, respectively, from
19.9 percent in 1987. However, the external financing requirements over
the period 1988-92 will remain heavy: exports will recover gradually from
their presently depressed levels and there will be a critical debt service
hump during 1988 and 1989. In order to support the Base Case Growth
Scenario, CAR's overall external financing requirements over the period
1988-92 are estimated to be US$1.3 billion, or some US$250 million per
annum (Table 4).
68.       Grants are an important, albeit declining, source of foreign
capital in support of the program. The disbursement profile for public
grants shows annual net dibursements of some US$130 million per annum. CAR
receives grants for budgetary support, development projects and technical
assistance from France, the EEC, the Federal Republic of Germany, and other
multilateral and bilateral donors.
69.       The profile for public and publicly guaranteed debt, including
1DA, over this period shows annual average disbursements of about
US$100 milion. These projected disbursements are consistent with the
public investment program and include disbursements from loans committed
before end 1986, as well as firm commitments in 1987 and projected further
commitments. The latter includes IDA, IMF, and other multilateral and
bilateral sources, and is based on an analysis of past disbursements, the
project pipeline, and support by multilateral and bilateral donors for the
adjustment process leading to the mobilization of funds for balance of
payments support. However, over the period 1988-92, there will remain a
financing gap of US$45 million.
70.       Complementing the expected adoption of an IMF program in 1988,
the Government has requested a meeting of the Paris Club for mid-1988. In
addition, to complement the partial consolidation of external arrears in
1988, the Government intends to request a multi-year debt rescheduling
covering the period 1988-90 from its creditors. As a result, a large
proportion of the resources needed to cover the gap is expected to take the
form of debt relief. In addition, fresh money will need to be attracted,
possibly through the medium of co-financing of IDA's fast disbursing
operations, failing which imports will fall in real terms, depressing
further economic activity. The Bank will assist the Government in the
coming month of this year to mobilize additional resources for 1989-90 to
meet the residual financing requirements. The willingness of donors to
come forward in support of the CAR depends critically on the Government's
ability to continue to fully implement the structural adjustment program.
Given the Government's record during the first phase of the structural -
adjustment process, and the eligibility of the CAR to the Special Program
of assistance for low income, debt-distressed Sub-Saharan countries, it is
reasonable to expect that such support will be forthcoming.



- 32 -
Table 4. Control African Republics
External Finncing Requirements.
(millione of US8)
1997     1998     1989     1990     1991     1m
Current Aceount Balance /1/:                      -216      -213     -224     -220     -194     -205
Amortization lLT Debtt                             -14       -29      -J2      -28      -25      -27
IMF (net):                                           S         4       -7       -8       -8       -8
Change In Reserves (net):                           -7       -24        6        C      -14       -4
Total Flnencing Requirements :                     -232     -284     -268     -261     -285     -289
Disbursents Grants:                                 120      152      129      183      126      126
.1w Budgetary:                                     22        87       17       16       1S       1S
Project:                                       44        56       66       S8       66       55
Other (not):                                   66        61       67       S8       aS       56
Drawings Pubite and Guar. Debt:                     100      11t      103       94       99      108
*/w Comitments prior 12/81/88:                     68        88       19       15       10        6
*/w SAL I:                                    18         9        0        0        0        0
Now Comitments:                                82        77      a8        79       89       96
c/w IDA Fast Disbursing:                       2       31        22       14       16       18
Other IDA:                                 0        8        10       20       28       84
illateral DAC:                            20       18        19       22       28       26
Other Official:                            9       25       38        28       23       25
Drawings Private Debt and DFI:                        5        2        a       11       12       13
Other Capital Flo":                                  8         0        0        0        0        0
Total Financing:                                   282       269      240      238      285      242
UA  /2/                                              0        15       18       14        0       -8
For Memorandum:
Non-Project Financing:                              67       100       51       S0       80       28
o/w Loans:                                         a6      e6         84       14       15       18
*/w IDA:                                       20       40        22       14       16       18
Grante:                                        22       ST        17       16       15       16
Project Financing                                   108      106      128      188      189      146
o/w Loans:                                         05        52       69       so       84       90
o/w IDA:                                       10        8        14       24       81       8O
Grants:                                        44        65       66       58       55       65
Notes: /1/ Excludes net publie transfers.
/2/ Excludes debt service on gap financing.



_ 33 -
The Social Impact of Adiustment
71.       During the period of SAL I (1986-87) GDP per capita stagnated.
Despite very unfavorable external circumstances, incomes in the rural
areas, where most of the poor reside, rose as a result of higher producer
prices for coffee (despite the deterioration of external terms of trade),
the liberalization of domestic trade and the abolition of official prices
for food crops. The latter measures led to a substantial increase in
foodstuff production and trade which contributed to the fall in the urban
cost of living. The containment of the civil service wage bill, however,
caused urban income to bear the brunt of the adjustment. Efforts were made
to promote private sector activity and mitigate these detrimental effects
on urban incomes, but tangible results were slow in coming.
72.       Until 1990, average GDP per capita is expected to remain fairly
stable, after which it is expected to grow modestly. The subsidies for
cotton and coffee will enable agricultural income to be maintained despite
the continued deterioration of external circumstances, while the structural
changes in these sectors will lay the foundation for productivity growth.
Agricultural incomes should benefit from (a) implementing the policy
measures that will follow the review of the food aid program designed to
further promote production of locally produced foodstuffs; (b) the
collection and dessemination of market information; and (c) from further
market liberalization.
73.       Urban incomes are expected to suffer as the overstaffed and
inefficient civil service and parapublic sectors are cut back. However,
the SAL strongly emphasises growth in the private sector, particularly in
the transport and trade sectors, and the creation of a more positive
environment for privare enterprise generally. In addition, the burden of
transition will be eased through the 'Personnel Bank' which will grant
departing civil servants lump sum severance payments as *seed money' to
help them start in private business. Training will also be available to
redundant or reassigned civil servants to facilitate their absorption into
the private sector or other agencies, At the same time, the provision of
credit for people who might not otherwise have access to it is being
promoted and is designed to open alternative employment opportunities in
the private sector. In addition, the Government is studying providing a
special line of credit to departing civil servants witltin the context of
SHE projects, in particular in the transport sector. The Government is
also examining the possibility of sub-dividing some of the large abandonned
coffee plantations. Many of these have stands which could continue in
production for several years with minimal investment in pruning and
maintenance. The concept is to provide interested departing civil servants
with mini-plantations.
74.       With a lower share of current expenditure used to finance civil
service wages, expenditures in the education and health sectors, both of
which have for many years been denied adequate supplies and operate at a
sub-optimal level, will increase. This, in combination with the structural
reform envisaged under the recently approved Education Project should



- 34 -
substantially improve the provision of social services and in the final
analysis promote employment opportunities for the least-advantaged groups.
Health sector work has also been progravmed to proceed in parallel with
this.
75.       The Government will, with Bank assistance, explore ways of
reaching the poor through increased collaboration with NGOs. The
possibilities for such collaboration are to be identified in tripartite
consultation between the Government, NGOs and the Bank. As a start, in the
context of the preparation of the Third Technical Assistance Project in
mid-1988, consideration will be given to financing pilot undertakings,
possibly in the form of lines of credit to micro-enterprises in the
informal sector or through rural development programs in the areas of
storage and marketing of food crops.
76.       The rural poor will also benefit from proposed operations in
agriculture (improved extension, research and credit) which should increase
both their access to new assets and their returns from existing assets. In
the longer term, the quality of life of the most vulnerable elements of
society are expected to improve under proposed Bank-assisted operations in
the primary education and health sectors.
77.       Under the structural adjustment program, the distribution of
income has shifted to the benefit of the rural sector where most of the
poor live. The costs of adjustment in urban areas would largely be borne
by civil servants, and the arrangements referred to above are specifically
designed to protect this group from undue hardship. In order to better
plan programs to assist the most vulnerable groups and intensify its fight
to alleviate poverty, the Government has requested World Bank and UNDP
assistance to mount a Social Dimenaions of Adjustment Project. The project
willt (a) strengthen the institutional capacity of the CAR administration
to identify, appraise, and evaluate additional programs for poverty
alleviation; (b) carry out economic and social studies on the implication
of adjustment5 and (c) developing and maintaining adequate data bases on
the social dimensions of structural adjustment, which will enhance the
Government's ability to monitor the impact of adjustment as SAL 11 proceeds
and to introduce further compensatory measures to mitigate the negative
aspects. The Government is in the process of establishing a working group
to undertake the preparation of this project which will include
representatives of the main ministries concerned, interested donor
agencies, and NGOs.
Risks.
78.       A program as comprehensive and detailed as that adopted by the
CAR is clearly not without risks. The principal ones are discussed below.
79.       International 1-tces of Key Exports.  The medium-term prospects
outlined above are baseu n certain assumptions concerning export receipts
for coffee, cotton, timber, and diamonds. Moreover, international prices
of the main agricultural crops determine to some extent tax receipts.



- 35 -
Factors which threaten the stability of export receipts and tax receipts
include the vagaries of the weather, the volatility of world prices,
exchange rate fluctuations and the economic conditions in the
industrialized countries. However, the CAR's medium-term prospects have
been analyzed conservativelys the unlikely event of weaker-than-projected
prices would raise CAR's requirements for external financing if lower
producer prices or further cuts in the civil service wage bill are to be
avoided. Hence, in the case of further decreases in international export
prices in local currency terms, the Bank would support the Government in
its effort to raise further concessional external financing.
80.       A Weak Private Sector Response.  Another important risk with
respect to the adjustment process concerns the possibility of
weaker-than-expected responses from the private sector. The Government is
sending strong positive signals to the private sector through programs to
encourage participation and to eliminate policy barriers to the development
of private sector activity. With the growth of private investment
dependent on the confidence of entrepreneurs, both local and foreign, and
on the Government's willingness to continue to pursue its structural
adjustment program, it is clear that the actions the Government takes over
the next one or two years will be of critical importance.
81.       Stabilization Costs.  A further risk lies with the political
pressures that may be placed on the Government to slow down the pace of
reform. An important source of such pressure is likely to be public
employees who have seen their incomes decrease in real terms and whose
numbers are slated to be reduced as a direct result of stabilization
measures. The Government is aware of these difficulties and has included
in its program specific measures to assist redundant civil servants to be
absorbed into the private sector. The implementation of these programs
(relocation, training, redundancy payments and SME promotion) are aimed to
minimize this risk.
82.       Implementation Capacity.  The Government's SAL program is
ambitious, involving a number of clearly defined actions ranging over a
wide area of critical issues. Despite its strong commitment, there is a
risk that the Government's ability to implement the program fully may not
match its commitment to reform. The existing and proposed IDA-financed
technical assistance will help alleviate this risk. In response to
slippages in program implementation during the first SAL, the Government
has significantly strengthened technical assistance in those areas where
the slippages took place. In addition, IDA staff will allocate a
considerable amount of supervision support which will be greatly
facilitated by the opening of the Bank's new Resident Mission which is now
in hand.



- 36 -
PART V - THE PROPOSEDI CREDIT
Financing
83.       It is proposed that the Government's adjustment program be
supported by an IDA Credit of US$40 million equivalenc. to be disbursed in
two equal tranches. The second tranche would be released only after the
Government has made satisfactory progress in implementing the program and
specific&lly in meeting the conditions listed in para 89 below.
84.       The proposed Credit is expected to be disbursed over a 12-month
period. It would finance 5 percent of projected imports of goods and
non-factor services and 7 percent of CAR's official external capital
requirements over the two-year period 1988-89.
85.       Cofinancing by the African Development Fund is proposed in the
amount of U/A 20 million (US$25 million equivalent) on standard AfDF terms.
These funds would be disbursed in two equal tranches and in accordance with
AfDF procurement and disbursement procedures.
86.       The IMF is supporting the adjustment policy of the CAR through a
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF). First year SAF resources amounting
to SDR 6.1 million (US$7.9 million) have been disbursed. The Policy
Framework Paper for the second year has been updated and was agreed in
substance with the Government in May 1988. A second year disbursement of
SDR 9.1 million (US$12.4 million) will probably be made in July 1988.
Third year disbursement is planned for 1989. Additional non-project
financing will be sought from other multilateral and bilateral donors, in
particular France and the European Comunnity and project financing from the
FAC, EEC, CCCE, BADEA, and other donors. The SAL program has been prepared
in close collaboration with the IMF and key donors have been consulted.
Monitorable Actions
87.       The specific measures to be supported by the proposed Credit are
set out in the Government"s Statement of Development Policy (Annex V) and
are summarized in a matrix in Annex VI which also sets out the timetable
ewvisaged.
88.       During the preparation of SAL 1, the following was achieveds
(a) completion of the report on the physical and financial
implementation of the 1987 public investment program and of the
three-year rolling public investment program for 1988-90;
(b) approval by Government of the operating procedures for the
"Personnel Bank" and the program for voluntary departures, of the
agreed action program on implementing the staffing plans (plan
d'effectifs) and transfer of redundant staff to the "Personnel



- 37 -
Bank'; targets for civil service departures and for the wage bill
in 1988 and 1989 have been set;
(c) implementation of the agreed plan for reorganization of the
Ministry of Rural Development initiated;
(d) adoption of a family allowance system that would reduce the
eligibility age for children from 21 to 18;
(e) adoption of a program to increase tax revenue by reducing customs
exonerations and exemptions in line with the recommendations of
the April 1988 IMF fiscal report and further specific revenue
enhancing measures as specified in para 35;
(f) establishment of the Coffee Price Support Fund with private
sector participation, adoption of a plan aiming to reduce
CAISTAB's activities in exporting and price stabilization; and
(g) adoption of a new Investment Code which was reviewed by IDA.
89.       It has been agreed with the Government that the availability of
the second tranche will be contingent upon satisfactory overall progress in
implementing the SAL program and in particular upon the following actions
being taken in a manner acceptable to IDA:
(a) preparation and adoption of a three-year rolling public
investment program for the period 1989-91;
(b) adoption of an action plan to reform the legal and institutional
framework for the parapublic sector;
(c) settlement of remaining arrears of the State to parapublic
enterprises (CFAF 1.89 billion) and preparation of a plan of
action to settle cross debts between the three major utilities in
1989;
(d) preparation of parastatal privatization/liquidation report for
1988 and on satisfactory progress in the rehabilitation of the
three major utilities: SNE, OCPT, and ENERCA;
(e) implementation of the civil service reform in accordance with the
agreed schedule, including achievement of the wage bill target
for 1988 and inclusion of the wage bill target for 1989 in the
1989 Loi de Finance;
(f) adoption of agreed budgetary revenue enhancing measures in the
Loi de Finance for 1989 and implementation of emergency and
temporary revenue raising measures in the case that 1988 revenue
targets are not achieved;



- 38 -
(g) achieve substantial progress in the preparation of a flexible
coffee producer pricing system and a floor price for the 1989190
coffee season and elimination of the present system of an
official marketing margin; completion of the financial and
management audit of CAISTAB and adoption of program to
restructure CAISTAB; and
(h) adoption of a strategy for the management and conservation of
forestry resources.
Management and Administration of the SAL Program
90.       The Government established a high level inter-ministerial
Committee (Comite de Suivi) to supervise the preparation and implementation
of its adjustment program before Board approval of SAL I. In order to
simplify program supervision and management, this Committee is also charged
with the supervision of the cotton sector adjustment program. The
Committee will concentrate its attention on the major measures and general
progress of the adjustment program, with detailed day-to-day supervision
being left to lower level working groups. The Committee is chaired by the
Minister of Economy, Finance, Plan and International Cooperation, and
includes the Ministers of Commerce and Industry, Rural Development and of
the Civil Service, the Secretaries of State for Plan and the Budget and
other high level officials. The Technical Secretary of this Committee is a
high level official attached to the Presidency. The Committee is supported
by a small secretariat. In addition, the Committee is assisted by
long-term experts funded by the IDA-financed Second Technical Assistance
Project, and the Bank has recruited a macroeconomist, under the IDA-only
T.A. program, to serve as economic adviser to the Minister of Economy,
Finance, Plar and International Cooperation who has played a key role in
supporting the Committee in the implementation of the SAL I program and in
the preparation of the program to be supported by the proposed Credit. The
technical assistance provided through the IDA-financed T.A. Project has
been substantially reinforced by the recruitment of additional experts in
SME/industrial promotion, incentives policy, parapublic sector management,
macroeconomic policy and investment programming. Finally, the opening of
the Bank's Resident Mission in Bangui will significantly facilitate
supervision by IDA of the implementation of the adjustment program.
Coordination with the IMP
91.       The SAL program has been prepared in collaboration with the IMF
and there has been close collaboration between Bank and Fund staff both in
Washington and Bangui. Bank staff assisted in the elaboration of the IMF
standby programs particularly on investment programming, national accounts,
agricultural prices, and civil service and parapublic sector reform.
Recognizing that stabilization is a pre-requisite for successful
adjustment, the Government has prepared its SAL II and the second year SAP,
concurrently and in close consultation with both institutions. It is
expected that the Fund program will be presented to the IMF Executive Board
in July. In May 1988, the Government jointly with the Bank and Fund



- 39 -
updated its medium-term macroeconomic and financial strategy in its Policy
Framework Paper for 1988-90, which will serve as the basis for the second
year SAP financing.
Procurement, Disbursements, and Retroactive Financing
92.       The proposed Credit would finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of
eligible imports (excluding luxury consumer goods, defense, items and goods
intended for military use). Direct imports by the Government would require
international bidding for contracts above US$l million and three price
quotations for goods under US$1 million to be eligible. International
bidding will be done by using bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
Imports by the private sector would be in accordance with normal commercial
practices in the CAR, which are acceptable to IDA. Financing of imports of
petroleum products and foodstuffs would each not exceed 35 percent of
disbursements under the proposed Credit. Eligible private sector imports
for SAL financing are not large if petroleum imports are excluded. Many
imports are financed by other donors and the long borders are difficult to
patrol resulting in relatively large amounts of illegal imports. Because
of these problems disbursements under SAL I were slower than expected and
there were substantial delays in financing crucial components of the
program. Disbursements under the Cotton Adjustment Operation have also
been slower than anticipated because of the above-mentioned documentation
problems. SAL II contains a number of measures that directly address these
problems, e.g., the reduction of customs exemptions, improvements in
customs administration and improved coordination between the Ministries of
Commerce and Finance. In addition, to expedite disbursement, up to
US$4 million (10 percent of the Credit) for imports made between
April 1, 1988 and Credit signature would be eligible for financing.
Contracts for imports of less than US$10,000 would not be eligible for
financing.
93.       To facilitate disbursement and procurement, a special account
would be established at the Central Bank on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA. At the request of the Government, upon Credit effectiveness, IDA
would make an initial disbursement of US$4.0 million into the account. The
account would be replenished regularly and up to the limit of the first
tranche on the basis of: (a) fully documented reimbursement applications
for import contracts exceeding US$100,000; and (b) statements of
expenditure for import items between US$10,000 and US$100,000.
Disbursement applications would be aggregated with a minimum replenishment
application of US$500,000.
PART VI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
94.       As of end February 1988, 17 IDA Credits have been made to the
CAR, totalling US$163 million equivalent. Of this, appoximately
US$100 million equivalent was lent for investment in, and rehabilitation
of, the transport, education, and agricultural sectors. The balance,



- 40 -
US$60 million equivalent, has been lent for structural adjustment,
adjustment of the cotton sector, and for technical assistance. Total
disbursements to date total US$126 million equivalent.  Total coQmitments
during FY89-90 are expected to be in the order of US$120 million, as
compared to US$73 million in FY86-87.
95.       Our long-term goal is to assist the CAR re-establish sustained
per-capita income growth. Since 1986, *he Bank's assistance strategy has
been amplified and has emphasized policy-based lending. Its main thrust is
to support the Government's adjustment reform efforts through lending and
economic and sector work. Two fast-disbursing loans have been approved, a
SAL in September 1986 and a Cotton Sector Adjustment Operation in
July 1987. For the Government to be able to maintain momentum in the
adjustment process, financial support through a series of fast-disbursing
loans is crucial in the face of the serious difficulties caused by the drop
in world prices for the country's principal exports and the very tight
public finance situation.
96.       Given the CAR's relatively weak administrative capacity and its
lack of trained manpower, technical assistance will continue to be needed
for the foreseeable future, with strong emphasis on institution building.
Two technical assistance projects have so far been approved for the CAR and
have been instrumental in strengthening CAR's planning capacity.
Activities have included assistance in preparing the current five-year
plan, in preparing and negotiating the 1985 debt rescheduling agreements,
in preparing and implementing the structural adjustment prograrF in
drafting significant sectoral legislation (especially in forestry and
mines), and in preparing and implementing the Government's policy for the
civil service and the parastatal sector. A third technical assistance
project, to come on line as the ongoing project reaches completion in
December 1988 would be designed as a flexible support mechanism for SAL II
as well as for sectoral programs. In addition, institutional issues and
corresponding training activities will be strongly emphasized. The Bank
has seconded one expert to the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Plan and
International Cooperation (para 90), and another to the Ministry of
Transport to assist in the areas of transport planning and rural roads
expansion.
97.       To implement and elaborate the macroeconomic adjustment measures
taken in the context of the Government"s structural adjustment program,
Bank group strategy includes operations at the sectoriproject level:
institutional development projects to build up agricultural services and
improve the management of forestry resources through the elaboration and
implementation of a forestry exploitation plan based on sound conservation
principles; sector programs focusing on overall sector investment
institutional strengthening and priority recurrent expenditures (e.g.,
transport, energy, water supply); and social sector projects to develop
human resources, to improve basic social services and expenditure patterns
in health and education and help in offsetting the social costs of
adjustment. The possibility of further adjustment support will be examined
in light of CAR's performance and financial needs in the future.



- 41 -
98.       Agriculture, including forestry, is clearly the first priority.
In addition to the ongoing Cotton Sector Adjustment Program, two operations
are planned in FY89-90: an agricultural extension and research project to
address institutional reform and the elaboration of an effective
agricultural support system; and an integrated forestrylenvironment project
which aims at improving the capacity of forestry services to provide for
rational use of forestry resources, protect the environment and provide
incentives to private entrepreneurs to rehabilitate, modernize and expand
operations in the forestry sector. A project in the SME sector is also
being prepared to complement the SALs in the areas of industrial promotion.
Infrastructure, in particular roads, is another priority area given its
importance for agriculture and general high sector costs arising from the
CAR's land-locked location. In addition, the main issues of the energy and
water supply sectors need to be addressed. A transport sector project is
being prepared to strengthen sectoral institutions and the road maintenance
program, including for rural roads, as well as to address some issues of
management of the international routes to the sea. Water supply and energy
projects to rehabilitate and improve the management of the two parastatals
providing these key services and make necessary infrastructural investments
are being designed. The energy project will also address issues relating
to petroleum pricing and procurement. In the social sectors, an education
sector project (approved in December 1987) is supporting the Government's
efforts to reorient its education strategy within the framework of the
structural adjustment program to give a more effective response to the
nation's real manpower needs through strengthening planning and budgeting
capabilities and financial and human resource management. Improving the
quality and efficiency of the primary education system is a major objective
of the Credit. Finally, work will shortly begin on a health sector
project, with the key objectives of improving the coverage of basic
curative and preventive health services, developing an AIDS prevention
program and rationalizing human and financial resource utilization in order
to achieve the maximum social rate of return.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
99.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
100.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 17, 1988



- 42 -                      ANNE  I
Page 1 of 4
Definitions of Social Indicators
The definition of a particular social indicator may    Total,fertilit,r rate - Average number of children that
vary among countries or within one country over    would be born alive to a woman during her lifetime,
time. For instance. different countries define "urban    if during her childbearing years she were to bear
area" or "safe water" in different ways. For more    children at each age in accordance with prevailing
detailed dcfinitions. see the technical notes to the    age-specific fertility rates.
World Development Indicators.                   In,lant (agedf 0-) mornalit6 rate - Number of infants
per thousand live births, in a given year, who die
AREA (thousand square kilometers)               before reaching one year of age.
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and    Cdiild (aged 1-4) mortality rate - Number of deaths
inland waters.                                  of children, aged 1-4. per thousand children in the
Agricultural (percentage oJ'total) - Estimate of agri-   same age group, in a given year.
cultural area used for crops. pastures, market and  Fantily planning - atceptors. (thousands) - Annual
kitchen gardens or lying fallow, as a percentage of    number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
total.                                          ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
ning program.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - 1986 GNP per capita    Fanily planning - users (percentage of married %om-
estimates at current market prices. calculated by the    en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas.    age who are practicing, or whose husbands are
practicing, any form of contraception. Child-besaing
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                 age is generally 15 to 44, although for some coun-
Total population - mid-year (millions), 1986 data.  tries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
Urban population (percentage of total) - Different    groups.
countries follow different definitions of urban pop-
ulation which may affect comparability of data    FOOD, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
among countries.                                Index offood production per capita (1979-81 = 100)
Poputlation growth rate (percent) - total and urban -    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
tions.                                          seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Number of years a    mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
mortality at the time of its birth were to stay the    trients (for example, tea and coffee are excluded).
same throughout its life.                       They include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals, vegetables,
Population projections                          oil seeds, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
Population in 2000 - Projections of population    livestock products. Aggregate production of each
given total population by age and sex, fertility and    country is based on national average producer price
the demographic parameters of mortality rates, and  weights.
migration in the baie year 1980.                Per capita supply of calories - Computed from energy
Stationary population - Projected population level    equivalent of net food supplies available in a coun-
when zero population growth is achieved: i.e., the    try, per capita, per day. Available supplies comprise
birth rate is constant and is equal to the death rate,    domestic production, imports less exports, and
the age structure is stable, and the growth rate is    changes in stock. Net supplies exclude animal feed,
zero.                                           seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in food
Population density, agricultural land - Population per    processing, and losses in distribution.
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.    Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein
Population age structure (percent) - Children 0-14    content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
years, working age group 15-64 years, and people of    supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
65 years and over as percentages of population.  all countries, established by United States Depart-
Crude birth rate - Annual live births per thousand    ment of Agriculture, provide for minimum allow-
population.                                     ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand    grams of animal or pulse protein.
population.                                     Population per phksician - Population divided by the



- 43 -                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
number of practicing physicians qualified from a  and nrral - Conventional dwellings with electricity in
medical school at university level.               living quarters, as a percentage of all dwellings.
Pvpulation per nursing person - Population divided by
the number of practicing graduate nurses. assistant    EDUCATION
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  Enrollment rates
Population per hospital bedl - Population divided by  Primary school enrollment - total. male andfemale
the number of hospital beds available in public and  - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
private, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    percentage of school-age children as defined by each
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments per-    country, and reported to Unesco. While many coun-
manently staffed by at least one physician.       tries consider primary school age to be 6-1 1 years,
Access to saq  usater Ipercentage ol population) -    others use different age groups. For some countries
total, turban, and rural - People (total, urban. and  with universal education, gross cnrollment may ex-
rural) with reasonable access to safe water supply    ceed 100 percent since some pupils are younger
(includes treated surface waters or untreated but    or older than the country's own standard primary
uncontaminated watcr such as that from springs,    school age.
sanitary wells. and protected boreholes). In an urban  Secondary school enrollment - total, male andfem-
area this may be a public fountain or standpost    ale - Computed in a similar manner, but including
located not more than 200 meters away. In rural    pupils enrolled in  vocational, or teacher training
areas this implies that members of the houschold do  secondary schools. The age group is usually 12 to 17.
not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total
fetching water.                                   students enrolled in school divided by the total
nuumber of teachers.
LABOR FORCE                                         Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percent-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active,    age of children starting primary school, that contin-
including armed forces and unemployed but exclud-    ue until grade six.
ing housewives and students.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as a percer  INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
age of total labor force.                         Energy consunption per capita (kilograms of oil
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    equivalent) - Annual consumption of commercial
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    primary energy (coal, lignite, petroleum, natural gas,
labor force.                                      and hydro, nuclear ar.d geothermal electricity).
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining. construc-    Income distribution - Income (both in cash and kind)
tion, manufacturing and electricity. water and gas as    accruing to percentile groups of households ranked
a percentage of total labor force.                by total household income.
Participation rare (percent) - total, ntale, andfentale    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
- Participation rates .re the percentage of population  motor cars seating fewer than eight persons.
of all ages in the labor force. These are based on ILO  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) -
data on the age-sex structure of the population.  Average circulation of a "daily, general interest
Age dependeney ratio - Ratio of population under 15,    newspaper." defined as a news periodical published
and 65 and over, to the working age population (age    at least four times a week.
15-64).                                           Estimated absolute poverty income kvel (US$ per
capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
HOUSING                                           level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Average size of household (persons per household) -    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
total, urban, and rural - A household consists of a    are not affordable.
group of individuals who share living quarters and  Estimated population below absolute poverty income
main meals.                                       level (percent) - Percentage of urban and rral pop-
Percentage of dtvellinigs uith electricity - total, urban,    ulations who live in "absolute poverty."



- 44-                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Reference Groups (MIRE)
Most
Recent                     Lower mid
1965        1973    Estimate   Low-income         income
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)           1,019       1.113        1.330
Female (                            49          49          49           31          29
Agriculture (%)                     89          so          72           72          55
Industry (Y)                         3           5           6           13          16
Participation rate (%):
Total                               59          56          53           41          35
Male                                62          60          56           54          49
Female                              56          33          50           28          20
Age dependency ratio                 0.8         0.8         0.8          0.7         0.8
WOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                                            s
Urban                               ..           ..
Rural
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                               ..          ..
Urban
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Pt-imary: Total                     56          64          77          97          103
Male                      84          88          98          109         110
Female                    28          41          51          84           97
Secondary: Total                     2           4           16I         32          40
Male                     4           7          24          41          48
Female                   1           2           8          25          39
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                             54          65          62           36          32
Secondary                           16          31          55           18          20
Pupils reaching grade 6 (%)           ..          36          49           49          71
INCOEFE. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)                22          35          33         310          345
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households'          ..          ..
Highest 20%                         ..          ..
Lowest 20%                          ..
Lowest 40%                          ..
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural                                                       49a
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                               ..          ..
Rural                               ..          ..          91a
Passenger cars/thou pop.             2.1         3.3           ..        0.3          4.0
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)            0.2         0.3           ..       16.0         14.0
IECSE August 1987
Not avoalabIe. Note. Molt reeent e1tialteg of Population and GNP PU Capita are for 19Fi unites etiterwlae noted.
Group avrsaesa are population weighted. CoUntry Coverage dependa on data availability and is not uitom Unie otnerwie4 ntetd.
1M Ficra to any yer between 19i2 nd 190:1973 between 1970 and 197, end * e et eent entimat betnee 1960 and 19e.
e. 1907



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Reference Groups (URE)
Most
Recent                     Lower mid
1965       1973    Estimate   Low-income         incom
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)    623.0         623.0       623.0
Agricultural (% of total)           7.7         7.8         8.0
GNP PER CAPITA (current USS)           80         120         290         260         820
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)           1,735       i.970       2.521
Urban pop. (% of total)              27          34          45          22          36
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                         1.6         2.3         2.1        2.5
Urban                                         4.7         4.6         3.8        4.2
Life expect. at birth (yrs)          40          44          49          60          58
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                    3.962
Stationary pop. (thou)                                 12.000
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                 36          41          51         349         284
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                           39          40          42          31          39
15-64 yrs                          87          86         55          59          55
55 and above                        4           4           3           4           6
Crude birth rate (per thou)          34          38          42          29          36
Crude death rate (per thou)          24          21          17          10          11
Total fertility rate                4.5         5.1         5.6         3.2        3.6
Infant mort. rate (per thou)        169         148         138         72          82
Child death rate (per thOu)          47          42          27           9          t1
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)           ..          ..
Users (% of married women)         ..          ..
FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1979-81    100)               .         105          97         115         108
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)              2.130       2.240      2.050       2.339       2.514
Proteins (grams per day)           38          43          42         55          s6
Pop. per physician (thou)            ..          ..        22.4        8.9         6.9
Pop. per nurse (thou)                ..          ..          ..        2.4          1.4
Pop. per hospital bed (thou)         ..          ..         0.6         1.1        0.8
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total          ..          16
Urban         ..         40
Rural        ..           S
Population Growth             Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
s r                ~~~250                            S_______
S.                           1 0-120
2 -~~~~~~~0
$    .               to ~~~11.                     a.. -,  o    lt_-;
non  tn-|s     t O      ti70       I'O     110 1O            0O
eX lttl^LtRC^t RUIU                    *   rtt  ^ttego.lU
0 C"  AftiA tRtFuu                               CINTOROUP A!."  * Q  _ __ _



17-Iht-88                                               - 46 -                         ANNEX  II
Page 1 of 4
Table 1. Central t'rican Republic:
- Sum Cae  Scenario -
National    t
(bi l lons o CPA)
Current Prices                      act,        et.                             projectione
1985    1986    1987    19a8   1989    1990   1991    1992    1998    1994    1995
Ateriulturo VA                 117.8   124.5  124.s   180.2  188.2   148.8   160.1  172.4   186.8  202.2  219.2
Industry & Mining VA            40.8   42.8   40.4   41.2   43.8   48.8   80.6   85.2   60.0   65.8   71.6
Other VA                       138.2  140.7  139.6   142.8  148.0  188.1  164.8  176.7  190.8  206.4  228.4
Indir ct Texae                  22.4   22.6   18.9   19.4   20.3   21.9   28.8   2s.6   27.7   80.0   92.6
aDP                            816.1  880.8  829.5   838.2  846.9  870.0  s99.2  429.9  488.0  804.2  848.8
porta aIm                      126.8  112.0  107.5   107.8  111.5  117.6   124.S  188.4   148.2  184.2  166.8
a/* Merchandise               99.7   87.9   80.9   80.4   ss.7   8s.8   94.4   101.0  108.S   117.0  128.8
WFS                        26.6   24.1   26.6   2s.9   27.7   29.0   80.8   32.4   84.6   87.2   40.0
Total R.esurces                442.4  442.8  481.0  440.5   458.4  487.8  824.1  S68.8  808.2  688.4  718.1
Exporte SIFS                    79.8   84.8   84.8   88.9   SO.6   68.1   77.9   64.6   92.7   12.0  112.5
o  Warchandie                 86.7   44.9   89.2   86.0   48.6   49.7   85.0   62.7   68.4   78.0   82.4
N.a                        21.1   19.4   15.8   16.9   17.0   18.8   19.9   21.9   24.8   27.0   80.1
--CF                            40.9   40.8   84.8   82.8   S8.9   40.9   48.8   48.9   88.0   60.2   66.1
0o,ern_ent                   84.8   84.0   23.6   2s.8   80.1   88.8   86.8   40.1   44.4   48.8   82.9
other                       6.8    6.8    8.0    8.8    6.8    7.6    6.8    6.7   10.8   11.8   18.2
Change in Stocks                 0.0    0.2    0.2    0.8    0.4        0.8    0.8    0.8    0.9    1.0    1.1
Investment                      40.9   40.5   84.9   88.1   87.8   41.6   48.1   49.7   85.9   61.2   67.2
Conqwetion                     821.0  S37.9 0   41.7  888.5  880.5  877.9  400.0  428.9  4So.6  498.2  SS.8
a/p Public                    43.6    4a8.    48.8   40.8   40.6   42.8   4s.8   80.0   54.4   S9.0   84.2
Private                   27S.1   294.1  298.2  818.2  819.8  885.1  888.7  S87.0  405.2  486.2  489.2
*S5                             -8.6   -7.1  -18.1  -20.8  -18.6   -7.9   -0.8          1.0    8.4    9.0   13.8
am                              16.9   17.1    8.4   10.2   10.8   17.2   24.7   25.8   26.4   81.8   84.0
Contant 1988e pri                    act.         tojectin
U85   19oe    1967   1986   1989    19         1991    1992    1098    1994    199o
Agriculture VA                 117.8  120.8  128.2  129.6   184.9   140.7   148.8   182.4   18.8   168.8  172.8
inWustry & Mi nIng VA           40.8   41.8   40.6   41.0   42.8   44.0    4s.8   48.8   U1.0   ss.8   S6.8
Other VA                       136.2  188.5  140.4  141.7  141.8   145.0   180.8  166.2   162.2   166.8  178.6
Indirect Taxes                  22.4   22.1   19.0   19.8   19.6   20.7   21.8   22.7   28.6   24.6   28.6
8D16.1   80.9  825.2  881.8  888.4  850.5  865.4  3S8.1  898.4  412.2  420.6
eorW ON SF                     128.8   181.8  123.4  128.1  127.8  180.9   186.8  141.4   146.8   181.7  157.2
*/a Merchandiae               00.    106.1   94.2   95.2   97.1  100.1   104.8  106.8   112.6  116.8  120.9
NFS                        28.6   25.2   29.2   20.8   80.2   80.8   81.8   82.9   88.9   85.1   86.8
Total Resourcee                442.4  482.2  448.6  488.6  465.7  481.4  601.7  S21.8  841.9   8. SO            7.0
Export. OSFS                    70.8   60.9  68.8   88.7   71.7   77.r   82.2   86.6   91.8   96.4  101.7
e/v Merchandlie                86.7   49.6   48.7   48.1   88.2   86.2   61.4   64.8   67.8   70.6   74.4
NM5                        21.1   20.8    1.6   17.0   18.8   19.8   20.8   22.8   28.8   25.8   27.8
oFeF                            40.9   40.5   3S.8   34.4   88.0   41.0   44.2   47.0   80.1   82.7  S5.7
*/w Government                84.6   84.2   80.0   27.8   81.0   88.4   88.9   87.9   40.4   42.8   44.6
Other                       6.8    6.8    8.8    6.8    7.0    7.6    8.8          9.1    0.7   10.4   11.1
Change In Stockc                 0.0    0.2    0.2    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.7    0.7    0.8    0.8    0.9
Inveatmant                      40.9   40.8   86.8   84.7   36.8   41.8   48.0   47.7   60.9   56.8   86.8
Consumption                    821.8  S41.S  84s.4  888.2  885.7  862.1  874.8  887.2  899.7  414.0  418.6
o/v Public                    48.6   48.8   44.6   41.2   40.7   41.6   48.7   45.7   47.8   49.9   82.2
Private                   278.1  298.2  802.0  818.0  818.0  820.8  380.8  841.8  881.9  364.1  878.6
Soure: Official Overnaent stltletic; an Staff ei_tes andl proJections.



-47 -                         ANNE II
17Ray<                                                                                      Page 2 of 4
Table 2. Central African Repubilec:
- as" Ca" Scenrio -
National Aceounte o Percent of O-
act.        at.                               projection.
1988    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1998    1993    1994    199S
Agricwture                        87.1S   s7.6e   88.511  89.15   89.9s   40.1S   40.11   40.11   40.1   40.1t   40.1I
Industry a ilaing                 12.7    12.95   12.81   12.451   2.5S   12.61   12.71   12.81   12.91   18.01   18.11
Other                             48.15   42.583   48.93   42.71   41.S1  41.41   41.21   41.11   41.0t   40.91   40.91
88PI:                             92.91   98.11  94.25   94.913  94.11   94.11   "4.01   94.01   94.01   94.01   94.0S
mport Good a Ws                   40.03S  88.01   83.2a   82.95    2.S11   8.81   81.38   81.01   80.81   80.6t1   80.41
Export. Goded N                   25.29   19.4S   18.811  16.91   17.51   18.41   19.81   19.71t 19.911  20.29   20.60
Consumption                      101.8S  102.29  1OS.6t  106.15  103.91  102.1S  100.23   99.81   98.1   98.29   97.81
Investmnt                         12.91   12.29   10.8S    9.91   10.71   11.29   11.81t  11.61   12.0S   12.11   12.83
Sourc: Official Goernmnt atatiaNica; and Staff *ntil_te and projectiona.
T.ble 8. Central African Rlepulic:
- Bass Ca" Sconark. -
Min ela E_ic Indicator.
_ac.            * t.                               proj3ctiona
1984    1981    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    199        1994    1998
w Groeth Rate                      0.8S    8.8S     1.81    1.4S    2.01    2.15    8.es    4.S1    4.OS    4.01    4.S3    4.S1
88? Grow" Rate                      NA     4.41    8.cs   -1.0s    2.01    2.2.      8.81a    .71    4.11    4.15    4.8S    4.4S
ODY/Capita growth Rate              NA      1.71    0.41   -8.8s   -0.61   -0.43    1.1S    8.03    1.41    1.41    1.7S    1.83
Pri. Comm./Capita Growth Rte        NA    -4.08    4.81   -1.S       1.71   -2.81   -0.81    0.81    0.81    0.4S    0.9S    0.81
Debt Service (in tI)              28.7    29.9    28.8    8a.8    86.4    68.0    89.4    80.8    84.0   85.6    60.0    65.3
Debt ServicwMs                    1S.8S   18.25   16.15   1S.S   298.71   29.0C   2S.651  19.8S   1S."    17.75   17.#1  17.15
Debt Service/P                     8.7s    8.41    8.03    8.15    4.7       8.2ii   4.4      8.81s   8.ss    8.ts    8.6S    8.6S
Oroia Uvetant/0DP                  9.05   12.91   12.32  10.81    9.9s   10.71   11.13   11.tS   11.61   12.013  12.15   12.81
omatic Savlngs                    -8.15   -1.81   -2.93   4.81   -6.11   -8.9t   -2.15   -0.2S    0.25    1.21    1.8S    2.81
National SavInqm/QOP               8.93    8.81    8.92    2.01    8.01a   8.1       4.7S    6.23    S.tS    6.15    6.2       6.81n
Narginal Natinal Savings Rate       N     0.00   -0.79    2.08    0.8       0.12    0.82    0.88    0.04    0.08    0.09    0.09
PubiIc Inveatment/lOP              8.41   10.91   10.81    8.9s    7.91    8.71    9.01    9.29    9.8        9.85    9.6s1    9.7S
Publc S vinga/P                     NA     4.8S    8.15    8.ss    7.81    8.91    S.91    5.71    8.81    8.2S    8.01    4.71
Private Investaent/P               O.8S    2.03    2.03    1.91    2.01    2.15    2.2#    2.81    2.23    2.81    2.6S    2.61
Private  SvingF8                    NA     1.1S    2.1S   -1.81   -4.29   -2.71   -1.93    0.81       o.n3    0.91    1.29    1.81
Ratio Poblic/Private Unveatment   14.4     8.8      8.2     4.6      8.8     4.2     4.0      8.9     4.2     8.8      8.8     3.7
Gvern_mnt Rivowue/COP             14.93   18.29   12.15   11.8S   12.81   18.01   18.15   18.8S   18.71   14.03   14.2t   14.51
Goern_ent Ependiturea/GOP (1)     2.93   26.81   2s.71   26.93   27.11   25.29   24.15   94.01   24.03   23.45   28.45   28.81
Dteicit or Surplum/QDP (l)        -9.01  -18.15  -18.81  -14.45  -14.81  -12.23  -1O.9S  -10.81  -10.81   -9.45   -9.2n   -s.9c
Dxport O    Growth  Rat             NA    14.91  -12.81   -6.81    0.41    9.11    8.81    8.91    8.81    8.4S    8.SS    8.81
Exports *"/8P                     28.81   2S.25   19.41   18.81   18.21   17.83   18.4S   19.5    19.71   19.91   20.23   20.61
I1ort. an Growth Rate               NA    21.s8    8.91   -t4.0     1.81    1.61    2.81    4.93    8.71    8.81    8.81    8.61
imports QF/0OP                    88.81   40.01   88.81   88.293    2.29   82.11U   1.81   81.81   81.03    O.0.1   80.t6   S0.45
Current A_cut (in USI)           -2S.9   -8.4   -67.8   -94.6   -es.8   -96.8   -81.5   -71.4   -80.7   -91.7   -99.6  -101.9
COrrxat Accont (in USI) (2)      -97.4  -12S.6  -162.0  -214.9  -288.6  -225.8  -221.4  -196.8  -207.2  -2.0  -228.2  -28.2
Curren Account/01P                -8.71   -7.6S   -7.1S   -8.81  -4.911  -7.61   -S.86  -4.41   -8.65  -4.9t  -4.93   -4.01a
Current Account/dOp (2)          -18.81  -7.S1  -17.01.  -19.91S -19.41  -17.9S -16.8S1.  -14.71  -14.S3  -18.9   -8         -12.71S
i:te.: 1) Include f*orbin financed devlopmnt expenditur.
2) Rat of pubic tranefera.
Source: Official Goern_ent statistics; nd Staff e*ti etee and projectioen.



17-1,11w-ft                          - 48  -                        ~~~~~~ANNE   II
17 _Nap-                                                    -48 -                            Page 3 of 4
Tale 4. Cetral African Republat
- BMe  Ca. Scenrio -
Iblanc of P.q_.nte
(Mllon of UN)
Oct.       ceo                               projection
1905    106   1W7    19w        1        190    1        1992    1998    1994    1995
Merchandil Esepoat (fob)         180.7   190   180.S   180.8   156.5   18.9   198.4   209.0   227.9   249.9   274.8
lsrecAndi. lawort (elf)         -2l2.0  -258.7  -269.2  -m.5  404.   -21.9  -814.6  -880.6  -801.9  -890.0  -4.9
Trade Ib lan                     -91.8  -128.9  -US1.0  -154.2  -140.0  -141.1  -121.2  -127.0  -184.0  -140.1  -140.1
Ntn-Factr Servic" (credit)        47.0    W.0    U1.0    57.9    62.0   6e.7    60f.4    78.2    01.0    90.2   100.
On-facator Service. (debit)      -59.2   -09.6   -.7    -97.9  -100.9  -108.0  -101.5  -106.0  -l11.8  -124.0  -188.4
Resource Balanc                 -105.5  -1W7.6  -176.   -194.2  -104.9  -179.9  -110.8  -162.4  -100.8  -174.0  -179.2
Factor Service. (not)            -10.2   -12.2   -19.S  -24.5   -28.8   -25.6   -20.0   -26.5   -27.7   -29.0  -41.6
Factor Servie  (credit)          0.1     2.8     2.9     0.7      8.0     8.0     8.7     4.0      5.0     5.7     0.7
Factor Services (debit)        -18.0   -15.0   -22.4   -25.8  -27.5   -29.4   -29.7   -80.5  -82.7   -85.2  -88.2
o/w lentere  LT                -4.6    -9.0   -14.4   -10.6   -1 9   -19.4   -20.2   -21.0   -28.0  -24.7   -27.0
II Carges.                  -1.0    -1.7    -2.0    -2.t   -1.7    -1.1   -0.6         0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Intarat cap                  0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    -1.1   -1.9    -2.0    -2.8    -2.4    -2.0    -2.0
Other                       -5.1   -4.7    -0.0    -0.5   -0.7    -0.1    -0.6    -6.7    -7.8   -4.0   -8.7
ooode and Sorvice blance        -118.8  -149.8  -190.0  -218.7  20.7  -205.6  -102.8  -10.9  -190.0  -208.5  -210.8
Currrt Treader. (not)             60.8    82.0   101.4   185.4   112.4   116.9   110.9   100.2   104.8   100.9   101.8
o/a Private (net)              -11.8   -18.0   -18.9   -10.9   -16.5   -14.9   -14.0   -18.8   -19.0   -19.7  -20.5
Pubic (net)                 72.1    95.5   120.3   152.0   129.0   182.8   124.9   12.56  128.8   128.6   122.3
Currett Acount Balan            -501.4   -07.5   -4.0   40.8   -6.8   -0.5   -71.4  -40.7   -91.7  -99.0  -100.9
Capital Account Iblanc            40.0    78.6    97.1   100.0    98.1    92.0    00.1    80.1    9S.0   106.2   11.0
Public & ar. Capitol (net)       54.0   gS.0    85.7    05.7    70.9    65.8    74.0    75.5    77.7    84.0    90.0
o/ DOiburaa.ete                 60.0    79.0   100.0   114.9   102.7    90.6   9V.0   101.0   106.4   114.0   121.1
o/l Post Diebursig IDA     0.0     6.0    S5.4    68.8    88.0    14.0    15.0    12.5    12.5    1.S4       12.5
A lrtiation                 -0.1   -11.8  -14.4   -29.2  -51.S   -29.5   -14.6  -27.0   -28.7  -2I.4   40.8
GNP (net)                         0.0      0.0     0.0   1S.1    18.8    15.4       2.1    -0.7     8.2     2.2      1.4
0/u Disburaeenta                 0.0     0.0     0.0    18.1    18.8    15.4      2.1    -0.0      4.0     6.6     0.8
Amortimation                 0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   -1.5   -4.4    -4.0
Private "LT (net)                -0.2      5.7     5.5     2.2     0.4    11.8    22.0    18.8    15.7    18.8    20.8
Otr Cap. t Error. & Onlaana      -0.0     4.9     6.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Ovtrall balanc                   -5.4    11.1      2.5    19.6     1.0     8.5    16.7      7.4     4.0     5.8      0.0
0.0
Financing                         5.4   -11.1    -2.5   -19.0   -1.6   -4.5   -16.7   -7.4    -4.9    4.5    41.0
0/a Changa In Resrve_            6.0    -7.6   -17.0    4.0      8.0      5.0   -13.S    .4.8    -4.9    4.8    -.0
DP  (not)                    1.7    40.2     4.9     4.1    4.8   -4.5   -4.1    -.1           0.0     0.0     0.0
Arrrea  (net)               -2.2    43.8    10.4   -18.6      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
For _ e.anduw
Re_sure blanc/0P:                -14.13  -14.43  -18.43  -16.03  -14.13  -18.4S  -11.71  -11.53  -10.93  -10.85   -9.6s
Currnt Aceaut/00Pt                -7.60   '7.18   -8.08    4.93   -7.03   -s.es   -.43   -8.85   4.S9  -4.93   4.0
Currnt Account (nt of
Public tr*n.fere)/           -17.85  -17.03  -19.93  -19.43  -17.93  -O16.tl  -14.73  -14.05  -.1.91  -ss8.1  -42.71
Publi t4 aear. Oi.buraente/CP:    0.03    6.13    9.81a   9.v5111   0.1    7.03    7.4S    7.21    0.95    0.63      O 6.6
Debt Service/Export. of
Goad. a Services:            -18.#  -18.18  -10.13   -0.75  -29.03  -20.0s  -19.1  -18.93  -17.71  -17.13  -17.13
P  (a ilions of USO)             708.0   955.5  107.7  11.9  121.7  15.7  1281.1  1480.4  1550.4  16S6.2  1820.2
Exchane Rote (C/WlA):             449      846     n0o    275      275     275      800     800     S0o    8so    a80
Soure: Official 0ovrnant etatitice; and Staff ..t1_... eWd projetion.



-49 -                         ANNiEX  II
7.11. 8. Oantaal Afn I  i    la,             Page  4 of 4
O-we Cas. scenaiZo -
ext.rol 0.t Flo
_._...._ .._ ....__.   . .   ---...___----..-._- .---_______-__.__________----------------------------------- ... ________
AmS    ami    9i?    *9i1s   1eee    Amqo    a991     191290             19994     i
To1al iur     martiactl..         6.1    11.$    14.4    29.2    81.8   2u.       24.6    27.0    28.7    29.4    30 e
Intra"ct            6.6      9.S    14.4    16.8    17.9    19.4    20.2    21.    23.0    24.7    27.0
Tt  co   e*    12.7   11.9    2ii.il   45.7    49.6    47.9    44.8    48.6    81.7    64.1    87.8
DIFchOra                          1.6     1.?     2.0     2.8      1.7     1.1     0.8     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Regrcla_             9.7     S.9     8.0     6.6    12.4      8.t     8.1     3.1     0.0     0.0     00
teal 11             11.2     7.6     8.0   10.7    14.1       9.8     8.7     8.1     0.0     0.0     0.0
tOTAL        AmsXt1a..6l..        18.7   17.1    17.4    87.7    44.S    37.0    27.7    30 1    28.7    ".4    30.8
ateret              6.2    11.8    16.4    18.7    19.6    20.6   20.6    21.6a   23 0    24.7    27.0
tal I .6tSUVIce    28.9    28.6   813.8    66.4    63.9    87.S    48.5    W1.7   5i.7   84.1    57.8
cap          Aawtlaatlon          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     1.8     8.4     4.9
Interea             0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     3.1     1.9     2.8      2.8     2.4     2.8     2.6
Toal 6.6 Smica       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     1.1      a.9     2.8     2.8     8.9     6.9      7.5
0o  t01AL J.   irtIxatlg         15.7    17.1    17.4    S7.7    44.S    87.0    27.7    80.1    80.2    82.8    85.7
tt.te"t             iS.2    31.8    16.4    13.7    20.8    22.4    28.1    28.9    28.4    27.2    29.6
Toal 0.s $"Ice    26.9    28.5    SS.6    66.4    68.0    S9.4    80.6    84.0    85.6    60.0    68.8
Debt Urvive-/ft. *N*    Slvg
1eI. Dv             U8.#   U8.U    16.ati  28.7ii  28.08   2.61   19.-8   1a.91   17.7t   17.3   17.1U
llel. DtS            7.6i   11.13   18.63   28S.6    2.7   U19.861   17.91   17.61   17.73   17.Si   17.1A
Rel. IW             8.4t    8.C     8.1    4.7s    s.n1   4.41    8.6s    8.6s    8.63    8.61    8.63
-al. lW              1.68    2.23    5.71t    .61    4.O3    8.73    8.289   3.63    S.61    a. V     8.61
COM&T/01,                        44.13   41.53   48.611  80.61   84.41   86.03   60.21   61.13   61.-6    61.6X   61 n
Sorce*s 0ffi 1. Oasaant-l staloaIes and Staff eatet  and projaction.
Tibl 6. Central Attfra iR4 .btlct
- gaa. Cm" Scoset, -
Financial 20.retios. d Central Adainlatration,
ma percent o# CDP
act,            eat.                             peejeetlata
10114   1siu    as      aim    J.ee    19*       1990    1991    192    tam    194    199
Current nowenue                  19.4    16.8    17.2   17.9    20.2    18.7    18.5    10.8    18.6    18.2    18.0   17.8
araft.                          8.S      6.1     5.1     S.1     7.6     6.7     8.8      6.8     4.9     4.2     8.0    8.8
os_satbi                        14.2   a1.      12.1    11.8    1.6    18.0    18.1    18s 8    1.7   14.0    14.2   14.8
e/a T. Newome                  11.9    11.9   t1.2    10.4    10.9   11.    U.8    12.0   12.2   12.8   12 7    12.9
o/.  iVort Taa_            1.6     1.6     0.8    0.1       0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1    0.1
Total ExpeAlborms                68.2    26.8    28.7    26.2    27.1    26.2   24.0    24.0    24.0    23.4    28.4    28.8
o/w Curre"t Eapesdtur"          18.6    12.1   1t.1    18.9    12.7    11.9    11.6    11.4    11.8    11.2    11.2    11.2
soaa A alries                6.4     7.7     7.8     7.8     7.2      6.8     6.1     6.1     6.1     6.1     4.1      6.1
6.terla  Purlm_a &service    1.9     1.7     2.0     2.2     2.1      2.8     2.8     2.8     2.8     2.8     2.8    2.8
Not LaindI                    0.0     0.0     0.8     1.S     4.8     2.8      1.0     1.0     1.0     0.2     0.2    0.2
Capital      te               9.9     3.6    12.7    11.2     9.9    11.0    11.6    11.7    11.7   12.0   12.0   12.0
ibla.
Curnt Accouat                     6.2     6.2      8.0     4.6     7.5     6.6     7.1     7.1      7.8     6.9     6.3    6.6
Ove l bla once                   - 8.6    4.0   .8.8    -8.8   .4.9   -6.8   -5.4   -8.5    -6.4    -5.2    -5.4   .6.6
Financing                         3.      6.1     8.6    68.       8.4     8.4     4.1     8.8     8.4    8.        5.4     8.8
Arrar (.t)                     -1.4    -0.6     0.0     1.0    -2.6    -0.8    -0.8   -0.7    -0.2       0.0     0.0    0.0
bawatic ()                     0.6      0.9     1.2     0.2     1.0     0.1   -0.2       0.4     0.4     0.4     0.8     0.3
FBraie  (at4) 4.7                       7.6   7?.       7.2     7.1     5.6     4.9      5.6     5.8     6.0     3.0    5.0
Oaore  braing (Tot. Lea..)    8.S     6.6     6.3     9.8     9.5     3.1      7.o     7.4     7.2     6.9     6.8     6.6
A_rtlattien /1/             -0.6    -0.7    -1.0   -2.1    -2.4    -2.8   -2.1    -1.9    -1.9   -1.6    -1.7   -1.7
Pin.lna Sam                       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    -1.5   -1.1   -1.3   -0.2        0.0      0.1     0.0   -0.8
/1 Sehtuled proptaatiln a. of 1am.
burec: official Govearnmet atatace, NW Stuff aatteA and projectiona.



- 50 -                    ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section Is Timetable of Kev Events
(a)  Date of first presentation ot Bank           January 1988
(b)  Appraisal mission                            March 1988
(c)  Completion of negotiations                   May 1988
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness                July 1988
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
none
Section IIIt Special Conditions
Disbursement of the Second Tranche of US$20 million equivalent would
be dependent on satisfactory progress in carrying out the Structural
Adjustment Program and in particular on the following measures being
taken in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
(a) preparation and adoption of a three-year rolling public
investment program for the period 1989-91;
(b) adoption of an action plan to reform the legal and institutional
framework for the parapublic sector;
(C) settlement of remaining arrears of the State to parapublic
enterprises (CFAF 1.89 billion) and prepare a plan of action to
settle in 1989 cross debts between the three major utilities;
td) preparation of parastatal privatizationlliquidation report for
1988 and on satisfactory progress in the rehabilitation of the
three major utilities: SNE, OCIPT, and ENERCA;
(e) implementation of the civil service reform in accordance with the
agreed schedule, including achievement of the wage bill target
for 1988 and inclusion of the wage bill target for 1989 in the
1989 Loi de Finance;
(f) adoption of agreed budgetary revenue enhancing measures in the
Loi de Finance for 1989 and implementation of emergency and
temporary revenue raising measures in the case that 1988 revenue
targets are not achieved;
(g) achieve substantial progress in the preparation of a flexible
coffee producer pricing system and a floor price for the 1989/90
coffee campaign tnd elimination of the present system of an



- 51 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
official marketing margin; completion of the financial and
management audit of CAISTAB and adoption of program to
restructure CAISTAB; and
(h) adoption of a strategy for the management and conservation of
forestry resources.



- 52-                      ANNEX IV
Page I of 1
Status of Bank Oroup Operations In the Central African Republic
(in mlilione of US dollers, *o of February 28  1988)
A. Statement of Bank Loans: nal
B. Statement of rDA Credits
Credit No.   Year  Borrower   Pu                           Orininal I/ D1sburm  V/ Undisbursed 
Principal
Total through FY82  CAR                                                    86.8          0.00
A023-CA      1986   CAR       Struct. Adj. Credit              80          88.61         0.04
1160-CA      1082   CAR       Tech. Assist. I                  4            8.99         0.01
i681-CA      1988   CAR       Tech. Assist. II                 8            8.78         6.56
1258-CA      1982   CAR       Highway                          16          17.18         0.27
1859-CA      1088   CAR       Education 11                     11           8.48         8.16
1868-CA      1987   CAR       Education III                    18           0.00        20.00
1387-cA      1988   CAR       Cotton Area Rural Dove.          10.4        10.11         0.72
681-CA       1986   CAR       National Livestock               11.9         2.80        11.61
1886-CA      1987   CAR       Cotton Sector Adj. Credit        15.0       98.74          7.21
Tota l                                         126.8        98.74         48.48
LI Net of cancellation; disbursing credite only
V Diacr.pancihs between the sum of disbursed and undisbureed amounte and the orlilnal prlncipal
aro due to fluctuations In the exchange rate betwen the dollar and the SOR. IDA credits
after 1980 are denominated in SDRo, using as exchange rate prwviling at the sae tim  of
the credit negotiations.



-53_                   ANNEX V
Page 1 of 28
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(SAL II)
Government's Development Policy Statement
(May 1987)
I. BACKGROUND
1.        In 1980-81 the Government implemented an emergency program to deal
with the deterioration of the economy, attending to the most urgent matters
first. The first priority was to rehabilitate the country's economic
infrastructures by improving its road system. While satisfactory results vere
achieved on that score, the same cannot be said of the other sectors covered by
the emergency program. The overall economic situation continued to deteriorate
seriously owing mainly to the political instability and social disorder that
prevailed until September 1981.
2.        From the second quarter of 1982 the Government adopted an interim
recovery plan designed to restructure the public service and the parastatal
sector and reanimate the principal export sectors. Results were satisfactory,
particularly on the financial side. But the 1983 drought jeopardized that
financial stability, bringing about a collapse of agricultural production and
hydroelectric energy generation and greatly reducing river transportation. In
1984 and 1985, however, the economy showed a clear improvement, marked in
particular by positive per capita GDP growth.
3.        It was against this background that the Government drew up and put
into effect the 1986-90 Five-Year Plan, designed to put the economy on a growth
course. The following are its main elementst
a.   redefinition of the role of the State in the economy, limiting it to
the social services, priority public services and basic



- 54-                  ANNEX V
Page 2 of 28
infrastructures 1 and leaving the production of goods and services to
private enterprise;
b.   greater encouragement of private-sector production in the areas of
agriculture, forestry, stockraising, mining, handicrafts and small
and medium enterprises (SMEs) with the object of stimulating job
creation;
c.   trimming the parastatal sector and improving its management;
d.   reform and rehabilitation of the civil service by reducing staff
levels, raising competence levels and improving organization.
4.        It was also against this background that on September 23, 1986 the
Government concluded a two-year credit agreement with the World Bank concerning
a Structural Adjustment Program -- SAL I -- which consisted of a series of
measures designed to create the conditions for sustained economic growth in
conformity with the guidelines of the Plan outlined above.
5.        Execution of SAL I was satisfactory on the whole, thanks to the
Government's political will and determination. However, the magnitude of the
reforms in rela_ion to the country's limited administrative capacity and
unfavorable external trends (the collapse of world prices for all the C.A.R.'s
major exports and the fall in the value of the US dollar) caused the schedule
for achievement of some goals to lag. Delays occurred in the public sector
(establisbment of the Personnel Bank, preparation of the three-year rolling
investmeAt program, adoption of the legal instruments relating to the
government guarantee policy); in the parastatal sector (preparation of
consolidated accounts, privatizations, reorganization of CAISTAB, and
settlement of cross debts); and in the private sector (private investment
monitoring, export promotion and SME financing). The Government nevertheless
remains determined to step up the adjustment effort, pursue the reforms already
programmed and apply new measures in light of the experience of SAL I under the
second phase operation -- SAL II.
II. OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
6.        In view of the need to restore basic equilibria, the goal is
henceforth to speed up economic growth to a rate of 42 a year toward the end of
the Five-Year Plan (1990) while at the same time improving internal and
external balances. These goals will be pursued throught
lState responsibility is henceforth limited to education and training,
public health, public utilities (such as water and electricity supply, urban
development), national defense and justice.



- 55-                 IANNEX V
Page 3 of 28
a.   a growth strategy based on development of the agricultural, cottage
industries and SME (agricultural.industrial and commercial) sectors;
b.   continued action to create an environment conducive to private-sector
activities and investment in accordance with free market principles;
c.   continued reform of the civil service to rationalize and simplify
staff management and to bring the wage bill under control;
d.   completion of the process of rationalizing the parastatal sector
(privatization, liquidation and restructuring) in order to improve
its efficiency and progressively reduce the burden it places on the
public finances;
e.   mobilization of domestic resources in order to bring public finances
back into balance while allowing grcwth of private savings;
f.   an external financing strategy designed to mobilize adequate
resources, with a concession element of at least 25?, for execution
of the adjustment program (including investments) in line with the
goal of restoring the country's balance of payments and debt capacity
pursuant to the guidelines contained in the 1986-90 Five-Year Plan.
Implementation of this strategy calls for a series of macroeconomic and
sectoral measures which are described below.
III. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
A.Fiscal and Budget Policy
7.        The Government regards the budget as an essential instrument of its
economic policy. It therefore attaches great importance to a balanced budget
that is also consonant with the general trend of development of economic
activity.
8.        The measures to encourage production which have been implemented
under SAL I or are foreseen under SAL II are expected to generate increased
private sector revenues and private saving. Nevertheless, an effort is
necessary in the the public sector -- the budget and the parastatal enterprises
-- to mobilize the additional resources needed to finance investments and
ensure their efficient use. Accordingly, the Government is firmly committed to
mobilising its budgetary resources and restructuring its expenditure so as to
make greater budget savings.
9.        Current expenses, which exceeded current receipts by 1.2? of GDP in
1987, will be equal to current receipts in 1988 and there will be a surplus
estimated at CFAF 4.5 billion on the current account in 1990 sufficient to
finance the major part of the Government's contribution to the investment
budget. Measures have been included in the 1988 budget and further measures
are to be taken in the 1989 and 1990 budgets to bring this about. Current
expenditures were subject to rigorous examination in preparation of the 1988



-56 -                  ANNEX V
Page i of 28
budget. A particular effort will be made to bring the growth of the payroll
under even tighter controls it will decrease from CFAF 25.4 billion in 1987 to
CFAF 22 billion in 1989. Taking into account interest payments on the debt and
transfers, this should allow the amount of GDP devoted to expenditure for
equipment and services to go from CFAF 7.2 billion in 1987 to CFAF 8.5 billion
in 1990.
Fiscal Receipts
10.        The rates of duties and taxes and the assessment base need to be
determined in such a way as to encourage economic activity and discourage fraud
and tax evasion. Fiscal administration needs to be progressively strengthened
and actively supported so that legislation on the establishment of assessment
bases and fiscal recovery is applied in fact.
11.        Starting from these premises, the Government has decided to draw up
and implement an action program to increase fiscal receipts by widening the
assessment base, lowering nominal rates, and strengthening the collection
services. These will receive all the political support needed to carry out
their mission.
12.        In order to increase tax receipts, which represented the equivalent
of 1OX of GDP in 1987, the following measures have already been included in the
1988 budgets
a.   Income Tax:
I.   increase in the index used for calculating the value in kind of
free housing (from 62 to 10X) and elimination of the 702 margin
in calculating the general tax on income (GTI); according to the
data available to Government, these measures should increase GTI
receipts by 62 in 1988;
ii. income from real estate equity will be included in the GTI
(measure to adopted in June 1988);
iii. work is already in progress to establish a master roll of
taxpayers (December 1988).
b.   'Taxe Compldmentaire':
i.   the rates applicable to certain vehicles, meat, cigarettes,
cigarillos and cigars, perfume, beauty products and articles of
furniture have been increased.
c.   Control Mechanisms:
i.   these will be strengthened through Improvement of human
resources and operational means.
13.        New fiscal measures will be taken over the period 1988-90 to
increase fiscal receipts under the existing system from 10? of GDP in 1987 to
11.8?, equivalent to CFA? 43.5 billion in 1990.



- 57-                  ANNEX V
Page 5 of 28
a.   The customs assessment base will be consolidated and widened through
the abolition of as many customs exemptions and exonerations as
possible and through the strengthening of certain customs procedures;
i.   from January 1989, imports under new loan agreements or state
contracts as well as contracting companies, sub-contractors,
their salaried personnel and all imports made by the State, the
public or the parapublic sectors, will be subject to the normal
fiscal and customs provisions of the law in general force;
ii. diplomatic exemptions will be based on overall quotas
established by the Director General of Customs in agreement with
the concerned chef de mission;
iii.   the Government will participate actively, within the UDEAC
framework, in the revision of the 'taxe unique' system which at
present constitutes a significant fiscal loss for UDEAC's
members;
iv. transit procedures will be reviewed and specific measures taken
to strengthen them (January 1989).
b.   An emergency procedure for recovery of tax arrears will be decided on
In May 1988, applied with effect from June 1988 and recovery
completed by the end of December 1988. This measure is expected to
yield CFAF 500 millions in 1988;
C,   The principle of widening the GTI base which will allow reduction of
the marginal rates will be adopted in May 1988; a study will be
carried out before the end of November 1988 and the major
recommendations incorporated in the 1989 Loi des Finances;
d.  A Master Roll identifying taxpayers will be put in place in January
1989;
e.  Adoption of an updated general tax code (January 1989);
f.   Exceptional, temporary measures to be taken immediatelys
i.   a particular effort will be made to recover taxes collected by
state enterprises but not yet turned over the Treasury;
ii. fiscal controls will be instituted to bring all elements of the
tax base under better control (May 1988). The 'taxe
compl6mentaire' will be raised by 5Z on all imports except for
fuel;
iii. tenants of rented accommodation will pay rent for October
directly to the Treasury, the amount to be credited to the
landlord's GTI account (decision to be taken in June 1988).
Expected revenue from this measures CFAF 200 millions.
Non-tax Receipts
14.        A plan for the progressive introduction of charges for public
services will be drawn up and will come into force at the end of December 1988



- 58 -                 ANEX V
Page 6 of 28
on the basis of pilot user cost-sharing programs for hospital services, water,
education, university cafeterias, etc.
B. Budget Expenditure
Recurrent Expenditures
15.        Financing of the wage bill absorbs a disproportionate amount of
budgetary resources and makes it impossible for the State to provide for either
i) the proper functioning of public services; or ii) the necessary financing
for investments. To reverse this situation, the Government intends not only to
increase budgetary resources but also to reduce the overall wage bill (see
under Reform of the Civil Service).
16.        Transfers for study grants will be reexamined and better adapted to
the achievement of specified objectives so that the education nationals receive
corresponds more closely to immediate development needs as defined in the
ongoing education project financed by the World Bank.
17.        The Government undertakes to redeploy operating expenditures so as
to liberate new resources for priority sectors (education, health). To this
end, savings will be made through pursuing the policy of making cuts in
diplomatic missions overseas and in participation in international
organizations.
The Public Investment Prosram
18.        To maintain a stable rate of economic growth while at the same time
improving the internal and external economic equilibria, the Government will
apply an investment policy to bring the ratio of public investments to GDP from
10? in 1988 to llS in 1990. At the same time, the Government will strengthen
the planning system through a three-year rolling investment program which gives
priority to financially and economically viable projects and takes into account
the social aspects of development. Under SAL I, Government began the process
of three-year rolling investment programming, developed soctoral strategies and
initiated preparation of the 1988-1990 investment program. This investment
program included estimated recurrent expenses and budget allocations for
development projects. The Government also held a seminar on the measures
necessary for reorganization of the Ministry of Plan and now intends to
strengthen its investment program throughs
a.   maintaining the share of priority investments (agriculture, physical
and social infrastructure) at 752 of total public investment;
b.   setting up of a three-year rolling investment program to include,
inter alia, macro-economic projections, a detailed program of
investments, and a dynamic process for financial and physical
monitoring at three monthly and yearly intervals and for revision of
sectoral strategies. All of these documents will be presented at
periodic intervals specified in Attachment 1;
c.   presenting documentation in keeping with the following calendar:



-59 -                  ANNEXV
Page 7 of 28
L.   the draft three-year rolling investment program for 1989-91
(October 1988); and
ii.   a report on progress with implementation of the investment
program for 1988 (March 1989);
Other documentation will be prepared according to the regular
calendar detailed in Attachment 1;
d.   introducing an appropriate methodology to refine its knowledge of
recurrent expenditures deriving from new investments so as to be able
to predict cash-flow needs for sound operation of the projects. For
this reason, recurrent expenditures for each project will need to be
estimated in advance and included in the three year investment
program with the distinction being drawn between wages and other
operating expenses if possible. These estimates should be updated
each year in the context of the three-year rolling program.
e.  making clear distinctions among preparatory studies, gross fixed
capital formation and other development expenditures for every
project in the three year program and presenting information on
recurrent expenditures. These should be updated each year in the
context of presentation of the three-year rolling program.
f.  improving the presentation and substance of the three-year rolling
investment plan by having the State Secretariat for Planning
establish an outline for future documents (September 1980)1
g.   preparing a policy document which establishes the criteria for
project selection by sector of activity (economic and firancial
return, social impact, employment, relevance to the development plan,
debt capacit .-nd recurrent costs) (March 1989);
h.  this policy document will also define the selection procedures to be
applied by the interministerial commissions in retaining only those
projects which meet the above criteria. A project will only be
definitively retained in the investment program when a complete
feasibility study has been done;
i.   reorganizing the State Secretariat for Planning on the basis of the
staffing plan to be completed in June 1988. Its technical and
administrative capacities will be increased to enable it to meet the
above objectives, in particular through making the Projects Unit more
dynamic, through the creation of a Macroeconomic Unit and the
reinforcing of other services (August 1988); and
J.   progressively extending to the household level the estimate of
private investments which was done at the beginning of 1988; so far
this estimate concerns only investment by private companies and
should, in any case, be improved. Responsibility for establishing a
working methodology for monitoring private investment will be given
to the Macroeconomic Unit and to the National Statistical Service
(March 1989).



- 60 -                 ANNEX V
Page 8 of 28
C.  External Debt
19.        Having consolidated its external debt each year since 1981, the
Government decided in 1987 not have further recourse to rescheduling.  Due to
lack of funds, however, the Government had accumulated arrears of the order of
CFAF 5.16 billion at the end of 1987. Furthermore, payments due in the course
of the next three years are relatively high (332 of budgetary receipts or 26Z
of exports of goods and services). The Government will therefore sustain its
efforts to improve external debt management through the following measures:
a.   under the auspices of the Paris Club, it will seek a to consolidate
debt payments and arrears over a period of several years and on
exceptional terms (July 1988);
b.   it will conclude bilateral rescheduling agreements in the framework
of the Paris Club terms (December 1988);
C.   it will not accumulate any fresh arrears.
d. it will neither contract nor guarantee new external debts with a term
of less than 12 years or on non-concessional terms (grant element
less than 25X); it will inform IDA of the terms of these loans,
before they are signed, if they exceed CFAF 1 billion equivalent. It
will strictly limit its short-term borrowing (under 1 year) to
"normal commercial conditions".
e.   it will promulgate, in June 1988, legislative instruments governing
endorsement, guarantee and onlending policies, with the aim oft
i.   limiting new -edorsements to those parastatal companies that
have demonstrated their repayment capacity;
ii.   imposing relending conditions on the parastatal sector such that
the risks borne by CAADE are fully covered;
iii.   neither guarantee nor onlend any new debt to the private sector.
f.   It will strengthen the management resources of CAADE byt
i.   defining its institutional role in management of the debt
(June 1988);
ii.   pursuing its management staff training program;
iii.   improving its accounting system (September 1988);
iv.   completing computerization of the debt accounting system with
the assistance of the World Bank (March 1989);
v.   strengthening internal controls in line with the recommendations
of the ongoing audit 'June 1988).
D. Price and Trade Incentive Policy
20.        In line with its strategy of promoting private investment, the
Government has adopted the goal of instituting a total truth in prices and
market economy policy to ensure optimum resource allocation in the economy. It
will encourage the development of private investment by completing its program
of price and export and import deregulation and eliminating all obstacles to



-61-                   ANNEX V
Page 9 of 28
free private enterprise in Bangui as well as in the interior. In this spirit
the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and SMEs will have a key role to play in
promoting, protecting, supervising and coordinating industrial and commercial
activities, henceforth returned to the private sector, in collaboration with
the other departments concerned, notably the Ministry of Economy, Finance,
Planning and International Cooperation. To be able to carry out this task it
will need reliable and up-to-date statistical data.
Prices and Domestic Trade
21.        The Government has already abolished the systems of indicative
prices for food products, approval of import prices, approval of prices of
locally manufactured products, and quotas for "twin" imports on products that
compete with those manufactured locally (except for sugar). It is also
preparing to:
a.   Complete the reform of Law 601193 establishing the trade regime in
the C.A.R. including price liberalization, in particular:
i.   liberalization of tariffs for road transport of goods
(June 1988);
iU.   as a first step, reduce to 11 the number of products still
subject to *twin' import quotas (liberalization of prices of the
following productst various textiles (5), soap, matches) (May
1988); the objective is to liberalize; all prices presently
subject to 'homologation' before the end of March 1989;
iii.   promulgate a law on domestic competition specifying the
conditions for free circulation and free competition of gc_ds
(entry procedures, issues of credit, flow of market information
etc.) on completion of a study devoted to these questions
(June 1989).
t-   Standardize and simplify the procedures for registering commercial,
industrial or artisanal enterprises to alleviate administrative
constraints on private enterprise while recognizing the need for
keeping track of private sector activities. This simplification
could result in the abolition of the "carte de commercant' and other
multiple registrations (December 1988).
c.   Road Transport: it is a Government priority to make the road
transport system more efficient and less costly. To achieve this,
the sector will be liberalized in two phases - (i) the Government
will take various immediate emergency measures and (ii) will examine
the future development of the structure of this sector and the role
of the BARC. The emergency measures will be as follow:s
i.   Base for determining BARC's turnover tax and commissions: the
official reference rate, fixed by the State, will be abolished
and replaced by an indicative tariff to be based on market
prices and revised every three months in the light of price
fluctuations. The BARC and GTC will make joint proposals on
tariffs based on their invoices (June 1988);



- 62 -                 ANNEX V
Page 10 of 28
ii.   Turnover tax on exPort goods: the Government will apply a 52
maximum rate for the transport of all goods destined for export
(the domestic rate will be maintained at 16.5Z). This tax will
be levied at the production site. Goods in transit through the
C.A.R. will also be subject to the 52 rate (June 1988);
iii.   BARC commission rate: the Government will apply a blanket rate
which will be as low as possible taking into account the cost of
the service and after consultation with BARC, GTC and other
operators. The level of this rate will be fixed by ministerial
larr8t6s no later than June 1988. In the absence of an
agreement by that date, the Government will set the rate at 6Z.
iv.   Voluntary use of BARC: initially, and for domestic transport, it
will no longer be compulsory to use BARC services if loading is
done in a place where BARC is not represented. Moreover for
transport from the interior to Bangui or between places in the
interior, the transporter will be free to choose whether or not
he wishes to use BARC's services and payment will be made to
BARC only if its services have actually been used (June 1988).
d.   The future structure best suited to development of the C.A.R.'s
transport sector (the transport code) will be the object of in-depth
study. The future role of BARC in the context of a market economy,
and in particular, the abolition of its monopoly and the
identification of services it can perform will also be studied. A
study committee will be set up; it will include representatives of
the organisms concerned and possibly a consultant. The Government
will prepare terms of reference and a plan of action for the
committee defining the areas to be examined; terms of reference and
the appropriate bidding documents will be drawn up for the consulting
contract (June 1988).
Foreign Trade
22.        The Government has already taken steps to abolish import permits for
products that do not compete with products manufactured locally and to replace
export permits by simple non-suspensive export declarations.
It now proposes to:
a.   undertake a general rationalization study of the Customs tariff
structure with the object of rationalizing them and harmonizing
effective protection between the various sectors while ensuring
adequate protection for infant industries. The Government will
prepare a plan of action for implementing the recommendations of the
study which may lead to possible revision of the 'taxe
complementaire" (December 1988);
b.   study the degree of protection within UDEAC and its impact on the
efficiency of resource allocation (December 1988).



- 63 -                 ANNEX V
Page 11 of 28
Institutional and Organizational Aspects
23.        In order to achieve the objectives outlined above, the Government
will take the following measures:
a.   A Trade, Industry and SMEs Code will be drawn up.  This, however, is
a lengthy undertaking for which numerous judicial texts will have to
be revised (December 1989). The text of the code should reflect the
Government's liberal orientation.
b. The Government will set up an interministerial commission to ensure
better coordination of economic policy and in the initial stages will
give particular emphasis to the following:
i.   import procedures,
ii.   the commercial code,
iii.   statistics.
iv.   application of the investment code, and
V.   simplification of the texts regulating commercial activity
(June 1988).
c.   The Chamber of Commerce will be reinvigorated and strengthened in
order to play its role of promoting and assisting private partners
more fully. It is the Government's intention to make the Chamber of
Commerce an independent body. A work program will be prepared
(December 1988) to:
i.   eliminate government subsidies progressively and revise the
level of taxes earmarked for the Chamber of Commerce taking
account of its, present and future activities (March 1989); and
ii.   ensure strict application of the Chamber's statutes in all other
cases (December 1988).
d.   This reinforced Chamber of Commerce should be better equipped to play
its role of mediator (ombudsman) between the private sector and the
Government as well as carry out its other activities. The Government
intends to declare by the end of 1989 at the latest that membership
of the Chamber of Commerce will be voluntary.
e.   With assistance from the World Bank and other financiers, and after
study of the experience gained in other developing countries, a
none-stopa reception office will be opened for foreign investors
(March 1989).
f.   The Ministry of Trade, Industry and SMEs will be reorganized on the
basis of the staffing plan already drawn up in order to assist it in
its essential task of promoting productive activities (industrial and
commercial) and developing and diversifying exports (July 1988).



- 64 -                 ANNEX V
Page 12 of 28
IV. THE CIVIL SERVICE AND THE PARASTATAL SECTOR
A.  The Civil Service
24.        The Government has achieved good results in its overhaul of the
civil services tracking down *ghost" employees, eliminating cases of salary
duplication, and programming retirements. Unfortunately, the wage bill/budget
receipts ratio, projected at 56?, will be 67Z for 1987, in part owing to the
fall in budget receipts (projection CFAF 45.25 billion, actual 38.15 billion).
The Government will pursue its policy of reducing staff numbers in the civil
service (about 2,000 officials and state employees are slated to leave the
service) to achieve a wage bill of at most CFAF 24 billion in 1988 and CFAF 22
billion in 1989 as a result of the implementation of the staffing plans in the
various ministries, of improved control over salary supplements (family
allowances, family salary supplement, single salary allowance) and of other
measures to streamline the civil service and public payroll. In the case of a
justifiable lag in implementation of these proposed measures for the reduction
of the public wage bill, the figure of CFAF 22 billion projected for 1989 will
be revised upward. At the same time, the measures to be identified for
rationalization of the indemnities system will contribute to the downward
revision of the projected 1989 wage bill.
25.        With the aim of completing the actions undertaken and consolidating
the gains made, the Government proposes tot
a.   pursue strict application of the retirement system.
b.   pursue and complete the preparation and implementation of staffing
plans to include job descriptions and employee profiles for all
ministries in line with the revised calendar (Attachment 2) (December
1988).
c.   strictly apply the selection procedures for entry into the public
service.
d.   ensure the the effective organization, establishment and start up of
activities of the Program of Voluntary Assisted Departures (PVAD) and
of the the Personnel Bank. To meet the deadlines for staffing plan
implementation, the Government intends to set the PVAD and the
Personnel Bank in place before the end of July 1988. In this
context, the following should be noted:
i.   the PVAD and Personnel Bank will be established by a State Law
(Hay 1988);
ii.   the arrangements for departure from the civil service and the
amounts of compensation applicable will be definitively fixed by
Government decree before the end of June 1988;
iii.   access to the PVAD and the Personnel Bank will be limited to
tenured civil servants currently in service and to permanent
contractuals;



_65 -                  ANNEX V
Page 13 of 28
iv.   the procedures for voluntary departure of civil servants and
permanent contractuals will be stressed. Nevertheless, such
employees will be compulsorily discharged from service after six
months in the personnel Bank
v.   an initial amount of CFAF 2.6 billion will be earmarked for PVAD
and Personnel Bank funds, CFAF 1.8 billion by July 31, 1988.
The Personnel Bank may also be supported by donors and by
training institutions or private sector promotion agencies in
C.A.R.;
vi.   for a period of three years after the application of the
staffing plans, the number of staff (civil servants, permanent
contractuals, interns, casual labor, etc.) specified for each
ministry will not be exceeded, either in the national budget, in
CPRAC's rosters nor on the public payroll.
26.        The Government will pursue civil service reform with the aim of
rationalizing and simplifying the administrative and financial management of
government employees.
a.   These improvements will be implemented in the following stages:
i.   maintaining the freeze on all special statutes now in course of
preparation or approval;
ii.   reform of the general statutes of the civil service and the
harmonization of particular statutes so as to allow for greater
rationalization of civil service indemnities and the significant
reduction of the wage bill (September 1988);
iii.   completing the reorganization of the civil service archives
(December 1988);
iv.   strengthening of the institutional links between the Ministry of
the Civil Service, technical ministries and the public payroll
offices as well as tightening internal controls. The respective
roles of the Ministry of the Civil Service and the technical
ministries in the management of state employees will be defined
(December 1988).
v.   improvement of the computerized management initiated by CPRAC
and its extension to the entire civil service. Short term
technical assistance will be sought for this.
b.   The process of improving financial management, already begun, will be
pursued through the following actions:
i.   strengthening the linkage between budget items and authorized
job positions. Prior to this, the rosters of CPRAC, the
Ministry of the Civil Service and of the public payroll will be
audited by an international firm of auditors (September 1988);
ii.   installing a new system of computerized payroll management (to
be operational by March 1989);
iii.   overhauling and simplifying the entire civil service
compensation system, with special attention to the systems of
bonuses, allowances and salary supplements (September 1988);
iv.   undertaking in collaboration with the Ministry of the Economy,
Finance, Plan and International Cooperation, a study of a new



-66 -                  ANNEX V
Page 14 of 28
system of family allowances with the objective of reducing
expenditure on these allowances (December 1988). In the
interim, children who are not eligible for the family allowance
or who have reached the age of 18 will be removed from the
roster as from May 1988.
27.        Training/Retraining of Civil Servants.  The Government regards
training as a matter of capital importance since it determines the entire
future of the economic and social system. It therefore proposes to take the
following measurest
i.   Draw up in-service training programs and organize seminars,
courses and workshops as complementary measures to the
implementation of the staffing plans and reform of the Civil
Service (to start June 1988);
ii. Use training funds under the Second and proposed Third Technical
Assistance Projects to carry out in-service training during 1988
and up to the end of the staffing plans implementation period.
B. The Parastatal Sector
28.        Up to 1985, the parastatal sector, comprising about 50 companies,
occupied a dominant position in the Central African economic system. Latterly,
these companies have had declining results, in particular with regard to their
finances, and this has the effect of paralyzing the rehabilitation of the
sector. The principal reasons for these problems are:
i.   the fall in international prices for raw materials and the sharp
movement of foreign exchange rates:
ii. lack of control over informal or parallel economic activities
which represent unfair competition for the productive sectors;
iii. State arrears to the sector;
iv. instances of mismanagement.
Measures Already Taken
29.        Conscious of the seriousness of this situation, and in the light of
its new economic policy orientation to disengage from the productive sectors
and promote private enterprise, the Government, under SAL I, began to reform
the parapublic sector. In particular,
a.   companies in the sector were classified as strategic, priority and
other; this has allowed the definition of an overall strategy and
orientation for each company individually and for the sector as a
whole;
b.   set up a system for monitoring the sector, most notably with the
annual publication of an economic and financial analysis of the
sector by the High Commission for State and Mixed Enterprises;
c.   begun the process of reducing the sector to manageable size with the
liquidation and privatization of certain companies.



.67 -                  ANNEX V
Page 15 of 28
30.        With regard to liQuidations, the Government set up a national
commission in charge of liquidations and appointed liquidators. The following
companies have been put into the process of liquidation to date: Inter-RCA,
Central African Investment Bank, National Development Bank, Central African
National Deposit Bank, National Road Transport Company, Centra-Bydro and
SOCEFI.
31.        Privatization.  The following companies have either been privatized
or are about to bes SICPAD and LCA (already privatized); SEGA and SIRIRI
(negotiations with potential partners are ongtoing); SNCT, CICI, SOGEBA, EFBACA,
CENTRACUIRS, and NMCA (earmarked for privatization).
32.        The Government has also begun financial restructuring of the sector
and has started to apply strict financial discipline. In particular it has:
i.   frozen the creation of any new enterprise in which the State
would be the major shareholder;
ii.   initiated a control on all loans endorsed or onlent by the State
to public enterprises by circular letter of September 25;
iii.   identified all subsidies to sector enterprises;
iv.   increased budgetary allocations for State consumption of sector
goods and services by more than 20? in the 1988 budget;
v.   prepared and signed the Ordinance of November 25 dealing with
cross debts between the State and the parapublic sector.
33.        The process of rehabilitating the sector has alsu been started:
i.   firstly, by carrying out a study of the institutional and
judicial environment in which it operates and taking certain
lmmediate measures such as Decree No. 87.203 of July 30, 1987
regulating the appointment of senior staff to posts of
responsibility within the sector. It should be noted that the
arrangements for the appointment of senior staff in Mixed
Enterprises will be modified to conform with existing commercial
legislation;
ii.   secondly, by carrying out audits of the largest companies as
followss SNE, SOCATRAF, and CNPAF, the wildlife agency, (done);
OCPT (accounting audit done, managerial audit ongoing); ON?
(audit done, results awaited); ENERCA (audit under preparation).
iii.   thirdly, by establishing a three-year rolling investment plan
for the main public companies; and
iv.   fourthly, by taking a number of emergency steps in the cases of
SNE and OCATOUR, complementary measures in the case of PETROCA
and rehabilitation measures in the cases of UCATEX and
MANUCACIG.
34.        Limits of Measures Taken.  However important the measures already
taken may be, the Government is nevertheless aware of their limits:
a.   data collection in the sector is satisfactory from the point of view
of indicating the trends but further efforts are still needed for



- 68 -                 ANNEX V
Page 16 of 28
certain companies to provide fiscal documentation within the legal
time limit (four months after the end of the financial year) and for
the accounts submitted to be examined by an auditor;
b.   the liquidation of certain banks and companies, although started in
compliance with the agreed timetable, is now lagging and the costs oi!
the operation could be significantly reduced;
c.   given the narrowness cf the market and the state of their
liabilities, the companies put up for privatization are not easily or
quickly sold;
d.   the financial restructuring of the sector, in particular the settling
of arrears and debts, is not proceeding because of the lack of funds;
New Measures
35.        Realizing the continuing difficulties in this sector despite the
measures taken under SAL T, the Government has decided on the following
measuress
36.        Sector Monitoring.  The High Commission for State and Mixed
Enterprises will continue to publish annual consolidated accounts for the
sector with an analysis of the performance of the major enterprises.
Publication will be at the latest one year after the close of the fiscal year
in question. In additions
a.   the High Commission will carry out a supervision at least every six
months of the major enterprises and will increase the frequency of
its monitoring visits to the enterprises in the sector with the
assistance of a recently recruited second Technical Assistant and the
means placed at his disposal;
b.   the Government undertakes, with the assistance of the World Bank, to
ensure that the accounts of ENERCA, SNE, OCPT, PETROCA, UCATEX,
SOCADA and OCSS are audited within the legal four month limit and
approved by their respective Boards within the following three
months.
37.        Rationalization of Sector Size.  The Government undertakes to take
the necessary institutional measures to establish the rules and modalities
governing the privatization process to ensure the transparency of these
operations and to see that they are carried out at the lowest possible cost
before June 30, 1988. These institutional measures will take into account the
various stages of the operation and will place responsibility for their
implementation on the Ministry of the Economy, Finance, Plan and International
Cooperation in collaboration with other concerned departments in conformity
with the terms of Decree 82.094 of February 17, 1982 which regulates the powers
of the Ministry of Finance in the relinquishing of State goods. In addition,
the Government will:



-69 -                  ANEX V
Page 17 of 28
a.   contribute to the liquidation of liabilities which can not be assumed
by investors;
b.   make official and apply the recent decision to privatize the six
companies cited above;
c. study the possibilities for privatizing further companies; and
d.   publish an annual report on privatization progress.
38.        Liquidations.  The Government undertakes to assist in settling the
liabilities in connection with the liquidation of SOCEFI, INTER-RCA, CUTR, and
CENTRA-HYDRO, by December 31, 1988 and to close the judicial proceedings
relative to their liquidation by that date. In addition, the Government
undertakes tot
a.   reduce the operating cost of the liquidation of the three banks
exercise by 5OZ immediately to limit the size of the negative balance
at closure, which should occur before December 31, 1988;
b.   publish an annual report on the progress of the liquidations process.
39.        Financial Restructuring.  The Government undertakes to pay off its
debts to the parapublic sector (1.89 billion CFAF) by September 30, 1988 and
accompany this with a plan for the settling of debts among sector enterprises
and with third parties. It further undertakes for the future:
a.    to settle its debts to the sector in a punctual manner.
b.   make actual payment for its use of sector goods and services included
in the budget and also to reduce this consumption by regulating use
by the various departments and reducing the areas eligible for free
use of sector goods and services (December 31, 1988).
c.   revise and, if necessary, modify public service tariffs policy in
1988 with the objective of ensuring the financial equilibrium of the
enterprises involved (December 31, 1988);
d.   revise the procedures for drawing up the public enterprises
investment program so as to associate the High Commission more
closely with the process.
40.        Sector and Enterprises Rehabilitation  When the review of the
institutional and judicial environment of the sector is completed, its
recommendations will be reviewed with the World Bank and will be applied with
effect from December 31, 1988. The Government undertakes to participate in
recovery efforts for the atrategic and priority enterprises with particular
emphasis on the findings of the ongoing or projected audits. This recovery
effort will be accompanied by a separations plan to follow on from the
rehabilitation plans which will define the reductions in staff which are
needed. In additiont



- 70 -                 ANNEXV
Page 18 of 28
a.   rehabilitation plans for the three strategic enterprises, OCPT,
ENERCA and SNE vill be drawn up and negotiations begun with the World
Bank and other donors for the application of these plans (September
30, 1988).
b.   in parallel with the reform of the sector's institutional and
judicial environment, the Government intends to establish Program
Contracts defining the reciprocal obligations of the State and the
enterprises. To this effect, a Program Contract between the State
and ENERCA will be drawn up, negotiated and signed by March 31, 1989.
c.   establish a calendar for the setting up action plans for the
rehabilitation of other sector enterprises.
V. ECONOMIC SECTORS
A. Private Sector and SMEs Promotion
41.        The Government attaches particular Importance to the role of the
private sector in the social and economic development of the nation and has
made the development of investment and enterprises in this sector a prime goal.
Particular importance is attached to the role of the sector in job creation.
Moreover, SMEs are particularly well adapted to the present stage of the
country's development because they involve relatively low investment and simple
technologies and can readily adapt to cyclical economic change.
42.        The Government is fully aware that the achievement of its objectives
will be determined by the measures it takes to create a favorable climate for
private sector activity. Firstly, the Government will put special emphasis on
its public investment program, giving special priority to allocation of funds
in support of directly productive activities while itself withdrawing from such
activities in favor of private operators. Secondly, the measures described
above, while geared specifically to improving the overall package of incentives
for the private sector will also have the effect of improving the climate for
private enterprise. Moreover, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and SMEs will
be reorganized. The Government accepts the principle that all monopolies which
might be a potential hurdle to the development of private enterprise, and in
particular of SMEs, should be eliminated (for example, BARC, the 'Conseil des
chargeurs' etc.). In this spirit, the Government undertakes to:
a.   review the legal texts governing private sector activity with a view
to eliminating administrative hurdles. A new investment code
reflecting the new orientation of the State's economic policy will be
promulgated (May 1988);
b.   study the possibility of creating a climate more favorable to the
development of productive private sector activities through
reinforcing CAPMEA with additional structures in an enterprises
center. The study is expected to have three stages:



- 71 -                 ANNEX V
Page 19 of 28
i.   the present status and constraints of professional and technical
training in the C.A.R ;
ii.   the identification of the most significant artisanal sectors and
of their needs;
iii.   the economic viability of the project.  This third stage of the
study would only be undertaken if the two preceding stages lead
to the conclusion that this approach to the problem of
professional and artisanal training is in fact viable (March
1989).
c.   study how the financial structure of the banks, the savings banks and
the postal t der savings (CCP) systems can be strengthened to improve
resource mobilization and the delivery of credit. The major points
to be examined under the study would be: i) the structure, use and
profitability of the banks; ii) the financial restructuring of the
banks, savings banks and CCP; iii) the limiting constraints on bank
credit to SMEs; iv) the means available for encouraging savings and
the delivery of credit to private individuals, taking into account
the potential contribution of NGOs (January 1989).
B. Agriculture
43.        In view of the vitally important contribution of agriculture to the
economy (40? of GDP, 602 of commercial exports and 60Z of jobs), the Government
reaffirms that it accords absolute priority to the development of agriculture
as the mainspring of economic growth.
It will review its overall policy towards the sector on the basis of
the following principles:
- decreasing production costs through increasing productivity and
lowering the costs of marketing;
- streamlining the structures for State intervention in the
production and marketing of agricultural products;
- exploring possibilities for diversification through research and
the introduction of polyvalent extension systems.
To achieve these objectives, the Government will take the measures
detailed below.
Food Crops
44.        The high share of the food crops and other food products subsector
in agricultural value added (40?) nevertheless represents only a small fraction
of its enormous potential. Despite the efforts already made -- abolition of
official indicative prices, repeal of the licensed merchants statute -- certain
structural obstacles still remain: small market size, low population density,
dispersion of production, and deterioration of certain rural roads and market
facilities. To stimulate the growth of the food crops subsector and raise



- 72 -                 ANNEX V
Page 20 of 28
farmer incomes and purchasing power, the Government will take the following
measures with the aim of increasing market openings for food productst
a.   suppression of food products fraud, in particular for vegetable oils
and sugar (ongoing);
b.   imposition of tariffs on imported products which compete with local
production (vegetable oils, meat, milk, flour, etc.) (ongoing);
c.   eliminate all food aid that can compete with local production and
replace it by gifts of agricultural inputs (ongoing);
d.   study the possibilities for SME processing of local food products,
including pre-feasibility studies and search for partners (to start
October 1988);
e.   prepare an action plan for the construction and maintenance of rural
dirt roads which would centralize planning, monitoring and financing
of roads in the Ministry of Public Works and which would also contain
proposals for greater local participation in the associated civil
works (September 1988).
Coffee
45.        Robusta coffee is C.A.R.'s leading agricultural export product in
terms of both value added and foreign exchange earnings. Commercial coffee
production was about 14,800 tons in 1986-87, a sharp recovery from 1985-86 but
still below the 1981-82 and 1982-83 levels. The reasons for the fall in
production include aging of the coffee plants, poor plantation maintenance,
scarcity of labor due to urban migration, theft, and a certain lack of interest
on the part of the owners of industrialized plantations because of their age
and the uncertainty as to whether any one will be willing to take over.
However, the Government intends to do its utmost to increase production and has
set itself a goal of 25,000 tons of commercial coffee a year from 1995 onward.
46.        Measures Taken under SAL I.  Under the first phase of the Structural
Adjustment Program, Government took the following measuress
a.   The price of berry coffee was raised from CFAF 150 to 190/kg for the
1986187 season and maintained at that level for the 1987/88 season.
b.   The quality price differential was increased in order to upgrade the
quality of Central African coffee.
c.   A study of the coffee industry was done.
d.   A diagnostic study of CAISTAB was carried out.
e.   A management study of ADECAF has been done and a start has been made
on implementing its recommendations.



- 73 -                 ANNEX V
Page 21 of 28
f.   The tax on equipment and spare parts has been lowered under the 1986,
1987 and 1988 budget lavw.
Under SAL II, the Government now intends to consolidate and supplement these
measures.
47.        New Measures  The Government has decided to improve the existing
price system so as to achieve a better distribution of the risks and gains due
to fluctuations in coffee prices and to stimulate competition so as to reduce
marketing margins. To achieve this, the Government intends to:
a.   study how best to introduce a flexible producer price for berry
coffee tc be determined in the light of the world price before the
1988-89 season;
b.   organize and train the rural population to give them a better
understanding of the market and enable them to share fully the
benefits of the system;
c.   maintain a floor producer price to be guaranteed by the Coffee
Support Fund and which will not be higher than CFAF 190/kg;
d.   create a Coffee Support Fund (May 1988) to be situated in  a
commercial bank and managed by a committee made up of the
representatives of the Ministries of Rural Development, Economy,
Finance and Plan, CAISTAB, exporters, the Chamber of Agriculture and
the Professional Banking Association. So long as the Support Fund is
is supplied by the Treasury, the interest on these funds will revert
to the Treasury. It is understood that when the funds for the
Support Fund are supplied from the coffee sector itself, then the
private sector will have a majority of the votes on the managing
committee.
e.   pay the the 1987188 coffee season subsidy (to be settled by Ministry
of the Economy, Finance, Plan and International Cooperation before
the end of Calendar Year 1988.
f.   financial and management audits of CAISTAB (to start June 1988).
g.   revision of the role of CAISTAB (November 1988) to concentrate its
activities on:
i.   packaging and stock control; and
ii.   application of pricing policy and support/taxation of coffee
buyers and exporters.
h.   elimination of the role of CAISTAB in the financing of public
investments (January 1988).
i.   maintaining a light marketing structure whose future will be decided
in the light of the audit results.



74 -                   ANNEX Y
Page 22 of 28
J.   restructuring of CAISTAB in keeping with the reduction in its
activities, streamlining of its staff and and reduction of its fixed
levy (staffing plan to be finalized in January 1989).
k.   the industrial facilities of the coffee cooperatives to be put under
private management through competitive bidding (September 1988).
Cotton
48.        A structural adjustment program has already been drawn up for cotton
(ASAL-A).  The Government now reaffirms its determination to ensure that this
program is executed in accordance with the provisions of the agreement signed
in Washington on August 17, 1987 and with the prior agreements made under
SAL I.
Restructuring of MRD, Research and Extension.
49.        The Government's objective is to reinforce MRD's capacity to plan,
monitor and coordinate development activities by limiting its role to these
activities and putting in place an organizational structure more suited to
achievement of these objectives. The Government intends to release
supernumerary staff in the ministry so as to decrease the share of personnel
costs in the operating budget. To carry out these operations, the Government
has already:
a.   adopted a new organnigram for the ministry (Presidential Decree No.
88.052 of February 8, 1988);
b.   established a Unit responsible for monitoring the restructuring of
MRD (the CRDR: ArrOtd No. 0101MDR of March 12, 1988);
C.   finalised the staffing plan for the ministry which provides for the
retention of 1210 civil servants and the reduction of casual labor to
229 manyears per year.
To complete the restructuring of the ministry, the Government undertakes tot
d.   adopt a system of personnel selection based on objective criteria
(May 1988);
e.   give staff the option of freely quitting public service once the PVAD
becomes operational (July 1988);
f.   complete the restructuring of the ministry in accordance with the
staffing plan and place supernumerary staff in the Personnel Bank
(August 1988).
50.        The Government's objective with respect to research and extension
structural reform is to develop a unified national framework to counteract the
project approach which responds more to the financiers' criteria and to the
availability of funds than to national priorities and budgetary constraints and
which leads to a multiplicity of approaches and duplication of effort. The



-75-                   ANNEX V
Page 23 of 28
Government has already instituted a Committee for the Agricultural Sciences in
pursuit of this objective.  This Committee has proposed the. creation of a
National Research Service and the preparation of a project for support to this
service (January/February 1988). In the coming months, the Government intends
tot
a.   recruit the services of a consultant firm to assist the Committee for
the Agricultural Sciences in drawing up the necessary documentation
for the creation of a National Agronomic Research Center (CNRA) and
in the preparation of a support project for this center (bidding in
June 1988);
b.   publish the texts creating the CNRA (November 1988);
c.  establish a think tank for agricultural extension (June 1988);
d.  formulate a national agricultural extension strategy covering the
institutional and methodological questions involved (November 1988);
a.  prepare a pilot project for agricultural extension based on the
training and visit system (December 1988).
C. The Forestry Sector
51.        Forestry accounted for 28? of total exports in 1981 but only 18X in
1986. Exports of undressed timber and sawmill products dropped from CFAF 8.4
billion in 1983 to 6.0 billion in 1987, a fall of 29? in the total value of
exports. Exports of logs vent from 81,292 m3 in 1983 to 40,805 m3 in 1987 - a
fall of 50X. Over this period, the value of the share of sawmill products in
total exports remained constant at 45?. This decline is due to two sorts of
factors: one related to developments in the export market for tropical woods;
the other related to intrinsic characteristics of the Central African forestry
industry. Among the exogenous factors, the most noteworthy are the general
weakening of world demand for tropical forest products which set in about 1983
and whose effects have been increasingly felt in recent years and more
recently, the fall in the dollar. Certain of the intrinsic elements which
continue to contribute to the decline have become more and more of a constraint
in recent years. They include:
i.   the excessively high cost of transportation to the export ports,
the land-locked situation of the country, the hazardous nature
of river transportation due to pillaging and grounding of
cargoes and the poor state of the existing roads network.
ii.   lack of access roads to some forest areas;
iii.   the Forest Service's lack of resources;
iv.   inappropriate forest legislation;
v.   insufficient means for the protection of forest areas which are
subject to degradation either from lack of proper fallow
planning or uncontrolled firewood and charcoal production;
vi.   inadequate knowledge of forest resources which makes planning
and rational use of these resources very difficult;
vii.   an inadequate customs tax policy for forest export products.



76 -                   ANNEX V
Page 24 of 28
52.        The Government's goals for the forestry sector are to:
i.   strengthen forest protection and preservation measures for dense
forest areas significantly and on a national scale;
ii.   improve the management and rationalize the use of the country's
forest resources;
iii.   increase the level of knowledge of dense forest areas; and
iv.   lift the constraints which are threatening the preservation and
rational development of forest industries so as to increase
their competitiveness and promote the development of secondary
wood processing activities.
53.        Measures Already Taken
i.   Import duties on equipment and spare parts have been reduced to
5Z of c.i.f. price for a period of five years;
ii.   Price controls have been abolished for sawmill products sold on
the local market;
iii.   New legislation has been enacted instituting a more suitable
system of forestry taxation, based not on volume but on a market
value that reflects the f.o.b. value of each species. These new
provisions are contained la Ordinance No. 87.037 (Forestry
Taxation), which was promulgated on August 24, 1987 and entered
into effect on January 1, 1988. This same Ordinance updates the
concessions system by promoting long-term permits, better
management of forestry businesses and systematic regeneration of
forestry capital. It also defines the market values which will
in future be applied in determining forest taxation but which
are not yet applied to customs taxes;
iv.   Road and rail transport studies have been carried out, as has a
study on the financing of the Office National des ForOts;
v.   The Northern Region Development Project which aims at the
protection of forest natural resources has started up:
vi.   two zones of total protection have been designated, one in the
savannah, one in the forest zone; and
vii.   a National Committee on the Environment has been created.
I
54.        Measures To Be Taken.  To achieve its goals while at the same time
conserving the natural equilibrium of the forest environment, the Government
proposes to:
a.   elaborate a strategy for the protection and long term conservation of
the nation's forest resource, including a system of permits and
controls for firewood collection (December 1988);
b.   prepare an integrated forestry project to support better
understanding, protection and use of national forestry resources
(preparatory studies to start in December 1988);
c.   establish a mechanism to monitor the level of new investment in the
forestry industry in the wake of measures reducing the import tax on
equipment (December 1988);



-77-                   ANNEX V
Page 25 of 28
d.   review the tax regime as it affects customs duty on timber in the
light of the conclusions of the study on Support for the Central
African Forestry Industry with a view to stimulating exports of
species other than sapelli, sipo, ebony and doussie (December 1988);
e.   revise the tax regime applicable to processed forest products with a
view to encouraging reorientation of the industry towards high value
added products;
f.   bring the market prices used for customs duties on wood products in
line with world prices so as to make them consonant with the market
prices foreseen in Ordinance No. 87.037 of August 24, 1987 relative
to forestry taxation (December 1988);
g. revise ONF's responsibilities in the light of the recommendations of
the study done on it. Complete the study of the restructuring of the
Ministry of Forests and Waters (December 1988);
h.   revise the Central African Forestry Code (December 1988) -- this will
include measures to;
i.   update the procedures for awarding permits (July 1988);
ii.   standardize the schedules of conditions and review and adapt the
obligations of the forestry companies particularly with regard
to the protection of forestry resources (done);
iii.   identify Government measures for strengthening conservation and
protection measures in areas of dense forest.
i.   examine the possibilities for collaboration with the private sector
in the protection, development and conservation of the nation's
forest heritage (December 1988).
J.   establish forest protection measures along the Boda-Bambio-Yamando
road (December 1988).
D. The Mining Sector
55.        Recognizing the mining sector's contribution to the balance of
payments (diamond exports account for more than 20S of total exports),
monetization of the economy and public revenue, the Government proposes to
pursue its policy of increaring and diversifying production and encouraging
operators to use the official production and export channels. To that end it
will:
a.   enact the legislation concerning graduated taxation and appropriate
incentives for evaluators and establish a mining promotion fund with
specific provision for the purchase of a sample diamond lot (June
1988);



-78 -                  ANNEX V
Page 26 of 28
b.   prepare and enact legislation Improving the incentives to the mining
squads (brigades miniares) by instituting a system of bonuses based
on the levies on seizures (June 1988);
c.   make the valuation commission (Bureau d'Evaluation) operational with
clearly defined responsibilities in a distinct and self-contained
unitt particular emphasis will be given to closing loopholes in the
system, application of the grading system, application and review of
market values in light of market conditions at least three times a
year on the first of February, May and September; preparation and
utilization of purchase vouchers and of production statistics as well
as monitoring and applying international prices (June 1988);
d.   in view of the crucial importance of evaluators to the effective
implementation of the Government's diamond policy, step up the
training of evaluators already in post and at the same time give
special attention to the recruitment and comprehensive training of
new evaluators;
e.   restructure and strengthen the Geological and Mining Studies and
Research Directorate (December 1988) on the basis of the staffing
plan of the Ministry of Mines which will be available in December
1988.
f.   draw up an inventory of mining resources with a view to preparing a
national iiining plan that encourages private investment (national and
foreign) aimed at expanding and diversifying official exports
(May 1989).
E. Monitoring of Implementation of SAL II
56.        Monitoring of SAL II will be done by the Monitoring Committee whose
composition, organization, responsibilities and method of operation were
prescribed by Decree No. 86.193 of July 26, 1986.
a.   Having regard to the weaknesses noted during SAL I, the Government
will strengthen the Monitoring Committee in order to systematize
supervision and compliance with the frequency (monthly) of meetings,
summary records (comptes rendus) and reports.
b.   To improve coordination between the various programs, they will be
monitored by subcommittees of the Monitoring Committee (for example,
the PASA-A sub-committee). The subcommittees will have the same
frequency requirement with respect to meetings, summary records and
reports as the Monitoring Committee. Their secretariat services will
be provided i'y the Technical Secretary of the Monitoring Committee.
c. To strengthen coordination between the Monitoring Comumittee, the IMP
agreement Surveillance Group and the Commission responsible for
scrutinizing drafts of official texts in the Office of the President
of the Republic, the Technical Secretary of the Monitoring Committee
will participate in meetings of this Commission.



- 79 -                 ANNEX V
Page 27 of 28
ATTACHMENT 1
SUMMARY OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
TO BE REGULARLY AND OFFICIALLY PROMULGATED IN YEAR "Nw
DATE                          DOCUMENT TITLE
End March      I IMPLEMENTATION REPORT FOR YEARLY STAGE OF PLAN (year N-1)
IT STATUS REPORT AND SHORT-TERM PROJECTIONS
End March      1) First status report,giving analysis of economic developments
in Year N-1
End Aug.       2) Second status report giving analysis of economic developments
for first half of Year N
III THREE MONTHLY PHYSICAL AND FINANCIAL IMPLEMENTATION REPORTS
FOR ROLLING THREE YEAR PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM
End August     1) Implementation report on 3-Yr PIP in the first half of Year N
Znd Dec.       IV PRESENTATION OF NATIONAL INVESTMENT BUDGET
End Dec.       V PRESENTATION OF THREE YEAR ROLLING INVESTMENT PROGRAM



- 80                        ANNEXV
Page 28 of 28
ATTACHMENT 2
CALENDAR FOR PUBLICATION AND APPLICATION
OF MINISTRY STAFFING PLANS
MINISTRY                             PUBLICATION      DECREE      OPERATION      FINANCING/
Civil Service, Social Security &
Professional Training              Aug. 8           Feb. 87     March 87       World Sank
Tehnical Scientific Reearch          Aug. 8e          Oct. 87     Oct. 87        CPRAC
Rural Development                    Sept. 87         Feb. 88     June 88        UNDP
Economy, Finance,                    Feb.                -        August 8       World Bank
Plan and                                _                _
International Cooperation            may 88              -        August 88-    UNDP
Education                            March 87            -        SeptOmber 98  UNOP
Commerce, Industry/SUE               March 87            -        September 88  UNDP
Communications -                     July 87             -        September U8  ACCT/UNDP
Arte, Culture
Poets & Telecommunications              -                -        March 88       CPRAC
Watero and Forests                   July Uo   -         -        September U8  World Bank
Foretgn Affairs                      July Us  -          -        October U8     W.B.?/UNDP?
Public H"lth & Social Affairs        July Ue  -          -        OctoUber U8    W..?/UNDP?
Interior, Territorial Adm.           July 88  -          -        October U8    France (FAC)
Transport. - Civil Aviation          Ocober Us  -        -        January 89    W.B.?/UNDP?
Mines & Energy                       October 88  -       -        January U9    W.8.?/UNDP?
Public Works and Territorial Devt.   October U    -      -        January 8U     W8.t?/UNDP?



- 81 -
CERIUL ARICAN RE1ULIC                       ANNEX  VI
Page i of 6
SEOU STIRCTAL ADAJT94gN aDIT
POlICY HATRIX
Page 1
POU1CY oBJiv5               N           WASURE TO bE TAKEN                HNITORADE ACrI             TII
I. 1NRAROOEN1IIC WAN2
.lpin,. I   udgetary  _anaeaont.:    I :Raviae the tmneral Incg" Ta.        :Incrvas. the rate  applied    June 8S
:genrate budgetry savings.      :                                           :for evaluating advantage in- 
:A.1 Increase fial revenues    :                                            :kind provided by free lodging.:
:fro. lu  of 80P In 108  to 1.8 S
sof CDP In 1990.                I       :                                   :Inclusion of revenues fro    :June 88
:rePl etato in the Ceneral    :
Income Tax.
s      2                                   :Study how to incroese tea     :Dec s8
2  2   2:sbaae nd apply redcondation
2                                      2                  :i n 1989 budget.
:   2 tRaduce import and cuatoms duty      RReIevant regulations suet be  :June 8b
:     :exonerattons and exmptntos on all  :isued. Share of totl           :
2 :      simported product. except otl      tcsportr under various roete  : 
tproducta.                            Ut indicate effectiveness
2  :                                       :of measure. 
8 :Strengthen recovry of tax nd           :Arrsare mist show reduction.  :jn  88
: 2   :cuatoms arrears.                    :CFAF 800 million expected In
:1908.                        2         :
:                               2   4 :Introduce iaster Raw for tax         WUas of Raw by Fisal Srvices -2Oc 8s
2      : tidentification by sIngle number.   2Departwent. Cuetoom Department:
2  2                                 Mind other (lovernment agencie.: 
: t introduc  teporary emrgncy         :Specific maures for 1988    :June so
:     sasauree to increase fiscal          tenuserated 1n LW:.
2 revenues.                         ;Lot do Finamc  for 1989 and  :Dec s8
:                               :      :                                    21990.                         :OecBO 
:A.2 Deereas  current               t6  Ocide budet at locatIons, options  :Content of 1989 Lol            :Jan as
:expenditure  and incre_se total       :to direct resources to priority     :de Finance.
:receipte so that s th are             :expenditure. -Reduce diploestic mi-itoa    :
.equal; wage expenditure- to b   :     2                                     nbrod as well as participa-
redue d.                        2      2                                   :tton in interational ores-
2                       2~~~~~~~~ 2                                 Wtons.
7 tPolices, specified under           -See bolow.
2      :&tolvil service reform.
2:2   8:   ContrOl tranfers for fellowships.  :Action program.                                                       2
9 :Centrol subsidies and trafers.    :Actlon program.                 June a8
.9. Investment Progr  Ing.          10  otabl ish three year rolling        tPublication 188-90 program.  :Nfy 88
:Eitab labh a three year rollino  2    tinvesteent programming yetem main-
.planning mechanism to Include   2     :tainins share of 783 for priority    Publiatien draft, 189-91      :Oct 88
.smcroconemic fromeworv,                e        ntor   ncluding:           2program.
the publIe investment prornm   t
and budgetary ioplicatIon,.     I      2  (a) proces, for half-yearly and  :Report for 1l88.               Mar 8s   2
.Iprove project selection.      I      :annual monitoring of financial end
:physictl real bstiaons  nder the 
2 invostent progre; ;
2      2  (b) bi-nnu   report on ecnic :Flrxt report to cover first   Sept 8e
:     :and financial situation;             nrsaester of l988. Thereafter
2bi-annuai reports.
2     ;  C (c) projections of recurrent    :                              WJuly 8s
2      tosteo *rising from new investments. :For (c) and (d), introduction          2
2      2                                   :of appropriate methodology.   :
2                               :      :  (d) break-down of development    :Projection, to be up-dated   :-ar s9 
:expenditures by major economic     :annually in each 9 year                 I
:  :   2cateoty;                           2progras.



>1 s!5 3   8      8   j                 X;    S    4            4;8   -
........ ................. .................. ................. . ............. ............
|~~~~~~ J28N i,i,                     '                 IL_                        _                     II
X   di il  ,.3,i.i,,            t '  -           -E                                  i                          'el



iF~~~~~~i
411' ~~11 tifI!                                                               
1 i  t ~      ~    it~                                                           
- -- -    -- --   ----   -- -



ANNEX VI
84-                           Page4 of 6
Page 4
MUcY aoemu"v m              mI8auM2 NO GE TOM                            HONTSRBl AC"          w     M n
ill. CIVIL SRVICIE 14.          I  J2 todefin respetive roles of Functioen Spblicatioa of guld.l         tDcc.as   I 
(a Ont.)                   I      aPblique imd line Niintatries io    I                                       a
a      sadalnietrativ iwe_ent of Plbl@ a t                                         a
a                               a  88 aReview civil *ervice etutmu  In    :m  etatute.                   :Spt as 
t                               I      torder to rationalis Indemnities and                              I         t
-reduce wage-b IIl.                                               a
t                       t      :                                   :                             :         t~~~~t 
a    tRainforce aanageaeat of 1ageilI.  aCm**U th  computerization  :Har as
t                               a      a tof the                                           .             a
s                               a      I steiRnforer  the links beeen   :Sep astB
a                                         a X tbudget poeandthacil v il    s       a
*     a                                    atcervice roster. Audit of    I
a            *      a                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~acivileervice0lieteof the    a  I
*                                           PACd W  the wag b Ic   l
*     a                                    abs an Iternation   fire,     t a
aa8plificattn n of the  alery  sSep
a  a                           ~~~~~~~~~~~aeystee tn P.n.ti.n Pubiliqe.  a  a
all?. PAMaJJ  SE=rt R I aE 86 Annual pubil.atitn of _onteldt    sAcounte for 196 and 197.  saIr 89   a
A. Sector Wide Meaures:        :aacounts of sactor. includine              sTbee ftor 198 have, been     a
iRducrf tinanial burden an            sanlylte of perfer_anc of major pam:coepleted.                     a
abudgt and Improve efficiency   a      sAceounto for _ajor PEr .Il be     :Audit nd approval to be      l"9      t
aof aector.                     a      taudited and approvd by r%w.44tive  acopleted  thain official     a 
a     aboarde.                             atisaframe. that it. aWdit 4   t        t
a                               a                                          amto  after nd of fi;1        a  
t     a                  tYear and approl a * nth                        a
:                               *      a                                   aftor t  dit.                 s         I
a                               a s 6 ilS aintain freeze on the creation   acontinowe mitering.          aD-c as   t
a                                      a tef nw P1E for four yrs.                                        t 
a ?tduce staffing on the basis of      aPayroll Ite for Pi at end  abe. as   t
a                               .      arehabilitation plane. :tf calendr year.                          aD  69 
So :$ettl)nt of remining groee-debts aSte to pae    f 1.6l9          aSep as
abetween Stat anWd sectr and         billion In 198B              a         a
a                               a      aprepare action plan to setle cros a                              a
a     adebt between PEr theaelves during tAction plan to settle          aJan 6t   a
a                               a      4989.                               acro_s-debte between mjor PEs a
a  89 slnclude In  udget *munt,            sAmuunte In 16 budgO are   ti0c SB   t
eufficient to cover for*_   -ble    M20= higher than thoe, of    a
a conuption by tste of services   :111?. AuNtA to be reviwet    a
a                               .      -provided by sojer sr,              ar 1*6 Lot de Finane. 
40 aCl8rify tnatitutlnal               gfficial texto.              aDc as   t
a     s:rOponeibilities for proarino 8    a                              a
aetr rollIng investment proram In  a                              a         a
a     a tooeJuncton with Plan,             a                             a 
s  41  teview tariff policy for ie In       Official  atex  nd tariff    abc SB
order to cowr operating coete. ee    heule of major M.
a  42 aFtna lie Inetitutional and legl    aStudy an  action program.     aDoi as   a
a               s                   stframework std  and prepre ection  a
s                               a      aproeram far itpleenttion of        a                             a         a
a     arectr *omendtio  during  M.         a
*a. Priwatintion/Liquidation.       49  Prere standard procedures for  tJacumt.                          :Jul as   t
a                               a      aeprivatiseton.
a                               a  44  contCinue privOtiptiftn procee. far  tPrgre, report on            :Jan St   a
a                               a      aSIRl. SA SOCW. Si ,  CC.   aprivatieatin wi II b                 a         a
a                               a      tSOI_,  iACA, CIIRPOJ   et tW    tprepred _anually.               a         a
a                               a      aThe sovernment -ill contiwue to    a                             a         a
a                     a      ac~~~~~~~~tonsider expanding this list,  a 



. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - -- -    -   - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - -- - - - - --   - - - - - - - -
ID



I  , I   ,   ....   ..  ..            ..                            o               4 t P  I gjni                               I3
..~~~~'                                 .         .         .        .      ..  ..                                         .. 
-              - - - - - - - -                    -    -' -          - - - - -          -         -  -   -    -~
3             1i                                                    *    - - - - - - - - - -                i
-    -     -. - - -l - - -                                                                                                                  l- --
8                                          8       8                   r                                                g       sS 
~~~~~~~~~~.                                                   3.                ..I                                       . . ...0.. .. ..... ..



NOTES



KAP SECTION



1BRO 18095R%
NIGER                                                                                                                                             / r                 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
=   L ,,_- A,, d.    2                                       A F R I C A  \                                     .             \                   REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
--                     C H' UDAN                                                                                                        -TRANSPORTATION AND POPULATION DENSITYI
TRANSPORT ET DENSITE DE POPULTION
DENSITY. INHABITANTS ER SO. KM.
DENSWTE HAITANT PAR KM
3)           ~~~~~LESS THAN D./ OES Y,1.
V A    A 2   \                      ( /: / / - 4 G A  \   < URBAN ZONE POPULATION
s,} / C~~~~E        N T R A L                                                                                                                               \ \/ /l   P O P U L A T7 0N   LR B AJN E   315
CAMEROON  ~     AFRICAN   REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                     L~
CAMEROON                                                                                                                                                                                           7 .f 20,,-toundo <1 S >\ J/E4yrWro t -   R
VEOit                                                                 A                                                                                                                                   AASE MMM
T /         / E                                 NOA S  RAEINGUI                                       I N  N                                       SOURCE  E  O
El PMTC.-PSEIR  CAPTL
II~ ~~~~~~~ARI18
:AMEROON                                       zSBAd 
ING   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~\S U D A N
OuHf                                                                        EAIaij                                                  A UT
O~~~~SORR.t  ..                                                                                                                                    /~~~~~~~~~t 
4.
SOURCE. BASED ON GENERA POPULIATION CENSUS Of 1975.
PLE'S   REP.  0      so      100      ]so       2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  210  300 ~~~~~SOLURE, 8A4E5(05 LUE  RECENS.EMENT GENERAL DE LA PUPEILA ION DE 1975.
CAM  ROON                  /                                                                                KLOETRSr-HE,.                                                         T. 3                              d -
I6                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                               ~~      ~~0 so  100  ISO  200  RSA sS  Pg5A,SMofTPM W MOR8.   I  O h M &4MEOMF C pESER RSMT.  ' 8



