Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1916 CA
(Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 29, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1916 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1988 between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 14, 1988 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy  (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the  execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development  Fund (ADF) 
a loan (the ADF Loan) in an amount equivalent to twenty million    ADF's Units of 
Account (UA 20,000,000) to provide additional assistance in support of the Program, on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF; and
Page  2
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower  by making the 
Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit   
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications  thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part  of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement.";
 
      (b)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit."; and
(c)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986);
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Comite de Suivi" means the interministerial committee established by 
Decree No. 86/193  dated July 26, 1986 to supervise the implementation of the Program;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower;
 
(f)  "ENERCA" means Energie Centrafricaine, un etablissement public established 
and operating pursuant to Ordinance No. 67/63 dated October 25, 1987, of the Borrower;
(g)
"OCPT" means Office Centrafricain des Postes et Telecommunications, un 
etablissement public established and operating pursuant to Ordinance No. 69/050 dated 
August 1, 1969 of the Borrower;
(h)
"SNE" means Societe Nationale des Eaux, un etablissement public 
established and operating  pursuant to Ordinance No. 75/083 dated November 7, 1975 of 
the Borrower;
(i)
"BEAC" means Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale;
 
(j)
"CAADE" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement de la dette de l'Etat, un 
Page  3
etablissement public established and operating pursuant to  Ordinance No. 82/017 dated 
April 8, 1982 of the Borrower;
(k)
"CAISTAB means Caisse de Stabilisation et de Perequation des Produits 
Agricoles, un etablissement public established and operating pursuant to Ordinance No. 
80.048 dated June 12, 1980 of the Borrower; and
(l)
"Agent de l'Etat" means any employee recruited contractually to serve in 
the public service and placed in the fifth or sixth category of the  general 
classification of the public service employment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty eight million  and nine hundred Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special account in BEAC on terms and conditions satisfactory  to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account  shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1989 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i)
from a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement the 
accrual date) to 
the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; 
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied 
as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement except 
that the rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of 
July 
1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the  territory  of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in 
this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
Page  4
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1998, and  ending March 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2008, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy 
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof 
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deterioriated significantly, the Association may, if so  requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Chairman of the Comite de Suivi is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required  or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower  hereby 
entrusts CAADE with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be 
furnished to the Association in support of such applications;  such withdrawal 
applications shall, to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for 
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than 500,000 dollars equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved  in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently  maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
Page  5
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
(b)
Decree No. 86/193 establishing the Comite de Suivi shall have  been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the Association's prior 
approval.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
ADF Loan made 
to the Borrower in support of the Program 
shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated, in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the ADF Loan Agreement, or
 
(B)
the ADF Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
 
(B)
adequate funds for the Program are available to the Borrower 
Page  6
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(c) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
minister of the Borrower responsible for economy and finance is designated  as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 696
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINECA
5208 RC
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Christian Lingama-Toleque
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in  respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods required during the execution of the  Program and to be financed out of such 
proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
 
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts     
thereof, fuel elements      
(cartridges), nonirradiated for  
nuclear reactors
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or                                        
platinum group metals (except watches  
and watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set 
gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold  
ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower  is also 
that of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods  supplied from the 
territory of such other country;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
2,900,000 may be made on account of payments made for such  expenditures before that 
date but after April 1, 1988;
Page  8
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the  Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of: an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 
10,115,000 for petroleum products; and in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 
SDR 10,115,000 for foodstuffs.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 14,450,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the 
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out  of the Program; and (b) that 
the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods to be imported by the Borrower or  its 
public sector entities estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or  more each 
shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in  accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and  II of the "Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 
(the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity 
to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's 
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid; 
such advertisements should be 
placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in  addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; 
or
 
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide 
international circulation; or
 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in 
the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the 
bidder 
Page  9
to state the bid 
price in a single currency widely used in international trade and 
specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for goods to be imported by the Borrower or its public sector entities 
and estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000 each shall be awarded on 
the basis of price quotations invited from at least three  reputable suppliers in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association; and all contracts for goods 
to be imported by private sector entities shall be awarded on the basis of the normal 
procurement procedures
of the purchaser of such goods.
3.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of 
such contract, two conformed copies of  such contract, together with the analysis of 
the respective bids and  recommendations for award, a description of the advertising 
and tendering procedures followed and such other information  as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to the Association 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds  from the Credit Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably request 
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Schedule, where 
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, 
the copies of such contract or the documentation and the  information to be furnished 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the  
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from  the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The following actions have been taken, all in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association:
1.
A three-year rolling public investment program for 1989-1991 has been agreed 
with the Association.
2.
An action plan acceptable to the Association has been adopted to further reform 
the public enterprises' legal and institutional framework.
3.
A report on progress in privatizing/liquidating PEs has been completed, and an 
action plan to rehabilitate ENERCA, SNE and OCPT has been adopted and has been carried 
out in accordance with the timetable provided in said action plan.
4.
Arrears due by the Borrower to public enterprises in the amount of CFAF 1.89 
billion have been settled; and a calendar, acceptable to the Association,  for 
settlement of cross-debts between ENERCA, SNE and OCPT, has been adopted by December 
31, 1989.
5.
Substantial progress has been achieved in the carrying out of the civil service 
reform, in  particular: (a) staffing plans for all ministries have  been adopted; (b) 
staffing plans for all ministries have been executed in  accordance with the schedule 
agreed upon with the Association; (c) the number of civil servants and "agents de 
l'Etat" has been reduced by about 2,000 persons; (d) salaries expenditures for fiscal 
year 1988 have not exceeded the amount of CFAF 24 billion; and (e) budgetary 
Page  10
allocations for salaries expenditures in fiscal year 1989 have not exceeded the amount 
of CFAF 22 billion.
6.
Measures acceptable to the Association have been implemented in order to 
increase fiscal revenues to about CFAF 40.1 billion.
7.
The audit of CAISTAB has been executed; an action plan to restructure CAISTAB 
has been adopted and carried out in accordance with the timetable provided in said 
action plan; and a system for determining flexible producer price for coffee has been 
adopted.
8.
A new strategy for the management and conservation of forestry resources has 
been adopted.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of  the 
reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
2,900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each 
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account  in the 
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the  evidence supporting 
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the  time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
can be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  11
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus the amount of 
any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Program, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the  Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the 
Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
