Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank                     F
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2438-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
ROMAN SEAMLESS PIPE PROJECT
December 21, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei  4.47       =       US$1.00
Leu  1.00       =       US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00       =       US$1.00
Leu  1.00       3        US$0.08
3.   Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00       -       US$1.00
Leu  1.00       =        us$o.o6
The official exchange rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to convert the
prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange. The rate of lei 18 per US$1 is
being used by the Government to convert national income statistics from lei
to dollars. Consequently, this rate has been used as the base rate for cal-
culation in the appraisal.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIPM                  _  Industrial Central of Metallurgical
Processing.
IPROLAM               -  Institute for Engineering of Rolling Mills
in the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries.
METALIMPORTEXPORT      -  Export Sales Organization for Pipe Products
in the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries.
METAROM                -  Romanian Metallurgical Industries Trading
Enterprise.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA - ROMAN SEAMLESS PIPE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Investment Bank of Romania.
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania.
Beneficiary:         Roman Enterprise.
Loan Amount:         $40 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including a 3 year grace period,
through semi-annual installments, with interest at 7.35
percent per annum.
Project
Description:         The project would consist of a "tPilger" mill with a
capacity of about 130,000 tpy of large diameter seamless
wall pipe. It would produce about 100 different types of
large diameter pipes to meet increasing domestic and
international demand for these products, and to save and
earn foreign exchange. Pipes produced under the project
would find a wide range of applications across Romanian
industry including oil and gas exploration, production and
transportation, chemicals, boiler, machine tool and earth
moving equipment manufacture, ship building, and marine
platform manufacture. The transfer of the Pilger mill
technology will be a benefit to the Romanian pipe indus-
try. About 900 new jobs will be created, and net foreign
exchange benefits are estimated at $74 million annually
at full production. The market and commercial risks
arising from uncertainty of export market and export
prices for the project products are not considered major
since COMECON countries and China could absorb project
output if the expected market opportunities were not
fully realized. The technical risk that steel ingots of
required quality would temporarily not be produced in
Romania would be minimized by training, arrangements for
ingot testing, and provision of technical assistance if
the tests show that the ingots are not of the quality
required.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimate:                                                            Foreign
US$ Millions                as %
Item                                  Local      Foreign       Total      of Total
Civil Works and Buildings               20.8        8.7         29.5         29
Equipment and Spares                    20.1       42.0         62.1         68
Other                                    7.3        2.9         10.2         28
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)               48.2        53.6        101.8         53
Physical Contingencies
(10% of BCE)                            4.8         5.4         10.2
Price Escalation
(7-7.5% on imported items and
1% on local items)                      0.9        9.6          10.5
Sub-total                              53.9       68.6         122.5
Working Capital                          9.8         -           9.8
Total Project Cost                     63.7       68.6         132.3
Interest During Construction            1.3        5.8           7.1
Total Financing Required               65.0       74.4         139.4
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Millions
Local       Foreign       Total
State Budget                            65.0          14.4          79.4
IBRD                                       _          40.0          40.0
Cofinancing                                -          20.0          20.0
TOTAL                                   65.0          74.4         139.4
Estimated Disbursements:                              US$ Millions
Bank FY      1979       1980       1981       1982
Annual        0.5       10.5       22.0        7.0
Cumulative   0.5        11.0       33.0       40.0
Internal Economic
Return:               12 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 2090-RO; December 15, 1978
Industrial Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA FOR A ROMAN SEAMLESS PIPE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of $40 million to help finance a
project for the production of seamless pipe. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent per annum.
Co-financing of $20 million equivalent either as suppliers'-or financial
credits or a mixture of both is being sought.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report no. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An economic mission visited
Romania in mid-May to collect information on economic performance in 1977 and
to discuss the 1978 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates its findings. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformaltion and has sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The average growth rate of national income during the period has been 9.7
percent per annum. The level and diversification of industrial production
has increased rapidly, providing the basis for the modernization and expansion
of other economic sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and
national income. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry,
the population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased Substantially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes
but also because of the provision through the state budget of expanded and
improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of other
kinds. Furthermore, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed
significantly as the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.        The changes in the level and structure of economic activities be-
tween 1950 and 1975 represent the outcome of a development strategy designed
to accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as possible,
with the level and structure of development in the developed countries. The
main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and increasing rates
of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial base; the devel-
opment of local natural resources; the reorganization and modernization of
agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production and income; the
expansion of foreign trade and international economic relations; and the
development of human resources.
1/   This part is identical to the description of the economy included in
the President's Report for A Second Turceni Thermal Power Project, to be
considered by the Executive Directors on the same date as the proposed
project.



-2-
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources. Economic activity is directed
by means of obligatory development planning coordinated by the central party
and government authorities. The national plan, drawn up on a five-year time
frame and elaborated each year in an Annual Plan, sets out for the economy as
a whole, by sector and branch and on a regional basis, specific tasks for
economic and social units. The plan is drawn up through a combination of
central directives and aggregation of individual enterprise plans, any dif-
ferences being reconciled through discussions between the entities involved.
During the late 1960s and throughout the present decade, Romania has under-
taken measures to improve the planning and management system, to increase the
responsibility of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to
orient the economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the
latest changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumulation
had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP). The sectoral
allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority of
industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented towards
self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been allocated to
industry and, of this, by far the largest part has been directed to the
producer goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the industrial
sector, over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the producer
goods sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1976 industry was
the leading sector of the economy, accounting for almost 60 percent of national
income, and employing approximately 32 percent of the labor force (and almost
33 percent in 1977) compared with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by
chemicals, ferrous metallurgy, engineering and machine building, comprised 62
percent of gross industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy has greatly increased the demand for
raw materials and energy. Romania has concentrated on exploiting local
resources of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible
in these items. However, in spite of the rapid growth in production of the
wide range of raw materials found in Romania and recent efforts to conserve
and economize in the use of raw materials and energy, Romania has become a net



- 3 -
importer of many important items, particularly coal, iron ore and oil. The
rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since 1950, has
outpaced the growth of domestic production. Romania started to import oil
in 1968 and became a net importer of energy in 1972.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 34 percent of the labor
force in 1977 (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods
and other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced the share of agriculture
in nationaL income to about 18 percent by 1976. Over the past decade, agricul-
tural performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural
development and the increased investment funds made available. However, the
level and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The
rapid growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The average GNP growth of 9 percent per annum implies a percentage
growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum, up to an estimated GNP
per capita of US$1,580 in 1977, based upon official national income information
using the World Bank Atlas methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage is limited to five and a half to six times the minimum.
Monthly wages were increased by 8.3 percent in 1976 to an average of 1,964
lei. The Government also promotes its income distribution policies through
regional allocation of industrial investment.
12.       The Government aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this
basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices
of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an increase
in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the economy.
The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods and raw
materials, reaching US$7.02 billion in 1977. Exports also grew rapidly,
reaching a level of US$6.88 billion in 1977, and the share of manufactured



- 4 -
goods increased to 50 percent, reflecting the progress of Romania's indus-
trialization. Trade with LDCs and developed market economies has also been
increasing rapidly in response to policies of diversifying sources of raw
material supply and as a consequence of exports of more manufactured goods.
In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move away from trade on
a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral payments, within the
framework of the general trade cooperation agreements signed with almost all
of the country's trading partners. These agreements also covered cooperation
in production, technical assistance and economic relations. In 1977, the
convertible balance of payments deteriorated, reversing the trend of the
previous three years. After a surplus of US$76 million in 1976, the trade
balance had a deficit of US$81 million in 1977, as a result of additional
imports made necessary by the earthquake, the diversion of export goods
to the domestic economy for reconstruction and continued weak demand in the
developed countries for some Romanian exports. With an increased deficit on
the invisibles account (US$192 million compared with US$137 million in 1976),
there was a current account deficit in 1977 of US$273 million compared with
the 1976 deficit of US$61 million.
14.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies is still characterized by exports of
natural resources and imports of capital goods. Because of the present low
level of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises
from shortfalls in agricultural output or softening in prices tends to place
the import program, largely sophisticated machinery and components, in imme-
diate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The Five-Year Plan under implementation covers the period 1976-80.
The high growth rates experienced during 1971-75 are planned to continue. The
pattern of growth planned for this period suggests that the present decade has
been viewed as a decisive period in the achievement of long-term objectives,
during which Romania will overcome the major constraints on its transformation
from a developing country into a developed and technologically advanced coun-
try. There have been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year
Plan targets during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets
for standards of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh
Conference of the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other
areas of the Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions
were taken to increase work incentives substantially by allowing workers to
participate in sharing the profits of enterprises (see.para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as was achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum, approximately the same rate of growth as in the original plan. However,



- 5 -
the revised plan contains a larger number of investment projects, as new
projects were added following a reexamination of existing projects which led
to a reduction in investment costs of about 10 percent on average. This
reexamination, which took place in 1976 and 1977 was part of the general
campaign to increase utilization of existing capacity and to economize on the
consumption of raw materials and intermediate goods. The volume of foreign
trade is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a
much faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in
current prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of
exports so that it exceeds that of imports, so as to pursue its long-term
objective of reducing external debt and allowing for the accumulation of
reserves. While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of
production, it will nevertheless be increased under the revised plan. Real
wages are now to increase by 32.3 percent over the five years compared with
the previous target of 22 percent. As a result, targets for socialist retail
trade and services for the population have been increased.
17.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country, causing severe damage in the
vicinity of Bucharest. The Government estimated that 1,570 people were killed,
11,300 in'jured and that it caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion
of the tot:al damage was to buildings and associated utilities, of which US$1
billion wals in housing. Of the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was
in inventories and production. The earthquake also had a substantial detri-
mental effect on the country's balance of payments' prospects; the net balance
of payment:s cost is estimated to be approximately US$630 million during 1977
and 1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets. This required additional efforts from the population
in the form of labor, e.g. work on one Sunday per month, and money. While
these efforts enabled the economy to continue its growth, 1977 plan targets
were only partially fulfilled. National income increased by 8.6 percent com-
pared to a plan target of 11.3 percent and an increase in the previous year
of 10.5 percent. Industrial production increased substantially more than the
plan target (12.5 versus 10.5 percent). In net production or value added
terms, however, growth was significantly lower, since reductions in production
costs were less than planned and because of the need to make repairs after
the earthquake. For reasons other than the earthquake, chiefly climatic and
management problems, gross agricultural production fell 1.3 percent short
of the 1976 level, and was far below the plan target of 2-4 percent growth.
The gross output of the construction sector rose rapidly; much of the addi-
tional output constituted repairs and the sector provided a relatively large
share of growth in national income. The impact of the earthquake showed up
clearly in the growth rates of investment and trade. The volume of investment
increased by 11.5 percent rather than the 16.7 percent planned, reflecting the
diversion of construction resources and manpower to repair work. The volume
of trade increased in current prices close to that planned (14.8 versus 15.5
percent) but with imports increasing more rapidly and exports less rapidly
than planned.



19.        The 1978 Annual Plan indicated growth rates similar to those planned
in 1977. National income was planned to increase by 11-11.5 percent, gross
industrial production by 10.6 percent and gross agricultural production by
between 6.9 and 16.1 percent, with the respective net production growth
rates being somewhat higher as a result of planned decreases in material
expenditures per unit of final product. Investment was planned to increase
by 16.8 percent and foreign trade by 19.1 percent. Real incomes of the
population were projected to increase by 7.9 percent. Mid-year reports
suggested that the growth of production during 1978 was likely to approxi-
mate targets, although there have been indications of delays in carrying
out investments. The recently published Annual Plan for 1979 signals no
significant deviation from the previous path, although the target for national
income (8.8 percent) does suggest a slight deceleration in growth. Net indus-
trial production is planned to grow at 11.5 percent (in keeping with the new
economic measures, the 1979 Plan specifies industrial growth in net rather than
gross terms), with particularly high rates of growth planned for such indus-
trial branches as machine tools, engineering and electrical goods. Gross
agricultural production is planned to increase at 5.1-5.6 percent, foreign
trade at 16.6 percent and investment at 9.1 percent, substantially below the
1978 target. Real incomes of the population are expected to increase by
7.5 percent.
20.        In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future enterprises are also to retain a higher pro-
portion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural expendi-
tures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan preparation,
be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer correla-
tion between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more direct
responsibilities for the achievement of foreign trade targets. These measures
are now under detailed discussion within Romania and are expected to become
law in 1979. It is too early to make a definite judgment, but it does appear
that they are designed to make the existing management and planning system
operate more efficiently rather than to cause radical changes. However, they
are a step in the direction that the basic economic report suggested was
desirable if the economy was to meet its objectives. Furthermore, they will
set up new pressures between the various levels of the economy which may lead
to more substantial changes in the future.
External Assistance
21.        The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by



- 7 -
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
earnings. In 1977, new commitments of convertible medium and long-term
loans totalled US$843 million and consisted mainly of supplier and financial
credits with relatively short repayment periods. The gross inflow of conver-
tible medium and long-term loans during the year was US$890 million (not
counting US$38 million from the IMF). This represented a net inflow of US$329
million after accounting for the country's repayment obligations. There was
also a net inflow of US$156 million on short-term during 1977; this was the
result of the Government's temporary reversal, because of additional financing
needs generated by the earthquake, of its policy to reduce reliance on short-
term credilts.
22.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of November
1978, eight joint venture agreements had been signed and a number of others
announced. In contrast with the earlier ventures, which involved total direct
foreign investments of only US$10-15 million, the seventh and eighth involve
far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977 with Citroen,
involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and will lead to
a total capital inflow of aproximately US$250 million. Even larger inflows,
appproximately US$500 million, are expected as a result of the eighth agree-
ment, with Kuwait, for the construction of a petrochemical complex costing
US$1.25 billion. In the past twelve months, several more ventures have been
announced; a joint shipping company in cooperation with Libya, a joint produc-
tion company with British Aircraft, a joint production enterprise with Data
Products Corporation of USA and a joint venture for passenger aircraft with
VFW-Fokker. Many other joint venture proposals are at various stages of
negotiations.
23.       Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from the U.S. Exim-
bank and trades under Government guaranteed supplier credit schemes, ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES with the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, respectively. During 1977, Romania became the first East European
recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving US$80 million for the expan-
sion of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a US$100
million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agree-
ment and also a US$420 million loan from Iran on concessionary terms. How-
ever, it is in its Eurocurrency borrowings that the Government has made most
progress in improving its access to capital markets and in raising substantial
sums at good and improving terms. During 1977, it negotiated two Euro-
dollar loans totalling US$125 million. In January 1978, Romania negotiated
a further US$100 million on the Eurocurrency market, and it was recently
announced that the Government has negotiated a new Eurocurrency borrowing of
US$200-300 million. The terms for this eight-year loan, with four years grace
are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and 0.750 percent for
the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure long-term energy
supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract with Occidental Petroleum
for the purchase of coal from the U.S.; a banking consortium raised a US$53
million loan in April 1978 to finance Romanian participation in the Island



Creek Coal Mine in West Virginia. In addition, Romania has access to non-
convertible currency investment credits from the International Investment
Bank, Moscow.
24.       Nonetheless, Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of long-
term development finance, though, as shown above, Romania is making efforts
to improve its access to financial markets. The Bank's presence on a signi-
ficant scale, and its effort to associate Bank financed projects with co-
financing through supplier or financial credits, has a positive influence
in this regard and serves to build outside confidence in the country,
thereby enhancing in the long-term Romania's independent access to the
world's financial markets.
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
26.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
27.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards and if its present momentum is maintained, Romania will be among
the more developed of the high-income, developing countries in the 1980s.
The Government plans to achieve this high growth rate by emphasizing, first,
the utilization of the country's own resources and a large local investment
effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and natural resources.
However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets and its long term



- 9 -
plans for creating a competitive industrial economy, it will have to attract
foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support its development
efforts.
Creditworthiness
28.       As of December 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to US$3,491 million. Most of these debts (US$3,402 million)
were denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Italy.
While the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the volume and
growth of external trade, average maturities are relatively short and con-
vertible debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of US$900
million a year in 1978 and 1979. The convertible debt service ratio was 19
percent i.n 1977 and is expected to be 18 percent in 1978.
29.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country s major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million (not counting US$580 million in non-factor services) in 1977. The
preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the European Community in
June 197:3 is facilitating the expansion of such exports as is the granting of
most favored nation status by the U.S. Since the early 1970s, the Government
has restricted the use of short-term credit from Western suppliers in an
effort to improve the structure of the country's external debt. In view of
the earthquake's impact upon the balance of payments, the Government indicated
that there would be a temporary reversal of this trend and short-term debt
increased again in 1977. Assuming a continuation of present export and debt
managemenat policies, we estimate that the debt service ratio will be about 20
percent at the end of the 1976-80 plan period, after which it will remain
fairly stable. The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of
both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for
continued development, all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy
for substantial Bank lending.
30.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled.  Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the U.K. and in the U.S. With regard to
the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S. claims began in
September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon agreements
reached in May 1975. Settlement of the U.K. claims proved more difficult, but
a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank was also informed in
late 1976 of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans from the pre-war
period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests, such as concessions
granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War. The eleventh
meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was held in Bucharest in October
1976 and further discussions were planned at a date to be established through



- 10 -
diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable to obtain a consistent picture
from the two Governments of the present status of this matter and has, there-
fore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities to clarify their respective
positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.       The proposed loan and the proposed loan for the Second Turceni
Thermal Power project ($70 million) would bring total Bank commitments to
Romania to $1032.8 million for twenty loans in agriculture, industry and
power.  Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975,
but this situation improved considerably during 1976 and 1977. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects as of November 30, 1978.
32.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank is assisting the Gov-
ernment by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. Bank
lending also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to introduce new
industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and production
efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary electric
power development. Market aspects and marketing, especially for export goods,
are also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture which is
heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where productivity levels are
still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration.  Projects for
irrigation and drainage, poultry production, pig production, horticulture,
power, and a number of industrial projects, have been proposed. The Govern-
ment has also requested that the Bank consider lending for a major navigation
canal linking the Danube and Black Sea.
34.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for 163 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest in 1975,
1976, and 1977. Additional courses, including one in agricultural project
appraisal, are planned. The methodology taught in these courses is becoming
more widely known in Romania and is expected to begin to supplement the
methodology normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However,
they will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible
currency finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible
finance from other sources.   The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank



- 11 -
is expected to constitute about 13 percent of Romania's total projected con-
vertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service
payments in 1980 would be about 4.5 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Industria:l Development
36.       The performance of Romania's industrial sector during the last 25
years has been impressive, and great efforts have been made to transform a
nation that once specialized in the exportation of raw materials into a coun-
try with a strong and broad based industrial sector. Gross investment in the
economy, at annual rates in the order of 30 percent of GNP has been concen-
trated on basic and heavy industry, particularly on fuel, electric power,
metallurgy, machine building and chemicals and have resulted in a rapid
expansion and diversification of industrial output. During the last Five
Year Plan, gross industrial output increased by about 85 percent surpaEsing
significantly plan targets. Growth in the chemical, engineering and metal
working, and ferrous metallurgy sectors has been the fastest with production
about doubling.
37.       In the process of this impressive development, the industrial
sector of Romania has assimilated in a relatively short period of time
vast amounts of technology and know-how, and it is assuming a sophistication
with which it is increasingly capable of solving complex technical problems
and producing products that require a high degree of technological achievement.
One of the comparative advantages of Romanian industry is its relatively low-
cost, skilled and unskilled manpower, supported by well organized training
programs.
38.       Industrialization will remain the first priority of development
both in the remaining years of the 1976-80 Five Year Plan and in the longer
run, with output expected to grow seven fold in the period 1970-1990 (or
roughly 10 percent per annum). While previous growth was often achieved at
sacrifice of quality, efforts for quality and productivity improvement are
more evident now. Internally, the areas of major emphasis will be manpower
planning and development, growth in technological capabilities, industrial
modernization, and central efficiency auditing. With such improvement, sub-
stantially more value will be incorporated per ton of product. The thrust
of the sector's development will continue to be the growth of the chemical,
engineering, metal working and ferrous metallurgy sectors.
Industrial Organization
39.       At present nine industrial ministries are responsible for the indus-
trial sector in Romania. Subordinate to each Ministry are several foreign
trade enterprises, research and design institutes and a number of Centrals,
which in turn direct the activities of a group of related enterprises. The
enterprises, Centrals and Design Institutes, which have not been authorized



- 12 -
to trade abroad, conduct their foreign business through the foreign trade
enterprise which normally belongs to the same Ministry. However, as a result
of new economic measures announced in March 1978, some changes may occur (see
para. 20).
The Steel Industry
40.        Crude steel production grew at an annual rate of nearly 14 percent
in the 1960's, and at a somewhat slower rate of about 9 percent per annum
since 1970. Production increased from 1.8 million tons in 1960 to 6.5 million
tons in 1970, and 12.0 million tons in 1977. Except for special and high
quality steel, Romania is now almost self-sufficient in steel products. How-
ever, the industry is relying increasingly on imported raw materials, with
imported iron ore now accounting for 80 percent of requirements and coking
coal 55 percent. Under the current 1976-80 Five Year Plan, crude steel pro-
duction is planned to increase to 17 million tons in 1980. Several factors
may call for a slower pace of expansion than that planned. In particular,
steel consumption per capita in Romania would have to reach 650 kg in 1980 as
compared to the present range of 450 to 700 kg in industrial countries. Also,
on the supply side, new steel plants may take longer than now planned to come
on stream.
The Steel Pipe Industry
41.       Based on its petroleum and gas extraction industry, Romania's first
pipe rolling mill was built in 1933. By 1960 total pipe production (seamless
and welded) reached 300,000 tpy. Since then production has increased at an
annual average rate of 8 percent and reached 1.3 million tons in 1977. During
this period, production of welded pipes grew faster than that of seamless pipes,
in line with world-wide trends due to improved welding techniques and reduced
fabrication costs, and pipe production in Romania is now equally split between
these two types of pipe.
42.       Although Romania has been a traditional supplier of pipe products
to the COMECON countries, the industry has been developed primarily to meet
domestic requirements. Imports have remained low and in 1977 they totalled
91,000 tons, equivalent to 9 percent of domestic requirements. Although
exports doubled in volume, from 150,000 tons in 1960 to 372,000 tons in 1977,
their share of production declined from 45 to 27 percent. Yet Romania remains
an important pipe exporter, primarily to the COMECON countries.
43.       Romania has been well placed to develop a cotupetitive pipe industry.
It has a large and varied domestic market, an established steel industry to
provide the basic input (steel billets), a highly trained and productive work-
force, and fabrication facilities sufficiently developed for Romania to manu-
facture a large portion of pipe production equipment. Romania can continue to
enjoy these comparative advantages provided future investments are based on
realistic assessments of domestic and international market requirements.
44.       The steel pipe industry in Romania comes under the Ministry of
Metallurgical Industries, which is responsible for the steel industry as a



- 13 -
whole. The organization of the pipe industry is similar to that of all other
industries. The Industrial Central of Metallurgical Processing (CIPM) with
its head office in Bucharest, is responsible for the production and domestic
marketing of steel pipe and wiredrawn products. Steel pipes are produced in
three enterprises located in Bucharest, Iasi and Roman (site of the proposed
project) in the northeast. The plants run at full capacity and appear to be
efficiently managed. Although they do not yet produce the large seamless
pipes to be produced by the proposed project, they already produce a wide
and comprehensive range of pipe products of good quality. In addition to the
proposed project, further expansion will be undertaken both at the Roman and
Bucharest enterprises and two new plants will be constructed. Three later
expansion projects are still in the early planning stages only. Together,
were they to go forward, they would almost double production capacity for
seamless pipes, and increase that for welded pipes by 50 percent by 1985.
This ambitious expansion program is geared entirely towards the domestic
market which, however, may not be large enough to absorb its output (paras
45 and 46).
The Market for Steel Pipes
45.       Total consumption of pipes in Romania grew by about 10 percent
annually over the last five years and reached just over 1 million tons in
1977. 0:E this total welded pipes accounted for 469,000 tons, and seamless
pipes for 570,000 tons. Compared to previous periods there has been an
acceleration in the annual growth rate of pipe consumption as Romanian indus-
try, the main market outlet, expanded rapidly. In particular the consumption
of welded pipes increased sharply beginning in 1970, whereas that of seamless
pipes began to slow down, for the reasons described in para 40 above.
46.       Romania is projecting that domestic pipe demand would double between
1977 and 1985, to reach 2.0 million tpy. This would represent a per capita
consumption of 85 kg, well above the levels experienced in other industrial
countries. While pipe demand can be expected to be reasonably high in Romania
in view of the country's rapid industrialization and the continued production
of oil and gas, the level projected by Romania for 1985 appears excessive and
it is estimated that overall demand will not exceed 1.6 million tons by 1985.
Further, it could well be that in the late eighties, or early nineties, when
Romania's economy is well developed and oil and gas resources may start to
decline, pipe demand would gradually decline.
47.       As noted in paragraph 41, Romania is already an important pipe
exporter, principally to the COMECON countries, whereoit ranks second to
Czechoslovakia. Romania's production surplus is expected to increase from
372,000 tpy in 1977 to 550,000 tpy in 1980, representing about 30 percent of
production. However, based on the Bank's estimate of future demand, if all
planned investments are carried out, pipe exports could be as high as 900,000
tpy in 1985, which would make Romania a major world exporter. In view of the
ambitious investment program planned and the high level of exports this could
generate, the Investment Bank would cause a review of projected supply and
demand for steel pipes in both the domestic and international markets by



- 14 -
June 30, 1980, would submit this updated analysis to the Bank and exchange
views with the Bank on its basis and conclusions including the appropriate
set-up and arrangements for export marketing (Section 3.02, Loan Agreement).
The Market for Large Seamless Steel Pipes
48.       The large seamless pipes to be produced by the project are defined
as pipes with a diameter larger than 270 Tmn. They are used principally in
the energy sector (oil and gas in particular) and to a lesser extent in the
chemical and metal working industries. Between 1970-75, pipe consumption
increased at an average annual rate of 5.8 percent and in 1977 total consump-
tion of large seamless pipes in Romania was 88,000 tpy. The market is small
and therefore subject to considerable fluctuations. The five principal large
seamless pipe products are casings (for use in oil and gas exploration and
production), line pipes (for transmission of natural gas and to a much lesser
extent for use in the chemical industry), structural pipes (for use in ship
building, marine platforms, chemical and steel plant construction, machine
tool and earth moving equipment fabrication), boiler tubes (for use in power
stations and industrial plants), and drill collars (for oil well drilling).
Romania is projecting that the demand for large seamless pipes would double
by 1985 to reach 160,000 tpy. However, based on a more realistic assessment
of the factors which affect the growth of demand, it is estimated that the
consumption of large seamless pipes in Romania will not exceed 110,000 tpy by
1985.
49.       At present, large seamless pipes are produced in Romania with a
maximum diameter of 370 mm and wall thickness of 14 mm. Out of the 116,000
tons produced in 1977, 69,000 tons were consumed locally together with 19,000
tons of imports, and the remaining 47,000 tons were exported, mainly in the
form of casings and drill collars, with 85 percent going to COMECON countries
and primarily to the USSR. With a capacity of 130,000 tpy, the project will
contribute to meeting domestic requirements for 60,000 tpy by 1985, of which
about half would substitute for imports and the other half would be trans-
ferred from the existing large seamless pipe mill which now produces with
great difficulty pipes with a diameter higher than 340 mm. Of the 70,000
tpy available for export from the project in the mid 1980's, 35,000 tpy are
expected to go to the USSR and China, both very promising markets for the
future, and with which Romania already has long experience.  The balance,
35,000 tpy would be exported to other countries (mainly oil producing coun-
ries) where it would constitute less than 3 percent of total trade.
50.       Examination of the international market for large seamless pipes
shows that while in 1980 some surplus production capacity is expected to
remain, demand and supply are expected to be in balance by 1985. Demand in
non-Communist countries is expected to increase by about 4.5 percent annually
over the 1978-85 period and over the same period Communist country net imports
from OECD countries are estimated to increase substantially above the present
200,000 tpy. On the supply side, about 500,000 tpy additional capacity is
expected to be installed by 1985. During the last few years, export prices
for large seamless pipes have been extremely volatile as a result of stock-
piling by oil companies in 1974-75 followed by world economic recession. In



- 15 -
1976 and 1977 export prices hit a record low, declining by more than 50 per-
cent. In 1978 they have increased again, but still remain lower than during
1960-70 when they were not subject to sudden fluctuation. As the demand
picture is likely to improve steadily up to 1985, it is expected that prices
will increase by 5 percent in real terms by then. To take full advantage of
these export opportunities, Romania needs to improve its export sales organi-
zation. Provided it does so (see para. 51), it should be able to export
35,000 tpy successfully on the international market. However, in case the
market in other countries does not develop as anticipated, exports to COMECON
countries and China could be further increased as those countries are expected
to remain substantial net-importers of large diameter seamless pipes.
51.       Exports from the project will be handled by METALIMPORTEXPORT, the
national pipe export sales organization, which operates through a network of
representatives based in Romania's embassies abroad. If Romania is to achieve
the high volume of exports anticipated from the project and from other pipe
investments in Romania, METALIMPORTEXPORT will have to streamline its market
organization and sales policies, including technical assistance to customers,
regularity of deliveries, extension of credit and pricing. As a part of the
market analysis (see para. 47), the Investment Bank would cause a review of
the appropriate set-up and arrangements for export marketing to be carried out
by June 30, 1980, and would exchange views with the Bank on its findings (Sec-
tion 3.02 Loan Agreement).
The Borrower
52.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for investment
projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including water
resources) and food processing. It has a large technical and economic staff
with branch offices in all districts of the country. The Investment Bank's
involvement in investment projects begins with preparation; its staff appraises
all major investment projects technically and financially and recommends for
or against their financing to the Government. When a particular project and
its financial plan has been approved by the Council of State, all funds are
channelled through the Investment Bank in accordance with the approved finan-
cial plan. All payments for the execution of a project must be authorized by
the Investment Bank, which keeps separate accounts for each category in the
financial plan for every enterprise. The Investment Bank is required to
ensure that a project is executed according to the financial and technical
data included in the final technical and economic study approved by the
Council of State. Its inspectors check whether the project is proceeding
according to the schedule approved in the Plan.
53.       While the Investment Bank's supervision and control function is
thus rather strong during implementation of a project, its functions are much
more limited during operation of a project. Although it has the right and
obligation to verify that an enterprise is meeting the targets set in the
investment plan, it has no legal authority to influence directly the manage-
ment of the enterprise or to force the enterprise directly to take operational



- 16 -
actions which it considers necessary. In practice, however, it can request
such actions very effectively by reporting through the Ministry of Finance to
the Government.
54.       The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing other than in agriculture, but its own funds for onlend-
ing as credits are relatively small. The primary source of its funds is the
State Budget. The Government would ensure the availability of sufficient
funds including foreign exchange requirements for the implementation and
operation of the project (Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement). The Government
would also ensure that the Investment Bank can meet the debt service on the
Bank loan (Section 2.01, Guarantee Agreement). The Government confirmed that
the new economic reforms (see para. 20) will not affect the role of the
Investment Bank as a channel for Bank funds, nor the agreements reached for
the proposed project.
The Beneficiary
55.       The project would be an expansion of the existing Roman Enterprise
which was established in 1957 to produce seamless pipe. Its present produc-
tion capacity is 450,000 tpy, of which 116,000 tpy are large seamless pipes
(above 270 mm). The mills are well maintained and operated. A new mill with
a capacity of 110,000 tpy has just been commissioned, and another mill to
produce small diameter pipes and with a capacity of 86,000 tpy is under con-
struction.
56.       Roman Enterprise is a fully established organization with full legal
authorities and jurisdictions as normal under Romanian law. Decision making
power at the enterprise level formally belongs to the Enterprise's General
Assembly which includes all the workers and normally meets twice a year. A
Working People's Executive Committee, chaired by the enterprise's General
Director and consisting of elected workers' representatives and some members
of the management is responsible for operations. The General and Technical
Managers of the enterprise are responsible for implementing the decisions of
the Executive Committee.
57.       The financial position and performance of Roman Enterprise are
satisfactory. Under the new economic reforms announced recently in Romania,
individual enterprises will have greater financial autonomy than previously.
This is not expected to alter Roman Enterprise's future financial position.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
58.       The project was proposed to the Bank in February 1976 as one of a
number of projects for which the Romanians sought Bank financing during the
1976-80 Five Year Plan. Following preparation of project data requested
by the Bank, it was identified as a project of further interest in May 1976.
A preparation mission visited Romania in April 1977 to further discuss the



- 17 -
project. More complete information on the project was received in July 1977,
and additional preparation missions visited Romania in August and November
1977. Thie project was appraised in March 1978, and negotiations were held in
Washington in November 1978. The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. Gheorghe
Popescu, President of the Investment Bank, and included representatives of the
Investment Bank and the Ministry of Metallurgical Industries. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 2090 RO of December 15, 1978) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
Project I)escription
59.       The project would consist of a Pilger mill, the first of its kind in
the country, with a capacity of about 130,000 tpy of seamless wall pipe with a
diameter range of 270-680 mm, wall thickness of 7-50 mm and fabricated from
carbon atnd alloy steel. About 100 different types of pipes would be produced,
in the form of casings, line pipes, construction pipes and boiler tubes. The
project would include ingot preparation facilities, a main Pilger line capable
of transforming ingots into tubes up to 500 mm diameter, a hot expansion press
to enable 4,000 tpy of the Pilger mill production to be enlarged up to 680 mm,
finishing facilities and ancillary facilities such as maintenance workshops.
It is to be located at Roman, 500 km north of Bucharest, as an expansion of
the existing Roman Enterprise. Some of the ingot preparation facilities, now
tentatively planned at Roman enterprise, would be better located at Tirgoviste
Steel Works, the raw materials source. The Government would exchange views on
this matter with the Bank, before the final decision is made, and in any event
not later than December 31, 1979 (Schedule 2 Loan Agreement). The ingots
presently produced at Tirgoviste are not of the quality necessary for the
project. While Tirgoviste has an adequate program underway to expand its
steel making capacity and upgrade its ingot making facilities, additional
knowhow and expertise will be needed to produce ingots of the quality required
by the project. The Government would make all the necessary investments at
Tirgoviste for Pilger ingot production in a timely manner; would make appro-
priate arrangements with the Pilger mill supplier for testing outside Romania
the Pilger ingots produced by Tirgoviste Steel Works at least 18 months before
the scheduled commissioning of the project; and, if the tests show that the
ingots are not of the quality required, would take all necessary measures,
including technical assistance, to obtain ingots of the quality and in the
quantity required by the project at least six months before the scheduled
commissioning date (Section 4.01(a) Loan Agreement). The supply of utilities
is satisfactory and the project includes adequate measures to protect the
environment. The Government agreed that Roman Enterprise would staff the
project at adequate levels (Section 4.01(b)(iv), Loan-Agreement).
Project Implementation
60.       The project would be implemented by the existing Roman Enterprise,
which has had long experience of steel pipe manufacturing. A project manage-
ment team is being selected now and will consist of staff from the Central,
Roman Enterprise, METAROM (the foreign trade enterprise of the Ministry of
Metallurgical Industries), and IPROLAM (design institute of the Central). The
team will be led by a Project Manager, who will report to the General Director



- 18 -
of Roman Enterprise, and be responsible for overall project coordination as
well as site construction. Under Romanian law, civil works and construction
will be carried out by construction trusts from the Ministry of Industrial
Construction, under the supervision of IPROLAM, and international procurement
will be handled by METAROM. Local procurement will be carried out by the
Project Manager. These sorts of arrangements are well established under the
Romanian system and have worked satisfactorily for previous projects. Tech-
nical assistance on engineering, procurement, erection, training, commission-
ing and operation of the project will be provided by the supplier of the
Pilger mill. Procurement for project technology and main equipment has
already started and the main contract is expected to be signed in March 1979.
The project is scheduled to be completed by mid 1982 and to operate at full
capacity by 1986.
Project Cost and Financing
61.       The estimated total financing required for the project, including
interest during construction, is $139.4 million equivalent, with an estimated
foreign exchange component of $74.4 million. The costs of equipment and
materials as well as working capital have been estimated at prices prevail-
ing in March, 1978. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent
of the base cost. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based
on an annual increase of 7-7.5 percent for imported equipment during the
construction period. Due to very low inflation under the Romanian system of
administered prices, price contingencies on local costs have been calculated
at one percent per anum.
62.       The proposed Bank loan of $40 million would finance 54 percent of
the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The proposed loan to the
Investment Bank would be for 15 years including a grace period of 3 years and
would be guaranteed by the Government. Of the balance of the foreign exchange
costs, an estimated $20 million would be financed by suppliers' or financial
credits or a mixture of both. The Investment Bank would arrange this financ-
ing by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.03 Loan Agreement). The remaining $14.4
million, including interest during construction, together with all local cur-
rency funds required by the project would be financed from the State Budget.
The approval and effectiveness of the technical and economic indicators 1/
for the project by the Government would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (Section 7.01 Loan Agreement).
Procurement
63.       Procurement for the project is underway.  There are three main cate-
gories. The main technology/equipment package for the core of the Pilger
1/   The technical and economic indicators document is the final approval
required by law for each major investment project in Romania. It estab-
lishes the physical, financial and economic indicators for the project.



- 19 -
mill, estimated to cost $32 million, is being procured under international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Pilger mill
technology is highly specialized and worldwide there are only two companies
which are capable of supplying the Pilger mill. Following a two stage bidding
procedure, technical discussions have been completed and separate bids on a
cash and credit basis will be requested in January, 1979. It is expected
that credit financing on reasonable terms and conditions will be available
for a major portion of this package. Other imported equipment and spares, not
manufactured in Romania at present, and estimated to cost $28 million, would
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines by the end of 1979. A smaller amount of less specialized
equipment, which is manufactured in Romania, and estimated to cost $8 million
would also be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines by the end of 1979. Romanian suppliers participat-
ing in such international competitive bidding would be accorded a margin of
preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
It is expected that Romanian bidders would win almost all these contracts.
Imported equipment and spares in all the categories described above, but
either available from a limited number of suppliers or needed at a critical
juncture, or costing less than $250,000 up to a total of US$2 million may be
purchased after solicitation of bids from at least three member countries and
Switzerland, subject to prior Bank approval of the lists of items concerned.
Disbursement
64.       As discussed above (para. 62), it is expected that cofinancing
credits would finance a major portion of the main technology package. Thus
it is expected that the Bank loan would be disbursed over about three years
for (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technology, training, tech-
nical assistance, and some proprietary equipment, i.e. the balance of the
main technology package ($7.0 million); (ii) 100 percent of foreign exchange
expenditures for other imported equipment and spares ($28.0 million); and
(iii) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for other equipment and
spares which are expected to be won by Romanian suppliers following inter-
national competitive bidding ($5.0 million). In the event that credits for
the main technology package are not available or that their terms and condi-
tions are more onerous than those for bilateral lines of credit available
to finance the other imported equipment and spares, the Bank loan would be
disbursed over about three years for 100 percent of foreign expenditures on
the main technology package ($32.0 million), and the balance would be divided
between other imported equipment and spares ($5 million) and other equipment
and spares ($3 million). Any changes in the agreed list of all equipment
and serviices in the project however financed and eligible for Bank financing
would be made only by prior agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
Benefits and Risks
65.       Tne piuject would contribute to meeting Romania's growing and more
varied demand for large seamless pipe products, and would enable Romania to
earn scarce foreign exchange, by more than doubling its exports of large
seamless pipe products. Pipes produced under the project would find a wide



- 20 -
range of applications across Romanian industry, including oil and gas explora-
tion and production, chemicals, boiler, machine tool and earth moving equip-
ment manufacture and ship building, and marine platform manufacture - thus
making a major contribution to Romania's continuing development effort. Net
annual foreign exchange benefits of the project at full production are esti-
mated at $74 million. Transfer of the Pilger mill technology will also
be a benefit to the Romanian pipe industry. The project would be located
in a region with relatively little industry and would provide employment for
about 900 people. The estimated economic rate of return for the project is
12 percent, which compares favorably with return expectations for investments
of this kind in industrial countries.
66.       The major risk to the project is the vulnerability of its economic
viability to the high share of production for export and the consequent impact
of fluctuations in international prices. However the long-term international
market which is based on world energy exploration, production and consumption
appears favorable, and Romania's share of the international market will not
exceed 3 percent with the project at full production. In addition, if market
opportunities in countries other than China and members of COMECON did fall
below expectations, Romania could increase without much difficulty its exports
to COMECON countries (USSR in particular) and to China. These countries will
be major pipe importers in the future, and Romania maintains close ties with
them. Further, the implementation of the recommendations of the market
analysis (see paras. 47 and 51) would limit the risks to the project. Under
these conditions, the commercial and marketing risks of the project are
considered acceptable. There is a moderate risk that steel ingots of the
required quality could temporarily not be produced in Romania but this would
be minimized by the assurances on ingot testing outside Romania, training for
ingot production, and technical assistance if required. There is also a small
risk of possible delays in project completion and of technical difficulties
in the early years of operation as the project will be the first pipe mill in
Romania using the Pilger technology. But the Pilger process is well proven,
Romania is experienced in seamless pipe production, and as mentioned above
technical assistance is available and would be sought if required.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
68.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
69.       The special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that
the technical and economic indicators for the project have been approved by
the Government and have become effective (Section 7.01 Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
70.       I am satisified that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 21, 1978
Washington D.C.



-22 -LX
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3'
ONMIA - "ICLL I:DICATOUS DATA SHtET
RmER9XCH CROUP8 (ADJU8TtD AVERA:RS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.) I                                               - NOST U_CW  RSTI3MATE)
TOTAL            237.5                                                   8MSE        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     149.0                                IOStT RECOT      GECEDHtC    ISC0I          ICQIZ
19t0  /b    1970  EbTDEAT2           REGION jl j  03OW        GIL QOUP /l
GNP PER CAPITA 1USJ)                 190.0        530.0    1580.0          1898.8      1798.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSDKPrIOW PER CAPITA
(KILORRIA8 OF COAL EUYIVALtIT)    1342.0      3013.0    3803.0           1869.3      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                        18.4        20.3       21.7               .
URBAN POPULATION (PERCUIT OP TOTAL) 32.0         40.8      43.0            43.0        52.2
FOPULATION DENSITY
PEE SQ. KM.                       77.0         85.0      91.0            81.4        27.6        55.8
PER SQ. EN. ACRICULTURAL LAND    126.0        136.0     146.0           135.2       116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         27.9 if      25.9      25.4            26.2        34.8        40.0
13-64 YRS.                         64.9 L      65.5       64.8            63.4        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ASOVE                   7.2 /        8.6       9.8             9.9         S.7         3.8
POPULATION CROWF  RLTE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.2          1.0       1.0             0.8         1.6         2.9
URBAN                              3.8          3.4       2.1             2.2         3.4
C*RUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.9         19.0      19.7             19.2       27.0        31.7
CRUDF DEZATB RATE (PER THOUSAND)     10.9         8.9       9.3              9.0        9.9          7.F
*.ROSS REPRODUCTION RATe              1.2         1.3       1.3              1.3        1.9          1.6
FAMIILY IlLANNI IP.
ACCPFroRS. AcSOAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (ERCErT oY MARRED IEN)    ..               ..        ..             38.0       19.3
POOD_00  L NUJTRITION
IDex OF N)OD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             96.2        100.0     146.1            113.7      103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY 0O
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
kEQUIREDENTSI)                 105.0        118.0     118.0 IA         127.4      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          81.0         92.0      90.0 Li         92.8        77.7        89.9
OF M9HICH ANIlMAL AND PULSE     24.0         28.0        ..             39.3       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      4.9 /f       2.4       2.1              1.6        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.9         67.7      69.1             68.9       63.0         60.2
ISIFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           75.7         49.4      34.7             34.5       38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCEST OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..            68.3        67.7        83.0
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..             74.3       83.5        100.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             64.4       41.5
ACCSS TO IXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..             94.0       70.3        57.8
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..             94.0       90.7        99.3
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             93.0       38.3           ..
POPUIATION PER PHySICIAN           740.0        680.0     620.0            686.5     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      300.0        200.0     180.0            339.0      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER hI.   L BED
TOTAL                            130.0 If 120.0         108.0            178.0      275.4        325.8
URBAN                             50.0 /f      50.0      60.0             70.0      129.9       250.0
RURAL                            620.0 i      770.0     730.0           1770.0      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED            ..        23.0         ..            15.3        18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSShOLD
TOTAL                                ..           2                                   3.9
UrBAN                                           2.8
RURAL                               ..          3.4k       ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PtR ROOH
TOTAL                                ..         1.4/X .h                   0.9        0.9
URBAN                                ..         I.3J)      .               0.P
RURAL                                ..         14         .               1.0         1:0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        49.0                       57.5        59.2
URAL                                           27 0                       99.0        78. 
RURAL                                          27.0                         .         12.5



- 23 -                                        ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page 2 of 5 pages
ROMANlA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNEST
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGCl
MtST RZCENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCQ4E         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Le   GROUP /c    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENIOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMY:       TOTAL                  98.0        113.0      109.0            108.0       97.6        104.1
FENALI                95.0        114.0      109.0             99.5       87.4        120.3
SECONDYAT:   TOTAL                  24.0         45.0      62.0             62.8        47.8         44.7
FEKULE                22.0         38.0      59.0              63.6       42.6         46O
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SEOONDARY) 54.0           58.0      70.0              28.2       22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TFACOE  PATIO
PRIMART                             25.0         21.0      21.0              24.9       25.4         30.6
SECDNDART                           16.0         18.0      19.0              17.3       24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                                 98.0             88.3       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TEUSARD
POPULATION                                   .                 .            90.4        32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TOUSAID
POPULATION                         109.0        152.0     145.0             199.0      201.9        195.5
TV EECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PoPULATION                           3.0         73.0     127.0             132.5       97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CZNZRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION pER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  147.0        169.0      129.0             97.1       70.9        108.0
CIN(A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0             9.8        1.9              6.6        4.4
Et4PLOYtUNT
TOTAL LAWOR FORCE (TEOUSANDS)       9600.0       990O0.   10600.0                 ,
F1lXALE (PERCENT)                   44.9         44         44.6            32.4        17.4         26.9
ArRICULTURE (PFERCiT)               65.4         49.0       34.4             32.8       38 4         25.7
I1IDUSTLY (PERCENT)                 15.1         23.0       32.7
PARTICPATION RAtE (PEiCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.1         56.0       55.9             39.1       33.7         40.1
MALE                                  64.5         63.3       62.8             56.7       50.8 5.8
FEIALE                                50.1         49.0       49.1             29.7        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.7          0.7        0.7              0.9         1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCEi!T OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                              31.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         -                                   59.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                               4.0        3.2
LOWESr 40 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS                                              12.9       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCiOM
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URitiAN
RURAL                                  .           .          ..            194.9      157.9.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTTY INCWI
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                       295.1      448.8
RURAL                                                      325.0            309.2      313 1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                                        18.2       23 2
RURAL                                                      10-20             24 .2      54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
huju.1ted Kroup aver.ge- fur -a., lndl-atur are population-weighted geume'ric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the moat populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators dependo on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unlesa otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Hott PR.zent Estinate, between 1973 and 1977.
I     Europe;  /d   Upper Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  le  Hight Income  (over $2500 per capita,
1916);   /f  1962; I&  Av. 1969-71;  /h  1966.
September. 1978



- 2~4-
pEfliTloms c7 SOIAL IImDICATOS                                                      MiNEX   I
Page 3 of 5pae
Ho.Le:  Tho edjoetceda group -an-R..s for eawi,      iao  anp,wao-eg                 .dgometric. moe, ... nclu1di.g the extreme vaue   f the Itiditcter ad the moat
populatd  country In..eac grouP.  CoverSag  ci countrIes saong tho indiCatora dependo On eViliabiltLy of data end isot oinifore.  Due to lack of data,
group arrgsfor Capital Surplus oii Loyo:ter, up! Indicacora Of aces.o  to water and toccata disposal,  ,ousiftg.  income distribution aci  poverty are
simple Pnj.ultion-weightsd geoentric means eithout rho eaccaioni of extras value..
L:TAND An~ (thoeu.snd eq. ha)                                                                Pplap1tionprheialhd-ttl  uba.  soad  mrur   - Population  (Ltoal.
T,tal   T.tocl nu.rf-c  area conpriatog len,t urea and inland waters..urban,  und rora.) divIded by their raapoctie eusbarfof hopial beds~
Aircuture  - motoe  reront eatisete rf agricultu,ral area ueed temporarily                    available in public and Private geocral and epecializoed boepital. and re-
or.p;ranarratly for crops, Psatures, marker sod hitchen gardens or to                       hebilitation canter..  Ho.pltbals are establiehmante permanently staffed by
liefelow,                                                                                  at least on  phyc eioin. tats Itsblhasnce providiag principally cuatodial
carsear  vonc lidad.  Pural bospirale, however,  include health aod medi-
GOP PE_RCAPIT~A_(KUS$  - liP per capita eri-etes ac a.rrnt marker prices,.,                    cIal  eters nt~p-anmacly eteffed by e physician, (bus by a medical e.-
calculated by sca     ..e oovraion method ae World Baab Atlas (1975-77 hbea);               al.atuot  nuse   ndifa, etr,) which offer in-pstient accosaodatlon end
1960, 1970, ad 1977 data.                                                                   provide a limited rang. of medical facilitiee.
Adnisioe nr bonirl bd -Total oumber of admission. to or discharges
IEglrYi COOSL'MPTION EfR CAPITA -  ooAl ..ILooauption of commeroial energy                     fo  heirl  divided by the numbe r of hado..
(oral sod 11Soire. petrolaue. natural gas and hydro-, ouclasr and gee-
themL, electricity) Io kilograms of coal equivalent per rapits.                        gousiOc                                          o..hl)-ttlura                    ed-1
POPULAIffS flit VITAL STATlbTICS                                                               A hou...hold u-oiats of A oroup of Indnidu.ao who ahare living quarterm
Tutj,jp.;uro~jo~-ouc3LLin-) - Ae of July 1; if not availeble,                          and rhair main.ea         A hoarder or lodger may or may rot be included in
coerair of ruu e--year estimates; 196i, 1970. and 1977 data,                                the baahoi..hd for atatirtu.a1 PurPOSes.  Ststc.iairs  defiaitiono of honea-
UrsIan gyy      o(kroretofttl  - gatio of urban to total popels-                              hold nary.
do.n; difforeor dfiljinitoo  of urban  rcea  may affect comparability                    AVeracarune   fproaorro   total, urban, and coral - Averageon
Of Ioac  aon  countoiee.                                                                    bar of prsons per ruce in all, urban, -and rural occupied conventionial
Esul-attun d-ioty                                                                             dueltno.S.  rsspeoti-lip.  D"ellinga eccuds nou-permen,n.t structures and
Per        hr  -Od-year popu,lation per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      un ccupied Puris.
oi total aree.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Ar-see tr_rlo,rcrccc(ecn   fdelre             oa,ubn   o  rural -
,frf mq  ho  auc-icuirure land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Cno iro    wlinswth electricity In living quarters ce porreaotge
only,                                                                                       of total, urban, and mrurl dwellings  respectively.
PPo,lartinn aur- nt-.ct-r   Jrret) - Children (0.-li yeara). working-age
(lb-u4 yoars), and retired (h5 years cod over) ae psrceetgegr  of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ jj~~~stod  onTeciloent rlutiosl.ntOf.11g.
Pplatio n oroth rote (yerret) - tore!,_and urha  - Caepou..d anul-iansho      oal.o1oae-Trladfeaesrlen   Palae
greuth ratoc of total and orben mid-year populations for 1950-60,                           at the primary loon  uu percentageo of reepectiv-ly primary  cohool-rga
19h0-70, and 1970-lu.                                                                       poulton;       1onai  in,ulode   children  aged 6-11 yeers hut ad,~uetd for
.Crude birth rate (ker tho-end) - Annual live births per thousand of                          diffarent lengths of poloiary educa.tion; fnv coouorrrc  withonnra  edu-
mid-pear popu1ltr-on: to-y-a  er ith.."Lo  uv1rrgaaeonding In 1960 and                      oation ennolinuo  map encrad 100 paruen.t since some pupile are hel1t o
1970 and fi ice-po   uc ge ending In 1975 for aeont repent estimate.                        shoVa the  ffl.ica   school ais..
Crudedesbrth     jo              Auuqj  - .Annua  deaths per thousa.nd of mid-              Seodr   col-cnl   o   iae-Conputad as abne; secoundary eduro-
ysa-   ocolo   o-ya   rtatu                 rrgaedn   n16  and 1970tico rcreat irot four yeasr  of approvd primary inatr-ntion; pro-
so  ryo    r u  Sr.a  ed   9irc n i91   for mas  rceet esimte,                        ride. genarel rotiooul. or teacher troaioog inu.rroti... for- pupila
Grosn  red, r ao rte -Acerags nunbee of daughtsa   a woman will hea                           ucually of 12 to 11 years of age; -orrsponden.o  coureca are generally
In her -noma  teprductine period if ash  eopacie..oee p.0... nasg-                         ...cluded.
'Veciftc fertility ratea; .a.. lip fire ya-or averogss  ending to 1960,                  V.c. co.      erlont(orn  or ne.oedryj - O-cailoa .                  a.   runcst-
1971,.lend 1.975.                                                                           _ido tochnicu,-n1        tec,   or other prograom  wich operate irdepandeotly
raiy,jvieR -- tcceoror..anrua         ... nrouada) - Annual number of                   or Le departments of cecoodery inatitutiore.
acoprora. of birth-control deniosa under auspIcee of national fmlly                     Puoll-isacher ratio - prinary. and secondary - Total  trdente enrolled in
PIl..tnso progrun.                                                                          priLuay and Pe.condury Iave1o divided by nmbers of teaobers in the cor,.-
Tanijjjpncr._-   ero   percnt o  mariedwome) -Percentage of                    apooding levle..
married 000c of chld-bearing age (l-i  years) who use birth-cnotro1                     Adult  itryroafcen)-Literate ed;olte  (able, to read and wnte) me
de-icee to all marrid womoe  in same ago group.                                             a percantage Of total adult population aged 15 yearo and over.
7110D o'c FtUITIILN                                                                       CONSLSPTION
Indcco  for  yndurtioo.perfooptia (19701110)t-eloda   nueber of Per                       PA .. see -_er. oars  (prh. chced_2ooeoltine) - Pa...enger care ronprier macor care
cait   noa   pr-otin ofall food cooditIeS.                                       mecting ise. than e1~ht Persons ; enoludee anbhuia.o... bearass sod military
Pro m capta    , supy   -I of clr Ies _  ierorMtor n 1i recuernnrs t   - Conputad from      -hiel...
e.ncg  eiaet-  of net food aupp lien avilable in rountry per capite                     Radio recci.orr_ (2erth-usand_population) - All rypeI of receine:ra forradio
per day.: Analah supplIes tcnprier domes.tic production, iaporte lass hroadcaete to ge...rol public por th....ad of populaton ano.Iudoua .n.i..n.e
enpoera, and chargen in anock. aNt aupplias noitade animal feed, .e.da. reo..i-aro in cotrole. and In years when regltrrati-r of radio, mero won In
quan tities card in food proees..iop. and be.... indatio            tn    Re-            arfect; deco for recroc years -y not be coeperable  lu m             oa. ..t ocuotelen
quironeoret  weeitimated.byiFAG booed on physiloogical ..eoda for nor-                   sholiahed ionii
ma! ectiotyadhealth ronsideringoirn ntltanmperarure, body                               TV recivers  (per thu.u.d    Toultin              c - .. iecei Iera for hndcsot to gorortL
weight.,an  and sen dierributiona  of population, cad  lloIng 10 per-                       pulcarhosdypiain;oodeuieeedTtravraino-
cetfor-ar     *th'u,,o level.                                                            trios cod Lu yeasr  wIn. -egietoatin  fi TV met. w-o In effect.
Per copira .upyly of Protein  Caca.s oer duo) - Pontelo content of par                    AewapePrecc...u..d                            ""..)ooojfci5jy   - Shuwo tha avrage circnla-
cayira no  nuppip' of luod percday,  ne  nppIyp of food,i todfineda                         toni  fdoily geonrel intereecnowepaper',. defined saaponiocical publi-
chn.b    Ocqleeec..     foe...ounries eabisht    bySdA provide for                          cation devoteLd potourtly to recordina  Iees   es             t Is con-iderod to
a minimMum clIewunce of 60 irene of total protein par day and 20 gr-n he 'deily" if it uppsars at lcast foor tines 0 we.ab.
of anIma  and pulee pronsin. of uhioh 10  rore, should ha animal protein.               fir-aana   uttndu,ccepe  -unite  per o.re?- Based on  he somber of tickets
Thoaeuradsrdo  arc mor  la th         aeo  75 grame of  toto  protein and                   acId during th. eapor. Including adoisena to dome-in oinn    a.d eoilie
l21rm   f  nea   rotrouar roeoe for "teerld, propeeed by                                   uits.
FAl in the. Thlird World Food Survey.
Per capit   roei  opfyRoe  ncouel adnolsa1   - Protein supply of fond                    DIPL0.fYiNT
derived trot acitl.ol  cc    lad   in gtooa Per day.                                    Toa_eo   oj,thccnede   - Eoonomically ati-e  peratna, i-olodior arnd
Child,4 (out, 1-4) nLorclr   race  (prAcsn)-druel deaths per thous-                           for,:,ree cod cempyrdt1hc,r accidIng hounoives, encurota, sc.  Defi i-
end In age group 1-4 losars, to childrec co thta age group,                                 tirit  Incelu  cu rircer  notScoeparable.
F- femle   babr force as  poron..tago of total 1eb-r Iceca
.tAI.fh                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAri!cc'turj_pr_c_tt), - Labor~ farre in farming, for-utry, bunting and fushirsg
tie enyroctony_or bi2rth (,yee.p  - Averec number of year. of life                            sn   c-tcocc. ci total labor forco.
remini,ng at birth~; .usualy flbs-pea   overagee ending in 19b0, 1070,                   rutr    pecu,- Labor force in mining. construotfo,  amanuf-c-uing and
and 1975.                                                                                  elactririly, ococ anod gue aa percoetaee   toftoal labo  force.
bruntocru  i,tL rot    -pe  thou  ''     A.,ual deaths of inante under               PotIcrt  croe ccc -tta,min,  an   aml  - Tota,  eaI.. end
onepos  of air pee tnousend lic   .uor                                                   c.aml0 Ishbr f-. e a  p-rcecu,   It their  -oPurti-eppitcs
.Alee  to  uo  sa   ilrfnto(p  u1cicn   - toa,    abr    n   ua                               Theaser. tIne .  dj-cced participeti on reree rafilecclngeee-ee..
Nuabor of pooplo (totl,1 uran   u        --c.ri)wt    .ea              ...o rce  to         actr cue f n.e pryclation. and inn  time treed.
,If,vca   supply (ittludee treated erfoeatoe ot                r a Lnteetd but          trcporlr dococoo,  ratio - Rastio of po palatiuc, under 15 sod 65 and o-er to
unontoLa ted voter euh  s thtfn p,trotoo               hrholee. epin,the labut luc   ~ogs group of 1 5-64 peace.
Ic  n  rbo  aea    clli  fcrti  or . sndpost loocis   utco                       tfol  lf!n2
chon Ill  otoru  0" oceho-ee may ho redroasbeing within r.a-                             1orrtj,picc    rr,ccn  (both in cash and biad) received by richest 
notable cr00  of thor huua-a.  to  -ru1re      .. area   reac I...h.. screa wold           prar    cuu  lb) pco.poreec 20 Percnt. aend poorest .0 percent
tpy Ltu  the horwoor tehes  f tehuah.                old do  o   av   oofhuehls
spend a diuproyorcio...te parrof  he day In fetchin  tho fa11lye
vo ter needa.                                                                          POVIlTn _T4.CF_TcltJis
dlapons :I -percerluge  otthei   eyrcor ictins.  tocecta                                   nuitriro. l    focredetpu  eaeoe   ocr-fond  -aquree...n. ia oct
dieoa  ma  Iuld   me   ollccoou    diepusal., with orw,h,t                                  efforduble.
or .h. .e   fpeytiesdae11trsltoe h..o..l.r,                 badcupoc     oo    ee   aro                                                  pacrm icn   ee rt      ooe-Si
phyalceco oroilfod fro  a nedcci  ehnol a  onivceity  eceR.t  ti.otQplloP---             he         toyrerc  .    --r locl -esceI.. -h. -c     tr-1sod ne
Pop.loclccrrrilPa.r     oulto  dVIidd: btycu-hr.of Patndc   oulor  (uban end rura)  h, are eitheraholt  poor"o
gcooumdc end Social Iota tivi-co
Ec.onoic Anaipeie end Projeotio.a Daperrent



-25 -                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2 constant prices)
US$ Min.      2          1961-65        1966-70        1971-75        1975-77
GNP at Market Prices                        30,300         100.0        9.01/           7.71/         11.31/         g
Gross Fixed Domestic Investmrenb             8,463         27.9        11.3            11.2           11.2           9.9
Gross Natiornal Saving                       8,157         26.9
Current Account Balance                       -306           1.0          .                             . 2/3/
Export of Goods, NFS                         7,523         24.8         9 o2/3/       10 92/3/       23 6--        14:72/3/
Imports of Goods, NFS                        7,537         24.9        l0:7123/       1272/3/       22  L3IA1     14.6_ 3/
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
National Income 41       Labor Force           N.I. Per Worker
US$ Bln.         %      Mln          .         US $        -  X
Agriculture                                   3.29        13.2       3.53    34.4             932         38.3
Industry                                     13.22        53.0       3.36    32.7          3,935        161.7
ConstruWtioni                                 2.33         9.3       0.90      8.8          2,589       106.4
Other 5/                                      6.12        24.5       2.47    24.1          2,478        101.8
Total/Average                          24.96       100.0     10.26   100.0           2,433        100.0
GOVERNEN'T FINANCE IN 1977
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                                 282.0             46.2
Total Expenditures                             280.4             43.9
Total Surplus                                     1.6              0.3.
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(i.n billions of Lei, end of year)
1971      1972        1973        1974        1975       1976       1977
Money Supply                                                                  160.1       176.4       201.4     207.5
Short-tern Bank Credit                                            131.3       155.3       170.2       194.0     194.5
Retail PricLs (1970 = 100)                  101.6      101.6       102.4      103.7       103.9       104.4     105.0
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           1.6        -           0.8        1.3         0.2         0.5       0.5
1/ Growth rate of national income.                                                EMBA CPlD
2/ In currenit prices.
3/ Growth raLtei ol export!i niid iniports only.                                  December 13, 1978
4/  System ul miter i a  production methodology
5/  includes neL output ot the noun-productive sector.



ANNEX I
- 26 -                             Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYfEXTS  (Convertible Currencies)                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1977
(All Currencies)
1971        1976         1977
(Millions US $)                                   US $ Min       %
Expofts of Goods & NFS                  +944        +3,653        3,983   Capital goods               1,837      27
Imports of Goods & WFS                   -988        -3,592       4,080   Consumer goods              1,142       17
Resource Gap (deficit u -)                 4           +61           -97   Foodstuffs                   888       13
Intermediate goods           592       9
Interest Payments                         -40          -122        -195   Rav materials               2,422       35
Other Factor Payments (net)               -25           0           +19   _ .Industrial               2,016       29
Balance on Current Account              -109            -61        -273     Agricultural                406        6
Direct Foreign Inv stment                                                        Total                6.881      100
Net fLST Borrowing-
Disbursements                       +312          +912         +928          EXTERNAL DEBT (Dec.31. 1977).
Amortization                        -190          -482         -561
Subtotal                            +122          4430         +367                                   US $ Mln
Export Credits Extended'/ (net)             2/         -274        -171
Short-term Credit (net)                   -20           -44        +156   Total M & LT                     3,i9l
Net Errors & Omission                       .            -            -      of vhich convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                   -7          +52          +32      currencies                    3,402
Fuel & Related Materials
Imports                               635.6       2,496.8      2,622.1          DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1977
of vhich  Oil and Oil Prod'cts       36.6         717.1        8T5.4
Exports                               425.5       1,477.5      1,463.0                                    %
of vhich  Oil and Oil Products    143.0           T35.1        688.1
Convertible currencies only 19.0
EXCHANGE RATES
1. Official Rate
Before August 1971            :  6 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973   :  5.53 lei:US$l
February 1973-March 1978         4.97 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                 4.47 lei;US$l
2.  Tourist Rate
Before August 1971               18 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973        16 lei:US$1
February 1973-October 1974       14.38 lei:US$1
Since October 1974               12 lei:US$1
3. Conversion Rate for -Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978           20 lei:US$1
Since March 1978                 18 lei:US$l
EMEN_A CPID
I/  Includes use of IMF credit.                                        DegemDber 13, 1978
2/ Included in M & LT Capital.
3/ Includes S, M & LT credits extended.



- 27 -                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS Or DAnB CBOUP OPERATTONS TX tOMAUTA
STATEMT OF BANK LOANS (As of November 30, 1978)
?B$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan Number          Year       Borrower           Purpose       Bank   TW  IDA    Undisburse4
One loan fully  dieburad                                         20.0                    -
Ln. 1020-R0          1974       Investment Bank    Fertilizer   60.0
Ln. 1027-R0          19T5       Investment Bank    Special       70.0                  7-9
Stee1
Ln. 1028-B0          1975       Investment Bank    Thernel       60.0                  0.7
Pover
Ln. 1082-3O          1975       BAlI               IrrigLtion   70.0                   4.9
La. 1083-RO          1975       DAMI               Agricultural 30.0                   7-
Credit
La. 1169-R0          1976       BAFI               7lood Recov- D0.0                   3.1
Ln. 1242-R0          1976       Investment Bank    Hydropower   50.0                  25.7
Ln. 1247-R0          1976       1AFI               Irrigation   60.0                  34.9
Ln. 1368-R0          1977       3*I               Irrigation   60.0                  47.3
Ln. 1436-R0          1977       Investment Bank    Bearings      38.0                 38.0
La. 1447-R0          1977       Investment Bank    Mlase Fiber  18.3                  10.5
Ln. 14I8-R0          1977       Investment Bank    Polyester    50.0                  29.0
La. 1479-R0          1978       BAFI               Agricultural 71.o                  58.5
Credit
La. 1509-R0          1978       BAAI                Irrigation   40.5                 40.5
La. 1536-RO          1978       Investment Bank    Tire          85.0                 85.0
Ln. 1581-R0          1978       Investment Bank    Post          60.0                 60.0
Earthquake
Total.                          882.8                464.6
Of vhich baa been repaid          -
Total nov outstanding           882.8
Amount sold        18.6
of which repaid                18.6
bJ
Total nov held by Bank          864.2
Total undisbursed               464.6               46w.6
!/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
J Excluding exchange adjustments.
Note: A loan of $40 million to the Investment Bank for the Craiova Chemical
Project was approved subsequent to the above date of this
Statement; it is not yet signed.



- 28-                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement has been completed, and construction
is well advanced. The ammonia and the DAP plants are expected to be commis-
sioned by the end of 1978, and the urea plant by the second quarter of 1979,
about 18 months later than expected. The final project cost is expected to
be close to the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
The contracts for the two steel mills under the loan have been signed and
construction is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules. Total
project costs are expected to be essentially equal to appraisal estimates.
The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed in early 1979 and the project
is now expected to be completed in September 1979.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are
likely to result in a nine month delay in commissioning of generating units.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082    Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 99 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is almost
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
completed. About 70 percent of the project area was irrigated during 1978.
All remaining works are expected to be completed by April 1979. Total
project costs are expected to be about US$33 million less than appraisal
estimates, and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected to be can-
celled if not required for the project before the closing date.
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, is being carried out under bulk
contracts tendered internationally for 1978 Romanian requirements. Disburse-
ments amounted to US$22.5 million as of October 31, 1978 and are 10 percent
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are on
schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids were received in March 1977 for flood early warning system equipment.
The Romanians advised us that bid evaluation was delayed because of the tech-
nical complexity of the package, but the bid evaluation report has been sub-
mitted to the Bank, approved by the Bank, and the contract has been signed.
Disbursements as of October 31, 1978 totalled US$36.9 million or 92 percent
of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed
and mechanized excavation methods are expected to be introduced in early 1979.
Project execution is currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works
for the dam and underground power station are well underway, and about 75
percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
well underway and progress on these facilities is satisfactory. Facilities
for four dairy farms are complete and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported
heifers (100 percent of total) valued at over US$8 million have been awarded.
Procurement contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and
silo in Negruvoda is 62 percent completed. Work on soil erosion control and
the land levelling is behind schedule.



-30-                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for
the Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and all contracts have
already been awarded. Some construction equipment and about 35 percent of
pipe has been delivered. Construction of project works is underway, progress
is satisfactory, and about 25 percent completion has been achieved.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Prolect; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Bids on most major bid packages have now been received and procure-
ment is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall project costs are expected to be
close to, or slightly over, appraisal estimates, according to the initial cost
data.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement is being completed, and execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977: Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. BAFI has made
subloan commitments of US$298.4 million or 62 percent of total project costs.
Disbursements as of October 31, 1978 were US$11.6 million which equals the
appraisal estimates.
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Contract documents for procurement have been cleared by the Bank
and bids invited for all project procurement. Construction of some of the
project works has been started.



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Procurement has been started, but difficulties are being encountered
in obtaining proposals for the main technology/equipment package for OTR tires.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 32 -                    ANNEX III
ROMANIA - ROMAN SEAMLESS PIPE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                    Not known
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   Ministry of Metallurgical Industries
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of Bank mission to
consider the project:                   February, 1976, April 1976
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                March 20, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  December 7, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          Within three months of loan signing.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that
the technical and economic indicators for the project have been approved by
the Government and have become effective (paras. 62 and 69).
Other special conditions are:
(a)  The Investment Bank would cause a review of projected supply
and demand for steel pipes in both the domestic and interna-
tional markets by June 30, 1980, would submit this updated
analysis to the Bank and exchange views with the Bank on its
basis and conclusions including the appropriate set-up and
arrangements for export marketing (paras. 47 and 51).
(b)  The Government would make all the necessary investments at
Tirgoviste for Pilger ingot production; would make appropriate
arrangements with the Pilger mill supplier for testing outside
Romania the Pilger ingots produced by Tirgoviste Steel Works
at least 18 months before the scheduled commissioning of the
project; and, if the tests show that the ingots are not of the
quality required would take all necessary measures, including
technical assistance, to obtain ingots of the quality and in
the quantity required by the project at least six months
before the scheduled commissioning date (para. 59).



IBRD108951
-~~~~~~~~,P-5    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ rMAY ive
r,                                                                                                                                                        ,S               E       P       h
I;~~~M
. . n W X , ffi , 0/,L) N ,, < g > \ \sa 5 \ -, |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EW                                                                                                 5~
fi fflr j jl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llS Al71 00  I 0                                                                                                                           I-W<    i "i C,;_9rL  U   NEf;i    
K                                            -~~~~~~~~~l 
KE-S           j        _-AH X  i
.r~ ~~~~~~~~~ I .:I                                                                                                                                                                 u ;u  ,i :,V-MCS t -'S ; A)L''' X   S   ' '' -' 
,,X,g,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R    .                                                     I      -, I  >,0EAX '
t  03 1, q                   t I_=
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



