Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CR. / CZ-' kSo
Report No. P-4008-WSo
i
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
SDR 2.1 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT BALNK OF WESTERN SAMOA PROJECT
March 28, 1985
This docment his a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrnce of
their official dudes. Its contents may not othenrwise be disclosed withot World Rank athorIation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit a Western Samoa Tala (WS$)
As of September 1984
WS$1.OO              US$0.4722                                  4
US$1.00              WS$2.1179
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 to December 31
DBWS       - October 1 to September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB   -  Asian Development Bank
BWS   -  Bank of Western Samoa
DBWS  -  Development Bank of Western Samoa
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
IDA   -  International Developmene Association
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
NPF   -  National Provident Fund
PCB   -  Pacific Commercial Bank
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
WESTERN SAMOA
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF WESTERN SAMOA PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Suummry
Borrrower:         Independent State of Western Samoa
Beneficiary:       Development Bank of Western Samoa (DBWS)
Amount:            SDR 2.1 milLion (US$2.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms
Co-tender:         The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has lent US$4.0 million
from its Special Fund Resources and made a technical
assistance grant of US$300,000 for this project.
Relending Terms:   The Government of Western Samoa will relend the proceeds of
the proposed Credit and the ADB loan to DBWS at a fixed
interest rate of 6Z for a period of 15 years including
eight years of grace, and bear the exchange risk. DBWS
will onlend the proceeds to its sub-borrowers at the rate
of at least 16Z for industrial loans and 1OZ for
agricultural loans.
Project
Description:     The Droject, cofinanced with ADB, will finance individual
subprojects in the agricultural, industrial and service
sectors. In addition, technical assistance will be pro-
vided to undertake an industrial sector survey, and engage
experts to be employed by DBWS in the field of project
promotion, agricultural credit and accounting and manage-
ment information systems. The cofinancing arrangement will
be agreed with ADB in accordance with a Letter of Credit
Administration under which ADB will be the lead cofinancing
institution and will be primarily responsible for the
supervision of the project.
Benefits:          Over the three year estimated commitment period of the ADB
loan and IDA credit, it is estimated that 1,100 sub-
projects would be financed and that the project would
create significant incremental employment and generate
foreign exchange savings and earnings. The project also
provides for a number of measures designed to support the
Lnstitutional development of DBWS and would also contribute
to an improved policy environment for industrial invest-
ment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
uf their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:             The major risk is that DBWS'm portfolio quality might
deteriorate further affecting its cash flow and financial
condition. However, DBWS has prepared an arrears reduction
program, which has been reviewed by ADS and found satisfac-
tory, and given the proposed strengthening of the institu-
tion-and an expected improving economy, the risk seems
manageable.
Local       Foreixn    Total
C(Uss million)--
Estimated Cost /a
Credit component                                8.51        6.00      14.51
Technical assistance                            0.03        0.31       0.34
Subtotal                                      8.54        6.31      14.85
contingencies                                   0.01        0.04       0.05
Total                                         8.55        6.35      14.90
Financing Plan
IDA Credit                                       -          2.00       2.00
ADS Loan & Grant                                            4.30       4.30
UNDP                                             -          0.05       0.05
Government/DBWS                                 8.55         -         8.55
Total                                         8.55        6.35      14.90
Estimated Disbursements
rDA FY          1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual                                  0.22   0.74    0.62   0.30   0.12
Cumulative                              0.22   0.96    1.58   1.88   2.00
Rate of Return:            NA
Appraisal Report:          Report No. SAM. Ap-14. October 1984, prepared by
Asian Development Bank.
Map:                       No. IBRD 18848
/a Net of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENI
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE INDEPENDENT
STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF WESTERN SAMOA PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
e         credit on standard IDA terms to the Independent State of Western Samoa for the
equivalent of SDR 2.1 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) to help finance the
Development Bank of Western Samoa Project. The project will be cofinanced
with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) as the lead institution; ADB is
providing SDR 4.004 million (about US$4.0 million) from its Special Fund
resources, and a technical assistance grant of US$300,000. The UNDP is
providing a technical assistance grant of US$50,000.
Part I - The Economy
2.        The lasL economic memorandum, "Western Samoa: Development Issues and
Prospects" (No. 2i68a-WSO) was dated December 29, 1978. Since then Bank Staff
have held periodic discussions with the Government on the economy, supervised
a report on the socio-economic situation in Samoa for the Asian-Pacific Round
Table Meeting for the least developed countries (1982), and participated in
IMF missions. The next economic memorandum is planned for FY86. Socio-
economic data is contained in Annex I.
3.        Western Samoa is a small island country in the South Pacific that
has been independent since 1962, following a period as a United Nations trust
territory administered by New Zealand. The country has a population of
159,000, most of which live in the two main islands - Upolu and Savai'i, and a
per capita GNP of US$500 (1983). The population is homogeneous, almost all of
it being of Samoan extraction. The main harbor is in Apia, the capital city
and the only major urban area, which is located on Upolu Island (see Map).
The Islands have a reasonably well developed infrastructure comprised of a
road system to service agriculture and industry, ports and shipping services.
An international airport to be completed in 1985, is expected to contribute to
the growth of trade and tourism in the future.
*          4.        The population's basic needs are reasonably well met.  Subsistence
(nonmonetary) production provides sufficient access to shelter, food and
clothing. Adult Literacy is almost universal. Most children have nine years
of basic education and at least three years of high school education. A good
coverage of health services has been achieved through district hospitals and
village clinics.
5.        Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, is the most important
sector of the economy and accounts for over one half of employment and
domestic output. Close to 90% of total exports are directly or indirectly
based on agriculture. The majority of the population practice subsistence
agriculture, which is estimated to contribute around 40% of GDP.



6.        The manufacturing sector currently accounts Eor only about 7.5S of
GDP and 5% of employment. The most important and successful manufacturing
operation has been the copra crushing mill, which processes nearly all
marketed copra into coconut oil and copra mea! for export. Soap, matches,
beer and cigarettes are also produced in the industrial sector. Tourism,
while being seen as having potential for further development, currently
accounts for a fairly small proportion of GDP.
7.        A special feature of the Samoan economy is emigration.  While it is
a significant source of foreign exchange earnings through remittances, it has
deprived Western Samoa of some of the benefits of investment in education made
by the country. While keeping population growth rates low, emigration has
also adversely affected agricultural productivity by reducing the supply of
labor to the plantation sector.
Recent Economic Performance
8.        The economy experienced difficulties in 1980-1982, showing negative
GDP growth, high inflation (around 20%) and a deteriorating external payments
position. Depressed commodity prices and adverse weather conditions added to
the problems of poor planning and management of the plantation estates and
further weakened the performance of the agriculture sector, the major export
earner. The manufacturing sector also declined because of shortages of both
raw materials and foreign exchange. Deteriorating terms of trade, and excess
monetary creation associated with an ambitious development program caused
severe external payments difficulties. International reserves declined
sharply and external payments arrEars (Largely for petroleum) amounted to
about US$15 million by the end of 1982, equivalent to one year's merchandise
exports. Domestic financial conditions also worsened during 1980-1982.
Government expenditure - to a considerable extent the counterpart for
externally-financed investment - increased at a higher rate than revenue,
resulting in a sizeable budget deficit which was largely financed by domestic
borrowings Erom the banking sector. This was a prime factor in the country's
external balance of payment difficulties.
9.        In order to address some of these problems, in early 1983 the
Government adopted a stabilzation program which was supported by a one-year
standby arrangement with the  iMF.  The adjustment measures have helped to
moderate inflation and have supported a resumption in output growth. In
conjunction with favorable terms of trade and increased external assistance,
the external position improved. The current account deficit declined to 14
percent of GDP in 1983 from 17 percent in 1982, and an overall balance of
payments surplus was recorded for the first time in several years.  ExternaL
payments arrears were reduced to SDR 2.6 million in 1983 from SDR 13 million
in 1982.
10.       The Government continued its adjustment efforts in 1984, supported
by another one-year stand-by arrangement with the Fund. In 1984 the exchange
rate of the tala against the New Zealand dollar was adjusted on three
occasions. These adjustments brought about an 11.7 per cent depreciation in
nominal effective terms which, together with restraining the level of growth
of imports, led to an improved balance of payments position in 1984 (an



- ; -
overall surplus of SDR 4.1 million is estimated for the year). Inflation
slowed to 12 percent in 1984, compared with over 16 percent in the previous
year, reflecting the improved domestic food supply situation, slower increase
in import prices, and continued financiaL restraint.
11.       Despite these positive indicators export volume is estimated to have
declined sharply in 1984 reflecting a drop in coconut oil and cocoa output.
Debt service payments remained high at 61 percent of exports of goods and
services (or 31 percent of exports of goods, services, and private
remittances), in part reflecting the repayment of arrears that had been
incurred during the 1980-82 period. While as a result of these repayments
only a small amount remains in arrears, total outstanding external debt is
estimated at about 80 percent of GDP at end-1984.
Development Issues and Prospects
12.       The performance of the agriculture sector in Western Samoa has been
marred by low productivity, management problems, constraints imposed by land
tenure arrangements, variabLe prices for the major products, inelastic market
demand and labor shortages. Growth in the industrial sector has been con-
strained by the size of the domestic market and the sluggish pace of invest-
ment. Although gross receipts from tourism have been increasing, significant
further investment would be required to upgrade hotel accommodation and
tourist related services, for tourism to play a more significant role in the
economy.
13.       In view of the immediate fiscal and balance of payments difficul-
ties, Government attention has been focussed on implementing macroeconomic
reforms and a stabilization policy with assistance from the IMF. Some
measures to increase productivity and to address key development constraints
have been implemented (like the cocoa replanting program and project assis-
tance to strengthen key agricultural institutions like Western Samoa Trust
Estates Corporation (WSTEC)). Under the new Three Year Plan (1985-87)
prepared by the Government, a more concerted effort is being planned for
reviving plantation output and diversifying and increasing the role of agro-
industries in the economy. With the short term adjustments to problems having
been contained, the Government is in a position to turn its attention to the
critical medium and longer term constraints so as to improve the country's
productive base.
.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMOA
14.       Since Western Samoa became a Bank Group Member in June 1974, three
IDA credits totalling US$14.4 million have been approved (see Annex II for
details). Both the Highway Project in 1975 (Credit No. 535-WSO) and the first
Agricultural Development Project in 1979 (Credit No. 951-WSO) concentrated on
upgrading of the basic road inf-astructure to facilitate agricultural develop-
ment. More recently, the Second Agricultural Development Project (Credit Go.
1080-WSO) approved in 1981, aims at improving agricultural practices of the
smallholder and the performance of the key agricultural institution, WSTEC.



- 4 -
15.       The Bank group lending strategy focuses on increasing the productive
base of the economy through diversifying agriculture, raising productivity,
strengthening key economic inscicutions and, in the Longer term, promoting the
developments of viable agro-based industries. The Association has worked
closely with the IMF and the ADB in pursuing these objectives. IDA staff
provided inputs into a substantive survey of the problems and options in the
agriculture sector funded by the ADB in 1984. In FY85/86 IDA staff will be
commenting on the Government's new Development Plan, participating in further
joint missions with the Fund and assisting the Government examine options for
export diversification and expansion of the country's productive base.
16.       The proposed IDA contribution of US$2.0 million to the Development
Bank of Western Samoa is designed to promote investment in smallholder agri-
culture and agro-based industries, improve the Government's industrial policy
framework and strengthen the management of the key development lending insti-
tution. The project is seen as providing both the opportunity for timely IDA
operational involvement in Western Samoa and further dialogue with Government
on important policy and institutional issues.
Disbursement Performance
17.       Two projects are currently under implesentation in Western Samoa:  a
US$8.0 million credit for Agriculture Development I (approved in 1979) and a
US$2.0 million credit for Agricultural Development I1 Project (approved in
1981), which is co-financed with ADB. Disbursements for both projects lag
considerably behind disbursement estimates due to severe managerial and finan-
cial difficulties of the implementing agency, Western Samoa Trust Estates
Corporation (WSTEC), in the earlier years of project implementation. The Bank
Group has participated in frequent interagency meetings which have helped
WSTEC address its most serious difficulties. Project impljmentation and the
disbursement trend are improving. The disbursement rate - for calendar year
1984 is 52%.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
18.       Recent fiscal measures adopted by the Government particularly
increased interest rates and credit tightening have tended to slow investment
through the banking sector.  The strengthening of Development Bank of Western
Samoa (DBWS) is an important part of the Government strategy to stimulate
investment in the productive sectors of the economy.
The Agricultural Sector
19.       The agricultural sector (including the subsistence sector, forestry
and fishing) is estimated to account for about 60% of CDP, more than half of
1/ The disbursement rate is derived by dividing the actual disbursement
during the fiscal year by the net cumulative undisbursed balance.



the total employed labor and about 90Z of export earnings. The overall
performance of the sector has been mixed in recent years with growth in
production of coconut/copra and in minor and newer crops/products (such as
fruits for processing, fish), and decline in production of cocoa and
bananas. The marketed value of production has also been adversely affected by
recent reductions in international prices.  During 1980-82, the export prices
of the two principal crops, copra and cocoa, declined each year on average by
22Z and 19Z respectively.
20.       The agricultural production base is basically dualistic with a
village (including subsistence) sector and an estate sector (including Western
Samoa Trust Estates Corporation the largest employer in the country and to
which the Association has made two development credits). However, most of the
agricultural and livestock production which originates in village areas, is
for subsistence, and yields are uniformly low. In the past, production
increases were brought about by expansion of the cultivated area, but good
agricultural land, with moderate to high fertility and suitable topography, is
becoming scarce. Thus, further growth in agricultural production will
increasingly depend on investments and increased utilization of inputs to
raise productivity.
21.       The agricultural sector performance and policies revolve around
copra and cocoa. These two products accounted for about 74Z of the total
marketed production of the agricultural sector during the 1979-84 period.
Copra production has been increasing over the past ten years after stagnating
during the 1960s and early 1970s. Production increased by about 401 during
the five years 1979-83 over the preceding ten-year period, although it
declined again in 1984. The Government is attempting, aided by the
Association, to replant senile trees to improve long-term trends. The
marketed production of copra would have been even higher but for the fact that
an estimated 201 of the available nuts are not collected (due mainly to
plantation labor shortages and low prices). While the copra production record
is encouraging, the same cannot be said of cocoa where the production trend
has been down. New plantings and replantings have been below the levels
targeted. Continuing problems include the senescence of coconut and cocoa
trees and inadequate measures to control diseases and pests. Lately, drought
and shortage of planting material have affected the cocoa crop expansion.
22.       Among the relatively minor crops/products, the record has been
*       mixed.  The output of taro, fruits for processing, firewood and fisheries
subsectors has risen rapidly in recent years, albeit from very low levels.
Prospects are that these subsectors will continue to perform well. On the
other hand, banana production and the performance of the livestock subsector
has been disappointing.
23.       The Covernment has initiated a number of programs in recent years to
revitalize the agricultural sector. A "suspensory loan scheme"' for planting
cocoa was launched in 1983, under which 601 of the loan is to be converted
into a grant, provided that a minimum output level is achieved within 5-6
years, the maturity period of cocoa trees. The scheme became operational in
1984 with funding provided through DBWS and is initially expected to finance
cocoa replanting on 350 acres of land. A similar scheme was also being



- 6 -
prepared for replanting coconuts, with the replanting target for 1984 set at
1,550 acres, double the acreage replanted in 1983. This scheme is also
expected to use DBWS as the institutional vehicle. The other principal
measure taken by the Covernment was the introduction of price stabilization
scheme for copra and cocoa in 1982. Under the scheme, a floor price is set
based on an average price over the preceding four years and an estimate for                 0
the current year. This has helped assure the farmers of getting reasonable
prices irrespective of highly volatile international prices. The agriculture
sector survey undertaken by ADB in 1984 identified many other problems and
constraints and made detailed recomendations to overcome them.  These relate
to improving the supply of needed inputs (whether these are fertilizers, agro-
chenicals or outboard motors for fishing vessels), improvements of existing
plantings, supply of planting material and replantings, introduction of new
crops, land use survey, conservation of natural resources and environment,
measures for disease control and plant/animal health, bushfire protection,
processing of meat and fish, marketing of different crops/products, etc. The
report also made detailed recommendations for institutional reforms with a
view to strengthening sector and subsector planning and management.
The Industrial Sector
24.       The industrial sector defined broadly to include construction,
commerce, tourism, transport and storage accounts for about 202 of GDP
(1983). Manufacturing alone accounts for about 7.5Z of CDP but it is a
groving sector; it accounted for only about 3% of CDP in 1979. Most
manufacturing industries are Located in and around Apia.
25.       Principal manufacturing industries comprise processing of the main
agricultural crops for exports and consumer products in the food and other
light industries for the domestic market. The thrust of industrialization is
towards increasing the value added of primary exports and promoting efficient
import substitution. The principal manufacturing units comprise a copra
crushing mill, a veneer plant and a food processing unit, all geared to pro-
ducing for exports. The copra crushing mill was set up in 1982 and has since
resulted in a complete substitution of copra exports by exports of copra
products namely coconut oil and copra meal. Its output is now limited by
coconut supplies. The veneer plant was also set up in 1982 and has reduced
the exports of unprocessed timber. The food processing plant has rapidly
increased its capacity to process tropical fruits, especially passion fruit,
the production of which increased from 200 tons in 1981 to more than 1,000                   6
tons in 1983. Further increase in processing capacity was planned for 1984.
Principal consumer products for domestic consumption are beer and cigareetes
and these reflect almost complete import substitution. Plans for further
growth in manufacturing include, for exports, production of proactivated
carbon from coconut shell, a second plywood factory, dairy processing and
packaging and, for import substitution, corned beef and fish canning.
26.       Segments of industry other than manufacturing are, in general, also
growing but there are specific subsectoral constraints in addition to overaLl
constraints. For example, the development of fisheries and forestry related
industries now depends on completion of major transport projects (Savaii road
project and extension of harbor and wharf facilities). Tourism is constrained



- 7 -
by a limited variety of attractions, poor direct access, and limited flights
and airport facilities. The overall constraints relate to a limited resource
base, small size of domestic market, geographical remoteness from the world
markets and low labor skills.
27.       The Government's industrial incentives system requires improve-
ment. There is an Enterprises Incentive Act, but it was amended in 1983 to
allow for increases in taxes and duties under the stabilization program,
resulting in disincentives for investment. Administrative procedures related
*      to the incentive system are cumbersome.  In addition, industrial development
in the country has reached a point where priority sectors need to be identi-
fied as a basis for future planning. In order to improve the situation, ADB
is providing technical assistance for an Industrial Sector Survey. This study
would recommend ways of improving the existing legislative and LnstitucionaL
framework affecting the promotion of industries in Western Samoa and would
indicate the directions in which promotion of industrial projects should
proceed.
Financial Sector
28.       Institutional Structure.  The institutional structure cf the
financial system in Western Samoa is still evolving and maturing. The Central
Bank of Western Samoa was established only recently, on May 1, 1984, and took
over responsibility for functions that were previously performed by the
Monetary Board. The Central Bank now exercises the functions of issuance of
currency, management of external reserves, control of money supply and setting
of reserve requirements, interest rates and credit ceilings. In the recent
past (1983-84), monetary policies have been guided by the agreements with IMF
under the stabilization programs.
29.       There are two commercial banks in Western Samoa:  the Bank of
Western Samoa (BWS) and the Pacific Com-ercial Bank (PCB). BWS is the single
largest financial institution accounting for 29% of all loans and advances
made by financial institutions in the country. It was set up in 1959 on a
50:50 ownership basis by the Government of Western Samoa and the Bank of New
Zealand. The other cofmnercial bank, PCB, is also a joint venture with Westpac
Banking Corporation, Australia, Bank of Hawaii and National Provident Fund
(NPF) respectively holding 40%, 40Z and 20Z of its equity. The nonbanking
financial institutions include NPF, DBWS, the Post Office Savings Bank, the
Public Trust Office and Western Samoa Life Assurance Corporation.  The NPF
which Lends mainly for housing and to public sector corporations accounts for
20% of the total loans and advances. The DBWS is the third largest financial
institution and accounts for 18% of the total loans and advances.
30.       Interest Rates.  As part of the stabilization program and to
encourage a higher level of savings, interest rates on deposits as well as on
loans were raised in 1983. Commercial bank deposit rates vary between 8% on
savings deposits to 14% on 3-month deposits to 17% on deposits for 12 months
or longer. Government securities (5-year maturity) yield 17.5% anniually.
Commercial bank lending rates range from 13% to 19%. Loans for mnnufacturing,
business and commerce carry interest at rates of 15Z-17.5Z and loans for
agriculture carry rates of 13Z-15%. Interest rates prior to the upward



- 8 -
revision in 1983 were considerably lower. The reason for increasing the rates
in 1983 was not only to curb credit growthi as part of the stabilization pro-
gram, but also to take into account inflation which was running at the rate of
17Z during that year. Progress was made in reducing inflation during 1984 as
the annual rate of inflation fell to 12%. The rate of inflation is expected
to slow further in 1985 because the stabilization programs of IMF of 1983 and
1984 have started showing positive results.
31.       When interest rates were revised upward in 1983, DBWS's rates were
left unchanged at 14Z for industrial loans and 8% for agricultural loans. In
late 1984, DBWS increased its rates to 16Z and 102 respectively, for indus-
trial and agricultural loans. In addition, ADB, the Government and DBWS also
agreed to undertake an annual review of DBWS's interest rates to ensure that
they remain appropriate; any change in DBWS's interest rates also requires
prior consultation with ADB. Similar measures have been agreed between DBWS
and the Association (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The first such review between the Government, ADB and IDA will be
held before December 31, 1985. The review of interest rates will take into
account the actual and expected rate of inflation, the overall structure of
interest rates in the country and DBWS's financial position with a view to
making a judgement on the appropriateness of DBWS's interest rates. IDA staff
is also expected to participate with ADB in project supervision missions.
32.       The ADB has made four previous loans to DBWS and their utilization
has been satisfactory. All loans have been fully committed. In all, ADB
loans financed 2,862 projects by June 30, 1984, of which 83% (by number) were
in the agriculture sector. By amount, the largest beneficiary was the industry
sector (45%) with food, beverage and tobacco being the single largest sub-
sector. An analysis of subprojects exceeding US$10,000 each estimated that
these subloans have created about 2,800 new jobs and foreign exchange
savings/earnings of about US$4.6 million per annum. The proposed credit will
continue the support IDA has provided to agriculture in the past and assist
DBWS for the first time. It would extend IDA operations to the industrial
sector. The proposed project supports DBWS in expanding its lending for the
productive sectors.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
33.       The proposed credit will be the first to Western Samoa since 1981
and the first to the Development Bank of Western Samoa (DBWS). It will be the
second cofinancing operation undertaken in the country between ADB and IDA.
For the South Pacific Island countries, the proposed project will be the
second-ADB led cofinancing operation in the DFC sector (the first being the
Development Bank of the Solomon Islands in 1981). Although this will be IDA's
first project with DBWS, as stated earlier ADB has a weLl-established
relationship with this institution, this being their fifth operation.
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government, ADB and DBWS.
The project was appraised by ADB in July-August 1984 and a loan of US$4.0
million and a technical assistance grant of US$300,000 were approved in



- 9 -
November 1984. IDA was first approached by the ADB in the fall of 1984 and
the Government formally requested the Association to consider the proposed
credit in December 1984. IDA credit negotiations were conducted in the field
from March 4 to 8, 1985, with a Western Samoan delegation led by Mr. Kolone
Vaai, Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance. An appraisal report prepared
bv ADB, No. SAH. Ap-14, dated October 1984 is being circulated separately.
The appraisal report fully justifies the proposed investment. Supplementary
Credit and project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
35.       Project Objectives.  The objectives of the proposed ADB/IDA
co-financed project are to:
(a) finance the foreign exchange costs of relativeLy small development
projects primarily in the industry and the agriculture sectors;
(b) strengthen the institutional capability of DBWS through technical
assistance in the areas of project promotion, agriculture credit
procedures and accounting and management information systems; and
(c) help improve the policy environment for industrial investment
through technical assistance for the preparation of an Industrial
Sector Survey for Western Samoa.
36.       Project Description.  The proposed project has two components:
credit and technical assistance. Under the credit component, together with
the ADB loan of US$4 million, the proposed IDA Credit will be used by DBWS to
make subloans to a large number of beneficiaries. It is estimated that over
the life of the project commitment period, 1985-87, a total of 1,100 loans
would be made. In order to reach a cross section of the economy, ADB has
reached an informal understanding with DBWS that the loan proceeds will be
sectorally allocated as follows: industry, 40Z; agriculture, 40%; group/
village projects, 10%; and services including transportation, 1OZ. Financing
of construction or purchase of homes will be ineligible. Loans to DBWS's
staff and Board members will also be ineligible.
37.       Under the technical assistance component, a consultant will be
provided to the Government to undertake an Industrial Sector Survey, and
experts will be provided to DBWS in the field of agricultural credit, project
promotion and accounting and management information systems (see also
paras. 49-54).
Development Bank of Western Samoa (DBWS)
38.       DBWS was established in 1974 as a wholly government-owned statutory
institution to become the principal institutional vehicle to develop both
agriculture and industry in the country. It serves 80% of the villages in the
country and 30% of all households. Its present paid-in capital is
WS$4.8 million. It has a Board of ten members, of which three represent the
government ministries most concerned with economic development. The Financial
Secretary, Ministery of Finance, is also an ex-officio Director and Chairman



- 10 -
of the Board. To avoid possible conflict of interest, except for the ex-
officio Directors, no member of DBWS's Board will simultaneously sit on the
board of any other bank.
39.       Organization and Management.  DBWS is presently organized on a
functional basis, with five divisions at the Head Office and one brancih.  The
Agricultural and Industrial Loans Divisions are responsible for appraisal and
supervision of loans. The Finance Division handles administration, accounting
and the management information system. The Legal Division is responsible for
security of loans and rehabilitation of problem projects, and the Research and
Development Division for project promotion, market research and training.
DBWS's organization structure is considered appropriate for its present level
of operations and role. However, with a view to heightening its responsive-
ness to the growth and changes in its operations, DBWS has agreed to review
its organizational structure with ADB by June 30, 1985. ADB will be kept
informed of the results of the review and its implementation will be under-
taken in connultation with ADB. Similar measures have been agreed between
DBWS and the Association (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
The chief executive officer has been in his position since 1978 and was
reappointed in August 1984 for a further term of two years. He is competent
and has provided continuity in management. He is assisted by an Assistant
General Manager and a staff totaling 90. Changes at the General Manager and
Assistant General Manager level require prior consultation with ADB. During
1983-84, the Rehabilitation Section (in the Legal Division) was strengthened
as a result of the recommendation made by ADB's appraisal mission for the
fourth loan, to deal with the portfolio problems (paragraph 46). A formal
training program has recently been established which will include courses in
legal, marketing, technical and economic aspects of loan appraisal, financial
analysis and loan disbursement procedures. Substantial opportunities are also
provided for external training. DBWS will be reporting to ADB on the progress
of staff training on an annual basis.
40.       Policies ana Procedures.  The basic document guiding DBWS's opera-
tions is its Policy Statement which may be amended only with prior approval of
ADB. The Statement lays down the criteria for selection of projects, areas of
emphasis and financial guidelines, and is a satisfactory document. Its amend-
ment will require prior approval of the Association (Section 3.01(c) of the
draft Project Agreement). Shorter term focus to the operations has been
provided in the form of a Strategy Statement covering the period 1984-86; it
emphasizes DBWS's promotional activities and efforts to reduce its portfolio
arrears.
41.       DBWS's appraisal standards and loan processing procedures are
generally satisfactory with some identified weak areas for which remedial
action is being taken. One such area is marketing aspects of large agricul-
tural and industrial projects. A marketing expert assigned to DBWS for 1984
and 1985 under the United States Peace Corps assistance is helping to address
this deficiency. In addition, DBWS needs to upgrade and streamline its
appraisal procedures for agricultural lending. The agricultural lending and
processing is generally weak. An Agricultural Credit Specialist financed
under the technical assistance component of the proposed project will address
this area (paragraph 52).



- 11 -
42.       Normal project supervision is the responsibility of the officers who
conduct appraisal. All projects are reviewed at least once a year with more
frequent reviews for problem projects. Problem projects are the responsibiL-
ity of the Rehabilitation Section which initiates legal action where neces-
sary. DBWS's project supervision procedures are generaLly adequate, although
after completion, project site visits have not been made frequently enough.
To help remedy this deficiency, DBWS plans to rely more on Government Agricul-
tural Department extension officers to supervise small agricultural projects
in remote areas. DBWS has also formulated an arrears reduction program to
strengthen its supervision of problem projects. (see paragraph 46).
43.       Operations.  The ma_n activity of DBWS remains the provision of
medium- and long-term loans for development projects in agriculture, industry
(including services) and infrastru_ture (including group/village projects).
Its loan operations include medium- and long-term assistance to farmers under
various Government programs for specific crops such as cocoa and passion
fruit. Although it is empowered to extend working capital loans and accept
deposits, DBWS has not yet been engaged in these activities. Up to June 30,
1984, DBWS had made only two small equity investments, but it plans to
increase its involvement in this activity gradually.
44.       DBWS's level of loan operations remained flat during FY1981-82, but
increased sharply in FY83-84 due to improved economic conditions and export
prices of commodities.  Loan approvals amounted to WS$3.3 million for 2,590
projects in FY81, WS$3.4 million for 1,510 projects in FY82, but jumped to
WS$6.7 million for 2,100 projects in FY83. For the first half of FY84, loan
approvals amou.nted to WS$4.6 million for 1,370 projects. Agriculture
accounted for 56% of the total amount and 98% of the number of loans made
during this period. Of the agricultural loan approvals, the largest amount
went to mixed farming, followed by taro, plantation vehicles and passion
fruit. A noticeable trend is toward larger agricultural loans. rndustrial
sector loans are gaining in relative importance, having increased from
WS$0.7 million in FY81 to WS$2.8 million in FY83 and further to WS$1.5 million
during the first half of FY84. Services and food processing enterprises
accounted for 50% of industrial loans, followed by manufacturing, engineering
and printing and publishing. Loans for group/village projects accounted for
about 8Z of total approvals. The average size of all loans has been increas-
ing. No loans below WS$500 were made in the first half of FY84; such loans
accounted for 68% of all loans in FY81. Such small loans are now increasingly
being made by local credit unions.  DBWS played a key role in establishing 18
credit unions up to June 30, 1984, and 11 more were ir the process of being
set up as of that date. The average maturity of all loans increased from 3.3
years in FY81 to 4.2 years in FY83 and is in line with the shift from smaller
to larger loans. Geographically, there is a concentration of DBWS's opera-
tions in the island of Upolu which is the center of population and
infrastructure.
45.       Financial Performance and Condition.  Although the gross margin on
lending operations has been about 5%, DBWS has been only marginalLy profit-
able. This is because of high operating expenses which have averaged more
than 7% of average portfolio during the past four years. There are two
principal reasons for the high operating expenses. First, DBWS needs a large



- 12 -
3taff relative to the size of the portfolio because of the nature of opera-
tions and the peculiarities of the country and economy. A majority of opera-
tions are in the agricultural sector and characterized by a large number of
small loans. Processing of loans and their subsequent supervision is
expensive because the borrowers are not only small but also geographically
very dispersed.  DBWS is now trying to increase its average loan size and
discontinue making very small loans (paragraph 44). This trend shiala reduce
the operating costs relative to the size of the portfolio. Secondly,
operating expenses are high because of the need to make relatively high pro-
visions for doubtful accounts. In fact the provision for the year ended
September 30, 1984 was so high as to result in an actual operating loss. The
recent increase in DBWS's lending rates by 2 percentage points, would increase
its gross margin and help improve profitability.
46.       DBWS's arrears situation is serious and has deteriorated in the last
three years. Loans in arrears as of September 30, 1983 amounted to 26% of
total loans in repayment stage and loans affected by arrears amounted to 56%
of total portfolio in the repayment stage. The collection ratio aLso declined
to less than 50% for the FY83. Agricultural loans accounted for 69% of total
arrears by amount and 93% by number. Small agricultural loans (i.e. loans of
up to WS$500 each) alone accounted for 70% of all loans in arrears (by
number). One of the principal reasons for high arrears is the practical
problem of administering a large number of very small loans. The severe
economic recession of 1981-83 also adversely affected the arrears situation.
Other factors for the high arrears include the lengthy legal procedures in
loan recovery, lack of sufficiently intensive follow-up by loan officers and
deficient agricultural loan appraisals. Considering the seriousness of the
arrears situation, ADB asked DBWS to prepare a detailed action program for
their reduction, and made its approval a condition of effectiveness of its
loan. The arrears reduction program was received by ADB in January 1985 and
has since been approved by it. It was prepared initially by a three-member
sub-committee of the Board of Directors. The target of the Arrears Reduction
Plan is to reduce total arrears to 10% of the portfolio by amount and 40% by
number by the end of the year ending September 30, 1986. The targets are
considered realistic. The main thrust of the Plan is a significant
intensification of the supervision and collection effort in a systematic
manner. The principal elements of the Plan are: (i) an initial review to
categorize all accounts in arrears in terms of intensity of effort needed in
follow up; (ii) assignment of amounts in arrears to individual loan officers
with specific targets; (iii) institution of a systematic supervision process
whereby all accounts in arrears will be reviewed at least once every quarter;
(iv) greater involvement of village chiefs in the collection effort to bring
social pressure on the defaulters; (v) intensification of staff training to
improve efficiency and effectiveness; (vi) more active involvement in
restructuring of projects in difficulties, particularly by arranging training
courses for small businesses (assistance is being sought from the Government
of Australia and New Zealand in this regard); (vii) computerization of records
for more accurate and timely production of data; (viii) strengthening of the
Rehabilitation Division; and (ix) an effort to transfe- the small loan
operations to local level institutions, particularly to credit unions and
cooperatives. As stated earlier (paragraph 44), DBWS has practically stopped
making loans of under WS$500 each and this should gradually improve the



- 13 -
quality of portfolio as existing loans under WS$500 are collected. DBWS is
also seeking close cooperation with Government Agricultural Department
extension officers in supervising agricultural loans. The Agricultural Credit
Specialist (paragraph 52) to be recruited under the technical assistance
component of the project should help improve the overall appraisal and
supervision of agricultural projects which should gradually have a positive
impact on the loan portfolio.
47.       DBWS has conservative capitalization and a comfortable liquidity
*       position.  The debt:equity ratio has not exceeded 2.2:1 in any of the last
four years.  However, as of September 30, 1984 because of the need to make
large provisions for doubtful loans resulting in a net Loss, the long-term
debt to equity ratio marginally exceeded the maximum limit of 3:1 (it was
3.06:1). The Government is committed to provide WS$1.5 million to DBWS during
1985-86 in the form of paid up capitaL or soft loans; this would bring the
debt: equity -atio again well within the maximum limit. Current ratio and
debt service ratio have been satisfactory.
48.       Projected Operations and Financial Condition.  DBWS has projected
total loan approvals of WS$30.8 million over the three-year period FY85-87,
indicating an average increase of about llX per annum which is reasonable
considering the overall capital outlays in the country, and within the insti-
tutional capability of DBWS. Of the total approvals, WSS18.5 million are
expected to be in domestic currency and the remaining, WS$12.3 million in
foreign exchange. DBWS estimates that about half of the total loan approvals
will be for agricultural projects followed by industry (36Z), group/village
projects (7O) and other projects. Only the foreign exchange component of the
total loan approvals will be financed from the proceeds of the ADB loan and
the proposed IDA Credit. The domestic currency resource requirements will be
met by a further increase in share capital, borrowings from the Government and
internal cash generations inc-nding loan collections. The operational per-
formance of DBWS is estimated to improve from the very marginal levels of the
past three years because of the recent increase in interest rates and improved
operating efficiencies. The return on equity is estimated to increase from
the average of about 1% in FY81-83 period to about 5% in FY85-87 period. Its
financial condition as measured by debt:equity ratio (no more than 2.4:1),
liquidity ratio (current ratio of 10.0) and debt service (more than 3 times)
is expected to remain sound. The maximum debt:equity ratio limit will be 3:1
and the minimum debt service ratio Limit will be 1.25:1 (Section 3.06 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance
49.       Under the previous technical assistance grants made by ADB to DBWS,
the aim was to provide basic institution building and management in its ini-
tial stages. While DBWS's management is now entirely local, it is considered
that it still requires further technical assistance to upgrade specific
institutional aspects. Accordingly, agreement has been reached between the
Government, DBWS and ADB to provide advisory and operational technical assist-
ance to undertake an industrial sector survey for the country and to upgrade
DBWS's capabilities in project promotion, agricultural credit processing and
accounting and management information system.



- 14 -
50.       The aim of the industrial sector survey will be to recommend
improvements in the existing legislative and institutional framework affecting
the promotion of industries in the country and also to indicate the directions
in which new industrial investment should proceed. It is expected that the
proposed industrial sector survey will identify the priority sectors/
subsectors for new investments. Three man-months of an internationaLly
recruited industrial economist will be required to undertake the survey. This
part of the technical assistance program will be implemented by the
Government; the other parts discussed below will be implemented by DBWS.
51.       DBWS has a Research and Development bivision (R&D) which undertakes
some promotional work, in addition to its other functions. The Government has
decided to promote export and import substituticn industries, particularly in
the area of food processing, in order to increase tue country's self-reliance,
and envisages a pivotal role for DBWS in this endeavor. The aim of the
Project Promotion Expert will be to assist DBWS and local entrepreneurs to
promote the investment project opportunities identified in the industrial
sector survey. He will also train DBWS staff in this regard. The Project
Promotion Expert will be recruited for a period of nine months.
52.       The remaining elements of the technical assistance package are six
man-months of an Agricultural Credit Specialist and six man-months of a
Financial Accounting Expert. The need for the Agricultural Credit Expert was
identlZied in the Agricultural Sector Survey undertaken earlier in 1984 by
ADB. DBWS needs to improve its appraisal and supervision of agricultural
projects and make them more cost-effective given the fact that such projects
are relatively small in amounts and geographically widely dispersed. An
Agricultural Credit Specialist will help DBWS in preparing and implementing
improved strategies for its lending to the agricultural sector, streamlining
its loan approval procedures and advising DBWS on further assistance to credit
unions.
53.       The Financial Accounting Expert, who will be knowledgeable in
electronic data processing, will be responsible for improving the financial
accounting and management information systems, with emphasis on producing the
needed data and reports in more timely fashion.
54.       All components of the technical assistance program, except the proj-
ect promotion assistance, will begin simultaneously in the first half of
1985. The terms of reference of all the experts have been agreed with ADB.
The industrial sector survey report will be submitted in draft to the
Government and ADB and will be discussed at a tripartite meeting before it is
finalized. The Project Promotion Expert's assignment will start after the
industrial sector survey has been completed.  All experts will be required to
submit their reports in draft one month before their respective assignments
are completed.
The Project Cost
55.       Total project cost is estimated to amount to US$14.9 million equiva-
lent, of which the foreign exchange cost will amount to about US$6.4 million
equivalent, or about 42% of the total cost. The credit component of the total



- 15 -
cost, US$14.5 million equivaLent, represents the subloans to be made by DBWS
during FY85-87. The foreign exchange component in the cost of subprojects is
estimated to be about 40%, and wiLl be met by the ADB Loan of US$4 million and
the proposed IDA credit of US$2 million. The technicaL assistance cost will
mostly be in foreign exchange representing the cost of expatriate advisors;
the domestic currency component will be about 10%. The total technical assis-
tance cost amounting to US$390,000 will be met by US$300,000 grant from ADB
and US$50,000 grant from UNDP and US$40,000 equivalent in local currency by
the Government/DBWS.  The domestic currency cost of the credit component will
be met by borrowings from the Covernment and by DBWS's internal cash genera-
tion. In the case of the technical assistance cost component, an amount equal
to 15% of the total cost of this component (both for foreign as well as
domestic costs) has been provided as price contingency allowance; physical
contingencies are not applicable.
56.       Relending Terms.  The ADB loan of US$4 million from its Special
Funds Resources has been made to the Government. The proposed IDA credit of
US$2 million will also be made to the Government on standard terms. The
proceeds of the ADB loan and the proposed IDA credit will be relent to DBWS at
6Z p.a., the same as for the previous ADB loans. The amortization period will
also be the same as for the ADB loan i.e. 15 years incLuding a grace period of
8 years. The relatively long grace period will help DBWS by providing second-
generation revolving funds. The technical assistance cost will be funded on a
grant basis. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government except
that it may be passed on to the subborrower in the case of a suvloan exceeding
US$200,000 or a subproject in which there is a substantial foreign investment
(Section 4.01(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       DBWS is presently charging interest at the rate of 8Z for agricul-
tural loans and 14% for industrial loans. According to the agreement reached
with ADB these rates have been raised to 10% and 16%, respectiveLy. The
interest rate is now positive in real terms given the current inflation rate
of 12%, but the interest rate for agriculture loans is somewhat negative.
However, the inflation rate is expected to decline further in the future to
below 1OZ. DBWS's interest rates will be reviewed annually to make sure that
they remain appropriate (see also paragraph 31). The amortization period will
be determined by DBWS on the basis of each subproject's estimated cash flow
but will not exceed 15 years; the grace period would not exceed 3 years but
could be extended up to 5 years for loans for cocoa, coffee, coconut and
cattle.
58.       The "free limit" will be US$50,000 the same as urnder the ADB fourth
loan (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In order to
safeguard against the possibility of the ADB loan and IDA credit being used up
on a few large projects, DBWS has agreed to use at least 60% of the loan and
proposed credit amount to make subloans not exceeding US$0.2 million equiva-
lent each. In addition, the maximum size of a subloan will be limited to
US$0.4 million equivalent (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       Procurement.  Given the nature and size of subprojects, inter-
national competitive bidding is nor considered appropriate. The individual
contracts are very small and procured over time and borrowers normally seek



- 16 -
price quotations from a limited number of local suppliers. DBWS ensures that
the goods and services are procured by its subborrowers at a rea:.onable price,
account being also taken of the relevant factors such as time of delivery,
efficiency and reliability of the goods, and availability and maintenance of
spare parts. DBWS is required to certify that the subborrowers demonstrate
that the procurement procedures adopted by them are appropriate in the
circumstances.  All Bank members will be eligible to compete for goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
60.       Disbursements.  Disbursements of the proposed IDA credit will be
handled by ADJB in accordance with the arrangements for cofinanced projects.
Funds will be disbursed for each subproject from the ADB loan and the proposed
IDA credit on a pari-passu (2:1) basis. Disbursements will be made on the
basis of 100% for items directly imported. In addition, disbursements will be
made to the extent of 75% of the cost of off-the-shelf purchases of machinery
and equipment where procurements are less than US$50,000 and where the foreign
exchange cost cannot be precisely determined; 60% of construction cost and 60%
of input material cost during preproduction period for long-term tree crop
development projects. The ADB loan and the proposed IDA credit are expected
to be fully committed in three years. IDA credit disbursements have been
estimated on the basis of standard disbursement profile for Bank loans in the
East Asia and Pacific Region for DFC projects, indicating a full disbursement
period of five years.
61.       Audit.  The DBWS Act requires the accounts of DBWS to be audited by
the Controller and Chief Auditor of Western Samoa. DBWS is required to submit
annually to the Minister of Finance a copy of its audited annual accounts and
a report on its operations for the year. DBWS's accounts and financial
statements will be audited annually in accordance with sound auditing
standards by an independent external auditor acceptable to the Association.
Apart from the statutory annual audit, the auditors will also be required to
submit a long-form audit report. The audit report will be required to be
submitted within four months of the close of DBWS's financial year (Section
3.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
62.       Until FY1982, the audit reports were unqualified.  In FY1983, the
audit report was qualified in respect of the adequacy of provisions for
doubtful debts due to insufficient analysis by DBWS of loans under
WS$l0,000. The auditors insisted that DBWS undertake an account-by-account
analysis of all loans as was also required according to their agreement with
ADB. Given the progress made by DBWS in undertaking such an analysis and the
extent of provisions actually made, the auditors have removed the
qualification and the audit report on 1984 accounts is unqualified.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       Benefits.  DBWS is one of the principal institutional vehicles for
agricultural and industrial development, the two key productive sectors.
Providing financial resources to DBWS and strengthening its institutional
capacity will have a direct positive impact on the most important sectors of
the country. The impact should be widespread because a high proportion of the
beneficiaries are expected to be smalL farmers and entrepreneurs. The indus-



- 17 -
trial sector survey is expected to lead to better investment promotion
procedures and investment opportunities. As a result, the scarce capital
resources will be more efficiently invested. More directly related to the
proposed project would be foreign exchange savings/earnings and new employ-
ment. It is estimated that the project would, when implemented, save/earn
foreign exchange totalling US$2.5 million annually. Total investment as a
result of the implementation of the project is estimated at US$13.5 million
equivalent. rt is also estimated that at least 1,000 new jobs would be
created. In addition, the technical assistance to be provided to DBWS is
expected to result in significant improvement in its operating efficiency and
resource allocation.
64.       There are two major risks.  First, should DBWS's arrears situation
deteriorate, its financial condition and cash flows would be adversely
affected. ADB was fully aware of the seriousness of this aspect and insisted
that a detailed arrears reduction plan be submitted and agreed before the
fifth loan could be declared effective. This has been complied with and it .s
expected that there would be a gradual improvement in the quality of DBWS's
portfolio. The second risk is that the DBWS's interest charges could become
substantially negative if inflation flares up in 1985-86, leading to possible
misuse of funds borrowed from it. The IMF and the Bank both expect the
inflationary situation to improve; in any case, the Government and DBWS have
agreed to review the interest rate structure at least once a year (the first
such review to be held before the end of 1985) with a view to judging their
appropriateness.
Part V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Independent state
of Western Samoa and the Association, the draft Project Agreement betweent the
Association and DBWS and the Recommendation provided for in Article V, S-action
l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of effectivenebe
are that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB loan have
been fulfilled and that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and DBWS has been executed.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
Part VI - RECOMtENDATION
67.       1 recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 28, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
SAMA                   - SOCIAL iNDICAOS DATA SURT
ASAiD                                REFEBNCE CRos (WEIHTE AVERAGES) la
MOST                (MM  RECENT 9ESTITE) lh
RECENT       MIDDLE INcaOE          KIDDLE INCINIE
1960n !    197t    ESTuMAu    b    Asu A  PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA 4 CAR
-n" (          D1 m  UQ. -)
TOTAL                                 Z.9        2.9         2.9
ACRICULTURAL                          1.L         1.2        1.2
F "a cF A  (U$                            .. S)             500.0              1091.2                   2106.6
musT cosoWTXS mu ciar
(KILaCAES OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         54.0       82.0       231.0             567.3                    "5.5
vno,LTIOu -  VITL STATTESm
POPULATIONM.ID-YEAR (THOUSNDSR       LO.O     142.0       159.0
URBAN POPULATION CZ oF TOT"L)        18.9       20.3        24.0              36.7                     66.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                             0.2
STATIONARY POPUIATLON (HULL)                               0.5
POPULATION IIMENIU                                         1.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Ut.                        38.5       49.7        54.9             261.9                     35.7
PEE Sq. Ot. ACRI. LAND            103.8       123.5      127.6            1735.1                     92.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCrURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                          48.0       47.4        45.0              39.0                     39.9
15-64 YRS                         48.9        49.9        52.1             57.6                      56.0
65 AND ABOE                         3.1         2.7        3.6               3.3                      4u
POPULATION CROWrH RATE (2)
TOTAL                               2.9         2.6        0.9               2.3                      2.4
URBN                                6.8         3.3        2.4               4.3                      3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUS)                                34.3              30.1                     31.3
CUIMD  DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          ..          -         7.7               9.5                      8.1
GOSS REPRODUCTION RATE                .         3.3         1.7               2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL CTHOUS)
USERS (: OF HARRIED WMEN)             .          .                          52.7                     40_3
FOOD AND MUrEIT
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPtTA
(1969-71-100)                           .       95.0        8B.o /c          123.0                    114.3
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)       81.0       8.0         86.0             114.4                    110.6
PRMTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           51.0       53.0        50.0              57.0                     67.3
OF UIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        25.0        25.0       22.0 Ic           14.1                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE           0.9        3.6         0.5               7.2                      s.7
LIFE CJECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           ..        61.0       64.9              60.4                     64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TOUS)         19.0       47.5        13.0             66.3                      bO.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                -         17.0       43.0 /d           37.0                     65.4
URBAN                                         86.0       1oD.o 7d           54.8                     78.1
RURAL                                 .          ..       23.0 /d           26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 .        84.0       99.0 /d           41.3                     52.9
V                           URBAN                                .        100.0       IOD.O Td          47.4                     67.0
RURAL                                '         80.0       99.07d            33.3                     24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2240.0     2840.0      2790.0            7749.4                   1917;7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             440.0       580.0      440.0            2460.4                    815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             200.0       220.0      230.0 Ie         1044.2                    367.2
URBAN                              70.0       100.0      iio.o7r           651.2                    411-5
RURAL                             330.0       320.0      33D.0 W          2594.6                   2636.3
AISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..       21.6        15.8 Ic          27.0                      27.3
ImnW
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.8
URBAN                                ..        6.5
RURAL                                .          5.6
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                           1.5
URBAN                                           1.4
RURAL                                ..         1.6
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DNEIJINGS)
TOTAL                                ,,        18.8
URBIAN                               .        65.8
RURAL                               8. .7



- 20 -
ANNEX I
sessLI U                                           Page 2 of A
aCE!                 (NOA lNOW
ucus    ewams                              w 
1isiL       97i@      UssNULik    ANA & PACZfC                IA?. UZU  4 CO
lUSAM
AUITED KhROLUNgXt RAT
NLAI    TOMAL                      121.0         91.0          ..              102.0                     105.
u                       115.0        94.0           ..             103.9                      101.3
r31A1                   127.0        11.0            -9.2                                     104. 5
SIcoDvYi TOTAL                      10.0         30            ,.             4*.0                        43.2
UAL9                     12.0         36.0          *-               6.7                       42.3
FiALE                     5.0        42.0           ..              43.1                       44.5
VOCATZOIUL (I Of 30MDAT)                 ..         1.3         1.3               17.5                      33.0
P9PIL-U&kCR PATIO
131IUIY                             34.0        2D.0         23.0               31.1                      30.1
siCOIIaiT                           20.0         22.0          ..               23.5                      1.1
ADULT LnimU      RATE CZ)               ..         *7.           ..              72.9                       79.5
PAEGEO   CAU/TKOVIAID POP              5.0 /t       6.5         9.1 /             10.I                      44.0
RADO RZZIVU/TmUoISAD POP              27.3 -      344:.3      19.7               132.                      225.6
TV 1VU1ZVlS/UOUAIID POP                  ..         0.7        14.0               50.1                     107.2
NEaPM  ("flI!UNEl
INTEREST') CRlDtATION
M   TIIUAD PIONUTI                     ..          ..          ..               53.9                      63.5
CDIDUH ANNUAL ATTUDAJNCE/CAITA         2.6 LL       3.3         3.2 lb            3.4                        2.6
LABRK FORCE
TOTAL LUOR FO     (TtHOUS)            25.0         37.0        35.0 /I
rpXm  (PERCET)                         ..        14.1        1t.7[              33.5                      23.2
AGIUCULTURE tPERCCNT)               69.0         66.9        61.1               52.2                      31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCNT)                                 7.2         7.9 7r            17.9                      23.9
PARTICIPATI  RTE UZ (PECE)
TOTAL                                25.2        25.a        25.2 /I            36.7                      32.2
MAL*                                   ..        42.9        40.3 75            50.9                      49.3
FEMALE                                 ..         7.6         8.7 7T            26.6                      15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              2.0          1.8         1.6 /i            1.1                        1.4
PERCENT Or PRIVATE INCXIE
REEVD B
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..          ..2 2.2
RICHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..          .. .6.0
L.EOST 20S  OF HOUEHOLDS              ..          ..           ..               6. 
LOVEST 40s0 o  HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..          ..              15.5
ESTIMATED ABSOLUITE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..          ..              188.6                      28.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..          ..              152.0                     184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..          ..              177.9                     522.8
RWURL                                  ..          ..          ..      .      .... . .164.6              372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BEM ABSOLUTE
POVERTI INCOKE LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                 ..           ..          ..               23..
AURAL                                 ..           ..          ..              37.7
MOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
la   The group averagea for each Indfcator are population-waigh-vd arithmtic meane.  Coverage of countrles among the
indicacors depe" D on avlabLUty of date and Is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 1960. refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dta for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for MEat Retent Estimate' betwen 1980 and 1962.
/c 1977; /d 1975; /I 1978; /f 1963; /L 1962; lh 1979; IL 1976.
JUNE* 1984



- 21-                                                             ANNUI
bra-.  titlsal. .ia  ata    d*  ~  aa.  nIh        sriloItli  ml     Cial. aie[mitaa     ',F. .-                  ~.   b    a        age    3   of   4
I L:                              ~~~~~~~~Ii. -t   raiils   -ad .libt.                                           tatl I-awhti.ati
aamar.iat.i.aa   il.  ac    ::F A =a d.5  d.Iiaiiae  a1 caL.e. .aa  hy dilaa   ace:ri.  I. lilacals is. data.  bi            aaa.   .aa.bia..  nla  C.
ds..rib. ar.   ,meei.ti..             .  .aa  .    krcars   aiaasm di  Wa...   it.  ...tle
lb! ra.iat  Ireap  .la Ill It. -- .tani         .-plo.,lbat w...  woolty? aS lil  *Oomv am"5 .i L. ....tS  tilt.  atwa.  i-.i  LOi. lb- ia-try araap*i  t1.
Ie.ja   anall. (aaa.lP Fa  U119hIb .a    ailta .ar  at-.p... .        MwiMi. looa- bail. UriS.   d Miiit. bat' I. a....l bans.r at.aar.or aa             ola-.i Lai
g1rip has. is.  . lb. IaII   sa.   ia   t. .a.aa    .1  paaairia  ana Iflb-                  --iata    wd r-  lb% aaalbLit aoo  dat  . -. I. a 1s I i ara  citlas -Lr: be
alit..    qt..o I                            ill                                                                           ;   dt.iSd by w     ab. IN   poltsatii
ta. .talta. wa-tan., a.k.l cat blIrba tan.,aria  ii. Fat cat=lila  ..s .iagoaaaliistlaa
lila .5.1 list data.  ~ ~ ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         S.            M .       artt 41.6.  b - Pltaitai  lanai..
F  -W t-P-1111 -1 P.,olow-Ill                                                 I.Coolt ~~imo..      tar-itat tad.
all, Mli       oei.dhv     P.  -P.raseta.  aa  alkAtas110.4  ba.)                                ahbltaia  ..la.           Madpla.ia an ..l owiif-.ta- p..a.t 1.1.1_
aogS, lilt. -.d iii dat..                                                                      by al-Ita   a  phyal-is.  ItAaabii.ba.a Prcidllsa Prla1paily watadilaL
oal  a   an  icalad. brai lbapita.W. h-.n. i_ata   balit as
remI  @iU LOt  a  C!          - 1.1 arratall..ala   Mt c-trIa1 asr lorn.  ooa r.ol.a.-Lr ataFlad ba ibrallals  it.. by a asta.t
prisly a.tirla.s  as    pit, yarai.k. 11.1.  in   s byrr.  ttisr      saiaaf.  =ra. S&itif. at.il tlI.t ltr                     --paia lacaai..l as
as   altls  alcIralrI  a L lsra. -al aqilasa  pa  acitl aa.P-aId. a laaaaad r-W  at aadta   Fsaliaa-a
ill0, aS  1911 de.a.                                                                        &1flI5ff.mLnfltl               - fatal insr at chisaicc  t. -daa..'aw-
lriaPaaaaita V      n-ateI a-al    -  &ai ar arha a IWa lt I-pa.tata. -1                                abdaalt  1aarwrias...aaa.tI.   si
at. .1 arl.L.-Ip.141i                                                                                                             s.1 q.t.
taaartaa  li.   ~   lan-r aFat  -aay,ahttlrI .1 dala                         as tin  asi  s.at-  A bt.adr   1- tad.  -q   - aF  bat 1.at.da   a
is  a..: i                   1-ic.      111                         4it.lovolbidtt  attLitatia  pe- -.w...                                  -
P.- Ca.l ta .tla I        Ir-rtn  at.M b.s h-  11                                              r        -  .ii.1raaas.a-.tar.. 
::.I. ___________             -I rnAl. palran  i,.   aI, ca t1aaatittd  n.aP-.
analratialit  ~t  g  a r-I.  a.'tl:     .latya    Iatila                            iaair. I       apari.btioacaa   npiaa   a.aana
rat...ft.jat iat  aralt..tt  kalail  ri    totLa.-alIt.                             .a.ataaa  pata
ar.its dal..a a.la llth r,rtaL    -inras   ia.  .5   b la t ial
rt t .a at raIit L.=   Fai ... p I aatt  rtttl  al.
rPlq -  Ia. a . al.ia   a- as aa-apatttlt a.,lilaita4tiaa..I   omai     e.   el ,a    at
ranbaa ate aba cI ar a I.ag parIad,  w-a.atlt11 Lif.tlIrv                                    ntal..   Sallqa  aiibwraa  ieal -tpatftfa  a  tncia
raaa  baa1- =          1 aa.taat    ais-I   latnaia-  ta-i                                   raiaa   aanial  paplclaa-  a           ltv ia-ad.. thlina  ww bt
r=raacis raial .  ia a-h a  a ai.I.  tio                  a.  taaaaaa                        I-ar  bat ad.ad   tatf dtilbr.    tZia.a. at1 Itiay   haIn    a
-1 sq.l a. i.- daca  rat.,t    .ir... .             1  .-  .. a. as th                       aairc   tl aa-ta   itat.ani  - t I tSi  Pt
Stnaa    ta. Ia an. lTa. *ah..s.rI_      t~a   la   nntaa    tb                              tl.   -a  maila at bat. ar ata  it.  fit.t.La  sabal 
am   a   i. t  at,I I. a  iai..a  tnit   lra    rc.1    r-ar _larntt.t.aaa    ra.-I.a. Oi Iaa.1 lod: "ai ; atapetd   lsa".alt
tacaatia  *ata -  . Lb  -aaaa  tar pal.atngcatiiraIi                                     praadaa  anral. ittutint. a. laabt traisi  L-.. .tlaaI
taLa.a.   b  nraan-lalitlli-a1aaaba; ltat                                          VWdi    .atlr at it - t 1 ri-n  at aW  arlaiattt. 
f. a  tt  ito. anntdtta    r .    raa-*Ad .aliw.  lb-                                   a IaFti aattsd.
cItia ..    iaa....ai.tr.paaal   ai.  ett  la                                              ita-ilpca tiitt  id-tia. ar altbar,aaarn ah pr.
aaar . ll  data.                                                                                                      -1aliattnt    ala,   sarsr  - T"at ailciat aaraiil  I.
'aratatin ta.tattr                                                     prta~~~~~~~ as aaeaadattP.     d.n.tildal by atat  at tas .    Ia l
nar s- h. .aia.ltaal l5 -ta.aala  n aa-a Itt al.rraLa                             ant. at       ata-t-salt paraIII      ass it' taaia as a.ar.
p..ltu.i.  Mas  Si i.t"...-A- "-                                                                                                        t
*4 s lowsrai.4 it   i        scsi-trr.aaa   I-fa                                     ta.ata.rCar"sartt.aaiai aa.taaiaa)   d-Paair cWAn- aWnl    -a
talpalalll. ta  lila-ia. l-n,ad1170-41.b.  .ban                                                           a.    .ad aaasi - All Ipnn  at acaaat   itrail.
talat.  1.k U   aa iC rai-  L.r .s                               .1o- haal  rahrta   t  r..t.adn'.a.ara  pal-l  ps  a--- - .  lr.icln ooqpI d
Cr.-at   a-(.  laa.d   J- aai ta idn.ra-bsti. lda.a-  C. Sa;  n  t.. Ar ta-aca ps.Wa- TV                                                      bt.f twarstt  t.1
I-ar pavalaalna laisI. titt. as  'ii dais,                           natarlia1 abiat.   d  Ita--sela...W                            '
Cr5.laal br  Ira  ttaani  -  anaidaiL.-trtbna  atl ma-1sar                          L. toi-a Cat rta.s p      araan      T   at  IV         rbaaatI
lisa.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pablti.ii. daaaa  prIartity at--adla  ooan!   _.  LaIt    i.iara
ptIw  s.                                                                                      taikit a4eld1  itr   it .       &.-tL C-a sana. aio-ati.
Phii-basla    a ata  faaat    n    aii-i   it-asr. tar a                                      -beta . -...t-ttsadt-r cl.acrayr.,1a5.   a.
taaattlaa         I taea fltraa I ar.ard tat asba ag -Irara                              t    atna raw..    w.a    i.rtda    ara,e5s~ar.aa
thin tar Mtt.llli~~~~~~~i                                          asaranbiat iiltl. ti~~~~bLl -d till hia-.   t      I-. t.              .
ta  Cn.   i.itttll  -t               r.a w- I cat'                       !m kr                 - taat tab, lat -    la-nac, at lati  tab  tat..
taal  aaanl  -al  asndll.  radtrr. aataaas-a  n                     n atjn.5            2- Lb. ia_. I. laIs.  Iarsat-. haWia  a
ta    s           tilc Apair hbul.,    tsaita  in           rlaa  gas. i..s.                 taa-al e  paracss  it  ata.l lat  taint W I,ily as list9 data
bad - nLIt..    Pesa  walta  Prira -Iat..t 1"l-t, till, a-d tll                              ni tlot dna
d.tc..rrllia   aaItaa   testt-..Itl.   amaia- rita"tnat-
t.tsriaaatat atrla  iartatat aairaaeial-  aartl  Ira                           .ctty  ac  an....an.ta - 1- =et   l,astt   ..  lt.  -
aaaflnatciatat atI-d .1lt.  arltkt  Iaant" par -tii  pa.                        paaanattet  aria as tat. rrLaI-a .a ati aW  inpat2ialf
day -Lailbta aapma.lt-    ra  inst1-       ad- riat  lytta. %_n                           til, tim, as tilt dna. V-a  ar   ea   .tt                  S a ped.l    rat.
-aan.asrbaaaa ta. -   aalnaci.haanttad  aaa.ritlia    aaa   arraa.1a.                                                   ala.  s  ca  inias 
qasatlltaa..d  . ta   r.ataa-.... at.t   -atLt.aIa.  tapIrt. ta.r.nFlacpc an ten inset-a-na.
a-l  al ataaat  i  t b- n-..ttati a-a  a   ata                                      raamt ncan-al  -biaa  aplit.i..   I  stIa   stt
C>                                  as ara dlsrtlhattaa~~~~1-1   at1-5 laatar... as altaa.c Ia,parata  I.r.a.
ar-a r"ltat. ataiab1 i.-.  abnld ha aa-Ia  r-ta .   Itc                                  intil  raaRT Clat
alsdara a.   nt  in  bac  a  11 ira  at -aIi P-t.al  a-i 21 u-                     lb. ialat aiaantr    .  iraa a  naar                        Pt --alt   asia.. .
is                                 al~~~~~~~~. aiaaa  rtai       ns   a   t   ad   aaaa  .tii   t                                t.l        sa,.5ai   aldarbatala
r-   it - ca.a  nl UPIt.a a%-t.1. as   I"t.a-tttair,t 1.5                               tta-.lce  at-an   la.-OaalI          a    $aa  -aa  hain -kick a aaba
cia..                                                                                  .1100th.M =   w  Ot
fluId ta.11  I-)tI.. b.at ba-   trab-a-i   - asi-idrch  rt. ibassa  ie                       taina  btaaln Psa.r  Ia.  IaiISatnla      ta.    a
is   n.,i-A7cm   tarhiira. I eka cr uy  tat an. daattie                         brat rate1-a  aaa P--       ismlinkLa iM-lr  at                       W.f atlrt
ratata  -a   rIs    aIl, aia:  n.  ii   s  la   ar.                               ansitI n   t h             tt.ikm  ltt  .  raSit    t.t.a
t.bl-: low. I.?.  ~ ~        ~      ~      att-t-Iad   aatrlaat.haat th-rItI tarn a-  f-.tI.an.1- _-3a
~flf taatirarar tra  Insnt- larn  .tat.  arran  attit  raiata            a    nALI  j- rraa   at prlsata      1 tafb asIo      at it.
latas   atlrb. I-af . M    tL ..at-  an   aa  -ri iaaa.    la
Pya  tis - at thcnitn   it.   0e    i   as  "I d.i.
acatary  a-il) I5 araaaue  rttr naatIs.  pa-ttbls.s.  It.
kan.  It Iats  an- anata  a                    ti tmd  thai tha be-aila 
OLan.  at tb. lt-aabii .1   n .       ta 1   swt   dtsrtcatll.a ran   t
pat-ot,oma at tbit aaPatat.  i,iaal.ar-at  it.ptI -,  nlc
at. tsiatla  as dIa-.1 ..!   lba.ti  traaa-ar  at i - ina
aa   aaattbe staabtI   a           ti  . l   a  at PI. ttaia  as



-22 -ANNU I
Page 4 of 4
COUNTY DATA - WZSTERN SAltOA
AREA                 POPULATION (mid-1983)                                   DENSITY
2,740 eq km          159 (thousend)                                          56 per sq km
Net Rate of Growth: o0h (from 1976 to 1983D
POPULATION CaARACTERISTICS (1976-83)                                         NEALTI                                                      J
Crude birth rate (per 1.000)                          31.0                   Population per physician                2,942
Crude death rate (per 1,000)                           7.4                   Population per hospitel bd                231
Infant mortality rate (per 1.000 live births)         33.0
EDUCATION                                                                    ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Adult literacy rate                    98S                                   2 of population - urban                  65.8
Primary school enrollment              912                                   2 of population - rural                   8.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WArER                                                         NUTRITmoN
2 of population - urban              100.0                                   Calorie intake ae % of requirement       82,0
- rural               23.0                                   Per capita dally protein Intake (gis)   49.0
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1983: US$980 /a                                            COVERINRNT FINANCE                     1983
(WS$ aln)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1983 Current prices)
Current receipts                      37.2
USS oln        X                                Current expenditure                    28.9
Current surplue                        8.3
GriP at market prices /b     156.0         100.0                             Developent expenditure                 31.8
Exporte of gooda              22.4          14.4                             External aeeistance and other (net)   26.8
Import of goods               58.0          37.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1975.      1976      1977      1978      1979       1980      1961      1982      1983
w-s$ million outetending at enkdof peri-dT
Money end qusi-money                 7.5        9.2      10.9      12.7      18.2       18.2      23.1      31.2      36.4
bank credit to public sector         0.5        0.1       0.8       1.0       4.8       6.2       10.0      12.3      10.1
Bank credit to private eector        3.8        5.9       7.2      10.1      10.7       11.3      12.0      14.2     &*.9
(Percentage or index n_bera)
Consumer price indez (1980-100)       ...       ...      66.2      67.7      75.2      100.0     120.5     142.6     166.0
Annual percentage chane in:
Consumer price index               ...        ...       ...       2.3      11.1      33.0       20.5      18.3      16.4
Beak credit to pubiLc sector       ...     -80.0      700.0      25.0     380.0      29.2       61.3      23.0    -17.9
Bank credit to private sector      ...       55.3      22.0      40.3       5.9       5.o        6.2      18.3      12.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1980         1981        1982              MERCIWSDIt EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-82)
(US$ million)
uSS min             2
Exports of goods                  17.1         10.5        11.7
Imports of goods                  59.1         51.5        44.5              Copra                   4.8              41.4
Trade balance                    -42.0        -41.0       -32.8              Coconut                 1.7              14.7
Banaaas                0.3               2.5
Services (net)                    -5.4        -7.3         -5.0              Timber                  0.6               5.2
Transfers (net)                   32.8         33.0        30.9              Taro                    1.8              15.5
Private                         18.7         18.6        18.6              Other                   2.4              20.7
Government                      14.1         14.4        12.3
Total            11.6             100.0
Balance on current account       -14.6       -15.3         -6.9
EKTERNAL DEBT. 1983                  US$ mIn
Nonmonetary capital (offi-
ctal) /b                        12.4         12.0         5.6              Public debt, muci. guaranteed           65.6               a
Overall balance                   -2.2        -3.3         -1.3              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 /c             S
Cro-s reserves                     2.7          3.3         3.5              Public debt, imcl. guaranteed            56.6
RATE OF fl.IRANGE     1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983           1FRD/MIA 2.ENIDIC;A   D9B0                IDA
WS$1.00 - US$        1.358   1.221   1.088   0.965   0.830   0.650
US$1.00 - WS$        0.736   0.819   0.919   1.036   1.2D5   1.538           Outatandiug & disbursed                   5.1
Undisbursed                               7.3
Ouet2xr4ing, tuc'. -mndisbureed          12.4
'a  Estimtes are tentative, as there are no   ational income accounts.
Wi  Includes errors and omiestone.
7Tc Ratio of debt service to exports of goodB and nonfactor servicea.
Note: All conversions to dollar In thie table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
February  . 1985



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN WESTERN SAMOA
A.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1984) /a
Amount (US$ mln)
(less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year       Borrower       Purpose            IDA   Undisbursed /b
One credit fulLy disbursed                                 4.4
951-USO       1979      Western Samoa  Agricultural        8.0         3.2
Development
1080-WSO      1981      Western Samoa  Agricultural        2.0 /c      1.4
Development II
Total                       14.4         4.6
Of which has been repaid            -
Total now outstanding             14.4
Amount sold                         -
Of which has been repaid            -
Total now held by IDA             '4.4
Total Undisbursed                             4.6
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b  Amount expressed here is USS equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in
terms of US$ commitments.
/c  Credit amount is SDR 1.6 million (equivalent to US$2.0 million at time of
comnitment).
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1984)
None.



-24 -                           ANNU  III
Page 1
INDEPENDENT STATE OF WESTERN SAMOA
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF WESTERN SAMOA PROJECT
Supplementar_ Credit and Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project prepared by:                     Government of Independent
State of Western Samoa, DBWS
and ADB
(b)  Time required to prepare project:        6 months
(c)  Appraisal by ADB:                        July/August 1984
(d)  First Presented to IDA:                  October 1984
(e)  Completion of IDA negotiations:          March 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           August 1985
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action
Participation as necessary in ADB supervision missions (paragraph 31).
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government and DBWS will review with the ADB and the Association
DBWS interest rate steucture annually taking into account the actual
and expected rate of inflation and the overall structure of the
interest rates in the country with a view to making a judgement on
the appropriateness of DBWS interest rates (paragraph 31); and
(b) DBWS will maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more than 3:1 and a
debt service cover ratio of no less than 1.25:1 (paragraph 48).



1724W                                       17i20.                                       Inu                                          il1w
5lia1                                                                          WESTERN SAMOA
Follollupto._ IJ~ S rnal^@<-                                                                                                                              PAVED ROADS
IMPROVED FOADS
PLAPiTATION ROADS
slu\  \UNIMPROVED ROADS
Noll                                                                                                                          ....   ....s,  \   \  *FERRY
El mvgVA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*AIRPORT
5  Al TVgv          V A                                                                           -: I-   IRIVERS
3 47  - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-13040Y
SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN
APOLIAtA ISLAND    Mulif ,       -             (         I
MANONO lISAND
71240'                                       17220               U     /                           tT                                                    F
,  JAPAN                                         U. u s . Sal FIIIICi O                                                                  rO ELEAT,               inu FAGALOIA BAY
CHINA                                                   X't                                                                                                                                 i"!
NORTHPACIFICOCEAN        HAWAl                          14GD                                                    Lotafaja                                So   Paill
Honolulu                                                                                                                     Lalufa2a
PHIIUPPINES                                                                                                                                                                    Cape Tpopag..
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                                                               SOUTH  PAC/F/C  OCEAN
IN06NESIA                                                             rr.u uv. t...    h
WESTERN SAMOA   In Papo                         .               ,-                                                              0                _   !
'W~ ~d PC7 W.1J mr.
FiIJ>i Si      ,TAHITI                    Crmr.r    d  FW3
Id "r  ' ko a                                                             0    4    3    12 
AUSTRALIA                      TONGA                                I*_ '7Wv 0l                                                                            4    S    12rMO
jz'  Ii  v   v  SOUTH PACIFIC OCEAN              e7.Aa,,wv7 7*-odO .zu                                                                                                          -
u. utn&Iai I NEWZEALAND                         00                                     17200                                       1714f






