CREDIT NUMBER        WSO
D01CU M'^ ·
Project Agreement
(Development Bank of Western Samoa Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF WESTERN SAMOA
Dated                              , 1985


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       , 1985, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO IATI    (the Association) and DEVELOP-
MENT BANK OF WESTERN SAMOA (DBWS).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Independent State of Western Samoa (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that DBWS
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS DBWS, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Sub-loans
Section 2.01. (a) Except as the Association and DBWS may
otherwise agree, the proceeds of the Credit shall be applied by
DBWS, in accordance with the provisions of this Project Agreement
and the Development Credit Agreement, only for making Sub-loans
to Qualified Enterprises and shall be applied exclusively to the
foreign exchange cost of goods and services required to carry out
Qualified Projects.
(b) Except as the Association and DBWS may otherwise agree,
all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 2-
Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account to finance the reasonable foreign exchange
cost of goods and services required for the Qualified Project in
respect of which the withdrawal is requested, subject, however,
to the following provisions:
(a) Whenever DBWS proposes to make a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan), DBWS shall, before requesting a withdrawal,
submit to the Association an application for approval of such
Sub-loan. Such application shall be in a form satisfactory to the
Association and shall contain a description and appraisal of the
Qualified Project, the terms and conditions of the proposed Sub-
loan and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) Whenever DBWS has made or proposes to make a free-limit
Sub-loan, DBWS shall, promptly and before requesting a with-
drawal, furnish to the Association a statement, in a form satis-
factory to the Association, describing the Qualified Project and
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan. No withdrawal shall be
made in respect of a Sub-loan falling within the provisions of
this paragraph unless the Association shall have authorized with-
drawals from the Credit Account.
(c) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
applications and information required by paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this Section shall be submitted to the Association on or
before September 30, 1988.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan shall not
extend beyond fifteen (15) years, including a grace period not
exceeding three (3) years, from the date when such Sub-loan is
approved or authorized for withdrawal from the Credit Account
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) or (b) of this Agreement; provided,
however, that a grace period not exceeding five (5) years may be
allowed in respect of Sub-loans for Qualified Projects for cocoa,
coconut, coffee or cattle.
Section 2.04. Each Sub-loan shall carry interest at an
appropriate rate and shall be made on terms whereby DBWS shall
obtain, by a written agreement with the Qualified Enterprise in


﻿-3-
form acceptable to the Association or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower,
the Association and DBWS.
Section 2.05. Without limiting the generality of the f ore-
going, and in addition to any other provisions which a prudent
lender would request, each Sub-loan agreement shall include
provisions, unless otherwise agreed by the Association, to the
effect that:
(i) the Qualified Enterprise     shall  carry  out and
operate the Qualified Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and business practices,
including maintenance of adequate account and
records;
(ii) the proceeds of the Credit shall be used only for
procurement   in  eligible  source   countries  as
specified by the Association, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association, of goods
produced in, and services supplied from, such
countries;
(iii) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the Qualified Project;
(iv) the Association and DBWS shall each have the right
to inspect such goods and the plants, sites,
works, properties and equipment included in such
Qualified Project, the operation thereof and any
relevant records and documents;
(v) the   Qualified  Enterprise   shall  take  out  and
maintain   with  responsible   insurers  insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound business practices, and,
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the
place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable to replace or repair such
goods;


﻿(vi)  the Association and DBWS shall each be entitled to
obtain all such information as each shall reason-
ably request relating to the Sub-loan, the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Qualified Project, the Qualified
Enterprise and other related matters; and
(vii) DBWS shall be entitled to suspend or terminate
further access by the Qualified Enteprise to the
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by
the Qualified Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its agreement with DBWS.
Section 2.06. DBWS shall promptly and effectively exercise
its rights in relation to each Qualified Project in accordance
with the standards of a prudent lender and in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower, DBWS and the Association.
Section 2.07. DBWS shall not make a Sub-loan to any Quali-
fied Enterprise unless such Qualified Enterprise has at its dis-
posal, or had made appropriate arrangements to obtain as and when
required, all local currency funds, inc.luding adequate working
capital and other resources which are required by such Qualified
Enterprise for the carrying out of its Qualified Project in
respect of which the Sub-loan is to be made.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) DBWS declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Section 3.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial, business and development
policies and practices.
(b) Without limitation on the provision of sub-paragraph
(a) above, except as the Association may otherwise agree, DBWS
shall carry out or cause to be carried out all of its obligations
set forth in Schedule 4 to the ADB Loan Agreement and in the
Schedule to the ADB Project Agreement. Notwithstanding the
termination of the ADB Loan Agreement, the ADB Project Agreement
or the Administration Letter, the provision of this sub-paragraph


﻿-5-
and the relevant provisions of such Schedules shall continue to
remain in force and effect as if the said provisions of such
Schedules were fully set forth herein. References to the ADB,
sub-loans and the Loan in such Schedules shall be read for the
purposes of this Agreement to be references to the Association,
Sub-loans and the Credit, respectively.
(c) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, DBWS
shall not make any substantial naendment to the Policy Statement.
(d) DBWS shall not effect changes in the positions of the
General Manager and the Assistant General Managers of DBWS with-
out prior consultation with the Association.
Section 3.02. DBWS shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Association and DBWS shall cooperate
fully tn ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accom-
plished,
(b) DBWS shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(c) The Association and DBWS shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to any matters relating to the Project,
DBWS and the Credit.
Section 3.04. (a) DBWS shall have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheet, statement of income and expenses, and
related statements) audited annually in a long form audit report
format, in accordance with sound auditing standards, by indepen-
dent private auditors acceptable to the Association, and shall,
promptly after their preparation but in any event not later than
four (4) months after the close of the fiscal year to which they
relate, furnish to the Association: (i) certified copies of such
audited financial statements; and (ii) the report of the auditors
relating thereto, all in the English language. DBWS shall furnish


﻿to the Association such further information concerning such
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) The report of the auditor referred to in sub-paragraph
(a) of this Section shall include comments on the quality and
collectibility of DBWS's loan portfolio, the adequacy of the
provision for doubtful loans, the adequacy of DBWS's accounting
and internal control procedures and the status of compliance by
DBWS with the financial covenant set out in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement.
(c) DBWS shall authorize and grant to the Association, upon
its request, the opportunity to discuss DBWS's financial state-
ments and its financial affairs from time to time with DBWS's
auditors, and shall further authorize and require any representa-
tive of such auditors to participate in any such discussions
requested by the Association, provided, however, that any such
discussion shall be conducted only in the presence of an
authorized officer of DBWS except as DBWS shall otherwise agree.
Section 3.05. (a) DBWS shall, promptly as required, take all
action within its powers to maintain its corporate existence, to
carry on its operations, and to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, properties, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of
its business.
(b) DBWS shall at all times conduct its business in accor-
dance with sound administrative, financial, business and develop-
ment policies and practices, and under the supervision of compe-
tent and experienced management and personnel.
(c) Except as the Association and DBWS may otherwise agree,
DBWS shall not: (i) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of any of
its assets, except in the ordinary course of its business; or
(ii) v.stablish or acquire any subsidiary.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association and the Borrower may
otherwise agree, DBWS shall: (i) maintain a ratio of the consoli-
dated debt of DBWS and all its subsidiaries to the consolidated
equity of DBWS and all its subsidiaries not higher than 3:1; and
(ii) maintain a debt service ratio of not less than 1.25:1. For
the purposes of the foregoing provisions:


﻿-7-
(i) "Debt" refers to any debt incurred, assumed or
guaranteed by DBWS or a subsidiary which matures
more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred (but excluding that portion of
any such debt payable within one year from the
date of any debt-equity ratio calculation), pro-
vided that debt shall be counted only to the
extent it is drawn down and outstanding;
(ii)  "Consolidated debt of DBWS and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of DBWS and
of all its subsidiaries, excluding any debt owned
by DBWS to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to
DBWS or to any other subsidiary;
(iii)  "Consolidated equity of DBWS and all its sub-
sidiaries"  means   the  aggregate  of  the  total
unimpaired paid-in capital, surplus and free
reserves of DBWS and all its subsidiaries after
excluding such items of capital, surplus and
reserves as shall represent equity interests of
DBWS in any such subsidiary or of any such
subsidiary in DBWS or any other such subsidiary;
and
(iv)  "Debt-service ratio" means the ratio of the annual
net income of DBWS after tax but before interest
and depreciation plus principal collections under
its loan portfolio, to the aggregate amount of
annual amortization (including sinking fund pay-
ment) of, and interest and other charges, on debt.
Section 3.07. DBWS shall cause each of its subsidiaries to
observe and perform the obligations of DBWS under this Agreement
to the extent to which such obligations may be applicable there-
to, as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
subsidiaries.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
DBWS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and shall not take, or concur in, any action which
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving any rights or obligations of the parties under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿8
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DBWS shall take out and maintain such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
Section 3.10. The Association may, by notice to DBWS, dele-
gate to the ADB under an administration letter, for the duration
of such period as may be set forth in the Administration Letter,
any or all of its functions and responsibilities under Articles
II and III of this Agreement and DBWS shall comply with the pro-
visions of said Articles as if the ADB is substituted for the
Association therein. The obligation of DBWS to comply with said
Articles II and III shall continue in force and effect not-
withstanding ary termination or suspension of such delegated
functions and responsibilities to the ADB under the Administra-
tion Letter.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01, This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of DBWS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date on which the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
terminates in accordance with its terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance wiuh its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
DBWS of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DBWS:
Development Bank of Westera Samoa
P.O. Box 1232
Apia, Western Samoa
Cable address:                   Telex:
DEVBANK                           212 DEVBANK SX
Apia


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of DBWS, or by DBWS on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by its General Manager or such other person or persons as the
General Manager shall designate in writing, and DBWS shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF WESTERN SAMOA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           (day of
1981.
FOR SECRETARY


