Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3620 UZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Bukhara and Samarkand Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 12, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3620 UZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
Page  2
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount 
equal to twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in 
respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan 
Agreement are made; 
(D)
Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project will be carried out by the Bukhara Regional 
Production Enterprise Suvokova (BVK), a legal entity established and operating under the laws 
of the Borrower, and Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project will be carried out by the Samarkand 
Municipal Production Enterprise Suvokova (SVK), a legal entity established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower, all with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Credit) available to BVK and SVK, as set forth in this Agreement; 
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Switzerland a grant in 
an amount equivalent to nine million Dollars ($9,000,000) (the Swiss Grant) to assist in the 
financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Government of Switzerland (the Swiss Grant  Agreement); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and 
in the BVK Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank, BVK, 
and the Bukhara Region and in the SVK Project Agreement of even date herewith among the 
Association, the Bank, SVK, and the Samarkand Region;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
Page  3
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on January 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”;
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Bukhara Region” means the Bukhara Viloyat of the Borrower or any successor 
thereto;
(b)
“BVK” means the Bukhara Regional Production Enterprise Suvokova, a legal 
entity established under the Law of the Borrower on Enterprises and registered by Decision No. 
537, dated March 6, 1996, of the Hokim of Bukhara, or any successor thereto;
(c)
“BVK Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the 
Bank, BVK and the Bukhara Region of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the BVK 
Project Agreement;
(d)
“BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BVK pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the BVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
Page  4
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan for the Project, satisfactory 
to the Association, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the environmental 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the Project;
(h)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; 
and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended through December 2, 
1997, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan 
Agreement;
(i)
“Municipality of Bukhara” means the City of Bukhara of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto;
(j)
“Municipality of Samarkand” means the City of Samarkand of the Borrower, or 
any successor thereto;
(k)
“Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Association setting 
forth procedures and rules related to Project implementation, prepared and adopted by the 
Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(l)
“Operator” means an internationally experienced private sector water utility 
operator that will enter into the Service Contract (hereinafter defined) with BVK and SVK and 
the Municipalities of Bukhara and Samarkand;
(m)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established by the Borrower for 
purposes of Project coordination and management;
(n)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the Project 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association; 
(o)
“Project Account” means the account to be opened by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement for purposes of making 
available the counterpart contribution to the financing of the Project; 
(p)
“Project Coordination Committee” means the Committee established by the 
Borrower to provide policy guidance and oversight of Project implementation;
(q)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  5
(r)
“Repair and Rehabilitation Fund” means the special fund established, 
administered and maintained by the Borrower for the purposes of financing essential investments 
under Part A of the Project for the repair and rehabilitation of the water supply systems in 
Bukhara and Samarkand;
(s)
“SVK” means the Samarkand Municipal Production Enterprise Suvokova, a 
legal entity established under the Law of the Borrower on Enterprises and registered by Decision 
No. 386/1-k, dated May 30, 2001, of the Hokim of Samarkand, or any successor thereto;
(t)
“SVK Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the 
Bank, SVK and the Samarkand Region of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the SVK 
Project Agreement;
(u)
“Samarkand Region” means the Samarkand Viloyat of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(v)
“SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SVK pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the SVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; 
(w)
“Service Contract” means the performance-based service contract that BVK, 
SVK and the Municipalities of Bukhara and Samarkand will enter into with the Operator for: (i) 
the management of water services in the BVK and SVK service areas in the Municipalities of 
Bukhara and Samarkand; (ii) the rehabilitation and operations improvement of the water 
treatment and distribution system; (iii) the implementation of a program of demand management 
and customer service; (iv) an energy efficiency program; and (v) the implementation and 
operation of commercial and financial management systems for BVK and SVK;
(x)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(y)
“Sum” means the lawful currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,900,000).
Page  6
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and 
July 15 commencing July 15, 2012 and ending January 15, 2037. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on January 15, 2022 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
Page  7
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned      repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause BVK, 
SVK and the Bukhara and Samarkand Regions to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the BVK Project Agreement and the SVK Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of 
BVK, SVK and the Bukhara and Samarkand Regions therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken the actions provided for in the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, and all other action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BVK, SVK and the Bukhara and Samarkand 
Regions to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Page  8
(b)
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to BVK under 
a subsidiary loan agreement (the BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and BVK, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association and which shall include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to SVK under 
a subsidiary loan agreement (the SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and SVK, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association and which shall include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the SVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(f)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Project Account referred to in Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement, and shall replenish said account promptly every quarter with sufficient funds to 
enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such 
period; (b) use the amount in said Project Account for financing the Borrower’s contribution to 
Project expenditures; and (c) ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in the 
Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this  Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary in respect of BVK,  SVK 
and the Municipalities of Bukhara and Samarkand
 to ensure that the Service Contract with 
the Operator, satisfactory to the Association, is maintained throughout Project implementation.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that BVK and 
SVK are able to meet their financial obligations as they fall due, including those under the 
Page  9
Service Contract.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) the activities of BVK under Parts A.1, B.1 and C 
of the Project shall be carried out by BVK pursuant to Section 2.03 of the BVK Project 
Agreement; and (b) the activities of SVK under Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project shall be 
carried out by SVK pursuant to Section 2.03 of the SVK Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:  
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at 
least one year after 
the Association has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account 
was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Page  10
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, or caused to be carried out, a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system for the 
Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare, or cause to be prepared, quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Page  11
Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that: (a) the 
Bukhara and Samarkand Regions shall review, in accordance with established procedures, the 
periodic proposals for tariff adjustments submitted by BVK and SVK quarterly; and (b) 
thereafter, said Regions shall promptly take action to adjust said tariffs so that BVK and SVK 
can meet their obligations by collecting sufficient revenues to cover operation and maintenance 
costs and other expenses.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Bukhara and Samarkand Regions shall, after review of the forecast amount of water consumption 
prepared by BVK and SVK every six months: (a) allocate in the relevant operating budgets of 
budget organizations adequate funds for payment of water fees; and (b) ensure that said funds are 
paid to BVK and SVK.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Bukhara and Samarkand Regions shall: (a) enable BVK and SVK to collect water fees from their 
respective customers, including but not limited to disconnection of non-paying customers; and 
(b) assist the Operator in the implementation of said collection of water fees.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure appropriate 
yearly budgetary allocations to the central and municipal budgets required for Project 
implementation.
Section 4.07. By June 30, 2002, the Borrower shall define and initiate implementation of 
adequate measures to enable accounts payable and receivable of BVK and SVK to be reduced to 
a
level that will allow BVK and SVK to conduct properly their financial and commercial 
activities and to prevent blocking of their bank accounts.
Section 4.08.  The Borrower shall provide to BVK and SVK an annual budget subsidy 
equal to the difference between: (a) the payments made by the Borrower to the Association for 
commitment charge, service charge and installments for repayment of  the principal amount of 
the Credit; and (b) the payments due by BVK and SVK, respectively, to the Borrower as defined 
in the BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
BVK or the Bukhara Region shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the BVK Project Agreement.
Page  12
(b)
SVK or the Samarkand Region shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the SVK Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BVK or the Bukhara Region will be able to perform their respective obligations under the 
BVK Project Agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development 
Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SVK or the Samarkand Region will be able to perform their respective obligations under the 
SVK Project Agreement.
(e)
The Civil Code of the Borrower, enacted by Resolution 257-I dated August 29, 
1996, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of BVK or SVK to perform any of their obligations under the 
respective Project Agreement.
(f)
The Swiss Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 30, 
2002 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of 
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(g)
(i)  
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing thereof; or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(h) 
(i)
the PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived 
without the Association’s prior consent; and (ii) the Operational Manual shall have been 
Page  13
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived without the Association’s prior consent.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (h) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur; 
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur 
subject to the proviso of that paragraph; and 
(d)
the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, 
except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b)
the BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,  has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and BVK;
(c)
the SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,  has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and SVK;
(d)
the Service Contract, satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower, has been 
executed on behalf of BVK, SVK, the Municipalities of Bukhara and Samarkand and the 
Operator;
(e)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association in Sum and the Association has received evidence that an initial 
Page  14
amount equivalent to $20,000 has been deposited into said Account;
(f) 
the Borrower has adopted the PIP and the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(g)
the Borrower has selected the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the BVK Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by BVK 
and the Bukhara Region and is legally binding upon BVK and the Bukhara Region in accordance 
with its terms;
(b)
that the SVK Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SVK 
and the Samarkand Region and is legally binding upon SVK and the Samarkand Region in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and BVK and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BVK in accordance with 
its terms; and
(d)
that the SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and SVK and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SVK in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
Page  15
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance 
Mustakilik Square 5
Tashkent 700078
Republic of Uzbekistan
Telex:
Facsimile:
11 6360 IK BOL
(998-71)133-66-61
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)     or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By /s/ Mamariso Nurmuradov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  16
By /s/ James Wolfensohn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Loan to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
Credit Allocated   
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in         
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
in USD)
to be Financed
(1) BVK
 
(a)
Works under Part A.1
1,950,000
2,420,000
85%
of the Project
(b) Goods under Part B.1
3,060,000
3,840,000
100 % of 
of the Project
foreign
expenditures 
and 100% of
local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 
50% of local 
expenditures 
for other items
procured 
locally
(c)
Management Services
950,000
1,180,000
100%
under Part B.1 of
the Project
(d) Consultants Services
450,000
530,000
100%
under Parts B.1 and C
of the Project
Page  17
(e)
Incremental operating
110,000
130,000
75% 
costs of the PCU,
including audit costs
(2) SVK
 
(a)
Works under Part A.2
2,330,000
2,910,000
85%
of the Project
(b) Goods under Part A.2
3,700,000
4,620,000
100% of 
of the Project
foreign
expenditures 
and 100% of
local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 
50% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(c)
Management Services
1,140,000
1,410,000
100%
under Part B.2 of
the Project
(d) Consultants Services
515,000
650,000
100%
under Parts B.2 and C
of the Project
(e)
Incremental operating
120,000
150,000
75%
costs of the PCU,
including audit costs
(3)  Fee
200,000
Amount due 
under
Section 2.04 of 
the Loan
Agreement
(4) Unallocated
1,575,000              1,960,000
TOTAL
15,900,000
20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
Page  18
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Management Services” means services under the Service Contract for 
BVK and SVK under Part B of the Project; and
(d)
the term “Incremental operating costs of the PCU” means operating expenditures 
incurred by the PCU on account of management of Project implementation for communications, 
utilities, printing and publications, office rent, maintenance and supplies, office security systems, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, transportation and field trip expenses, training of PCU staff 
for purposes of Project management, remuneration for staff, including qualified social charges 
but excluding salaries of civil servants, and audits and such other expenditures as may be agreed 
upon by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each; (c)PCU’s
Incremental Operating Costs for the PCU; and (d) services costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars separate special deposit accounts  for: 
(a)  Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project, in respect of the activities of BVK under the BVK 
Project Agreement (the BVK Special Account) with respect to the proceeds of the Credit; and (b) 
Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project, in respect of the activities of SVK under the SVK Project 
Agreement (the SVK Special Account) with respect to the proceeds of the Credit, each in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has 
been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into said Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
Page  19
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; and 
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records 
and accounts for any Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into 
said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  20
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six 
month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (a) in respect of the BVK Special Account for 
Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project,  an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the BVK Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated 
to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000; and (b) in respect of 
the SVK Special Account for Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project, an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the SVK Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal of exceed the equivalent of SDR 
2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
Page  21
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said  Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said 
Categories  shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the respective 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a Special 
Page  22
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000 in 
respect of the BVK Special Account for Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project and $500,000 in 
respect of the SVK Special Account for Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) rehabilitate and improve the efficiency of 
existing water supply facilities and infrastructure in Bukhara and Samarkand; (b) strengthen the 
institutional capacity of BVK and SVK; and (c) strengthen BVK’s and SVK’s financial capacity 
through improved financial management and commercial practices.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:  
Part A:
Repair and Rehabilitation of Water Supply System and Infrastructure
Improvement of operations of the water supply system and the services to the customers 
through:
1.
Rehabilitation and efficiency improvement of existing water supply facilities and 
services to customers in Bukhara, including: (a) design, implementation and supervision of the 
repairs and rehabilitation of water distribution systems; (b) water production, treatment and 
pumping equipment and structural rehabilitation of facilities; (c) bulk and retail water measuring 
equipment and control systems; (d) design, evaluation, installation and operation of water supply 
technical, administrative, financial, commercial and customer service support systems; and (e) 
operating and construction equipment, materials and parts, operations consumables and 
administrative operation.
2.
Rehabilitation and efficiency improvement of existing water supply facilities and 
services to customers in Samarkand, including: (a) design, implementation and supervision of the 
repairs and rehabilitation of water distribution systems; (b) water production, treatment and 
pumping equipment and structural rehabilitation of facilities; (c) bulk and retail water measuring 
equipment and control systems; (d) design, evaluation, installation and operation of water supply 
technical, administrative, financial, commercial and customer service support systems; and (e) 
Page  23
operating and construction equipment, materials and parts, operations consumables and 
administrative operation.
Part B
: Service Contract
Provision of services in order to: 
1.
with respect to BVK:
(a)
operate water supply facilities to carry out:
(i)
the pumping and transportation of water from water wells, reservoirs, 
collection 
points and the point of supply by any bulk water 
supplier;
(ii)
the disinfection and treatment of water where necessary; and
(iii)
the distribution and supply of drinking water to the customers;
(b)
maintain the facilities and develop comprehensive maintenance management 
programs for the facilities;
(c)
develop and manage programs to train and advance the skills of staff of BVK;
(d)
carry out all billings, collections and customer relations and service functions 
related to the customers in the service areas with respect to both water and wastewater services;
(e)
carry out all management, financial and administrative responsibilities related to 
BVK;
(f)
plan and manage the implementation of programs carried out under the Repair 
and Rehabilitation Fund; and
(g)
provide ongoing assistance and advice to BVK on all matters related to BVK, 
the services, and any requests for information, advice or reports from the regulators of BVK with 
respect to the facilities or the services.
2.
with respect to SVK:
(a)
operate water supply facilities to carry out:
(i)
the pumping and transportation of water from water wells, reservoirs, 
collection points and the point of supply by any bulk water suppliers;
Page  24
(ii)
the disinfection and treatment of water where necessary; and
(iii)
the distribution and supply of drinking water to the customers;
(b)
maintain the facilities and develop comprehensive maintenance management 
programs for the facilities;
(c)
develop and manage programs to train and advance the skills of staff of SVK;
(d)
carry out all billings, collections and customer relations and service functions 
related to the customers in the service areas with respect to both water and 
wastewater services;
(e)
carry out all management, financial and administrative responsibilities related to 
SVK;
(f)
plan and manage the implementation of programs carried out under the Repair 
and Rehabilitation Fund; and
(g)
provide ongoing assistance and advice to SVK on all matters related to SVK, the 
services, and any requests for information, advice or reports from the regulators 
of SVK with respect to the facilities or the services.
Part C
: Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including audit services,
 
and incremental operating 
costs to the PCU for Project management. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
Page  25
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and Management 
Services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods, works and Management Services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the Service Contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
Page  26
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for urgent repairs associated with operational emergencies, estimated to cost less 
than $25,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made 
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods, works and Management Services 
procured in accordance with international competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first two 
contracts for works procured in accordance with national competitive bidding procedures, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; and (ii) the first three contracts for works procured in 
accordance with small works procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, or any 
contractor under small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
Page  27
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract procured under shopping 
procedures or under small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Engineering designs estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
Page  28
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for surveys and studies related to public awareness and community relations 
under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for short term advisory services and legal services, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms or individual 
consultants, irrespective of the value of the contract, the terms of reference shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
Page  29
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the PCU until completion of the Project, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and assign to it responsibility for 
overall Project coordination, including:
(a) 
preparation of disbursement applications under the Credit;
(b) 
management of the Special Accounts referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(c)
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging for the 
audit thereof;
(d)
participation in administration of bidding procedures and of contracts under the 
Project; and
(e) 
preparation of quarterly progress reports and submission thereof to the Borrower 
and the Association not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, the first such report to be 
furnished to the Association not later than August 31, 2002.
2.
The Borrower, through the PCU, shall prepare and furnish to the Association by June 30 
in each year, for its review and concurrence, an annual work program for the Project for the 
following calendar year,  including procurement and financing plans. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the 
Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner and shall include adequate 
information on the carrying out of such measures in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 
1(e) of this Schedule.
4.
The Borrower, together with BVK and SVK and the Bukhara and Samarkand Regions, 
shall: (a) review with the Association, not later than March 31, 2005 proposals for continued 
management of the water services of Bukhara and Samarkand upon completion of the Service 
Contract, with due consideration to various options for public and private sector management; 
Page  30
and (b) based on the conclusions and recommendations of said review, take appropriate measures 
regarding the management of the water services upon completion of the Service Contract.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that technical and financial audits of the Operator’s 
performance will be carried out annually, the first such audit to be completed  by June 30, 2003, 
or such later date as may be agreed upon with the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and (b) 
thereafter, submit the results of said audits to the Association for its review.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about June 30, 2004, a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall 
include the following principal terms and conditions:
(a)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in Dollars and 
shall be repaid by the Sub-borrower to the Borrower in semi-annual installments over twenty (20) 
years, including a grace period of five (5) years;
(b)
interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower 
from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of the Loan Agreement; and
Page  31
(c)
a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of the Subsidiary 
Loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 
2.05 of the Loan Agreement.
