Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4655 UZ
Loan Agreement
(Bukhara and Samarkand Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 12, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4655 UZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Page  2
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the development credit agreement (the 
Development Credit Agreement) of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
International Development Association (the Association), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional financial 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in a principal amount equivalent to fifteen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000) (the Credit);
(C)
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the proceeds of 
the credit provided for in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) are made; 
(D)
Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project will be carried out by the Bukhara Regional 
Production Enterprise Suvokova (BVK), a legal entity established and operating under the laws 
of the Borrower, and Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project will be carried out by the Samarkand 
Municipal Production Enterprise Suvokova (SVK), a legal entity established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower, all with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) available to BVK and SVK, as set forth in this Agreement, as well as the proceeds of the 
Credit, as set forth in the Development Credit Agreement; 
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Switzerland a grant in 
an amount equivalent to nine million Dollars ($9,000,000) (the Swiss Grant) to assist in the 
financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Government of Switzerland (the Swiss Grant  Agreement); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the BVK 
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank, BVK, and the 
Bukhara Region and in the SVK Project Agreement of even date herewith among the 
Association, the Bank, SVK and the Samarkand Region;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
Page  3
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Preamble to this Agreement, in the General Conditions and in the Development Credit 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
“2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BVK pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 2nd BVK Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; 
(b)
“Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended 
from time to time; and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Credit Agreement;
(c)
“2nd SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SVK pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 2nd SVK Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; and
(d)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as the Bank 
Page  4
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to two 
hundred thousand Dollars ($200,000).  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of the said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six month deposits in Dollars for value the first 
day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, 
for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the 
first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
Page  5
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 3.01 (a), 3.01 (f), 
3.02, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06 and Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1.A, 2 
and 4 thereto are incorporated in this Agreement, with the following modifications in said 
Articles and in said Schedules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”;
(ii)
the term “Credit” and “Credit Account” shall be read as “Loan” and 
“Loan Account”; 
and
(iii)
the term “this Agreement” shall be read as “the Development Credit 
Agreement.”
(b)
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the 
Bank:
(i)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association with 
respect to any 
Project-related matter under the Development Credit Agreement 
shall be deemed 
to be taken or given in the name and on behalf of both 
the Association and the 
Bank; and
(ii)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Association 
with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the 
provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement, including the 
General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit 
Agreements referred to therein, or of the Loan Agreement, 
shall be 
Page  6
deemed to be furnished to both the Association and the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to 
BVK under a subsidiary loan agreement (the 2nd  BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and BVK, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank and which shall include those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to SVK under a 
subsidiary loan agreement (the 2nd SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and SVK, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank 
and which shall include those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 2nd SVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 2nd SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of  Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) the activities of BVK under Parts A.1, B.1 and C of 
the Project shall be carried out by BVK pursuant to Section 2.03 of the BVK Project Agreement; 
and (b) the activities of SVK under Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project shall be carried out by 
SVK pursuant to Section 2.03 of the SVK Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events set out in Section 5.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement shall have occurred, provided, however, that the term 
Page  7
“Association” wherever it appears in such Section shall be read as “Bank.”
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, any of the events set out in Section 5.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, provided, however, that the term “Association” wherever it 
appears in such Section shall be read as “Bank.”
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Development Credit Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b)
the 2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and BVK; and
(c)
the 2nd SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and SVK.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the 2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and BVK and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BVK in 
accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the 2nd SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and SVK and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SVK in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the termination of 
this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement referred to in this 
Page  8
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance 
Mustakilik Square 5
Tashkent 700078
Republic of Uzbekistan
Telex:
Facsimile:
116360 IKBOL 
(998-71) 133-6361
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
Page  9
By /s/ Mamariso Nurmuradov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
Authorized Representative
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars separate special deposit accounts  for: 
(a)  Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project, in respect of the activities of BVK under the BVK 
Project Agreement (the 2nd BVK Special Account) with respect to the proceeds of the Loan; and 
(b) Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project, in respect of the activities of SVK under the SVK Project 
Agreement (the 2nd SVK Special Account) with respect to the proceeds of the Loan, each in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into said Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; and 
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the 
Page  11
records and accounts for any Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management 
Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. 
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (a) in respect 
of the 2nd BVK Special Account for Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project,  an amount equivalent 
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 2nd BVK Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; and (b) in respect of the 2nd SVK Special 
Account for Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be 
Page  12
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 2nd SVK Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish said  Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the respective Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special 
Page  13
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into a Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000 in 
respect of the 2nd BVK Special Account for Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project and $500,000 in 
respect of the 2nd SVK Special Account for Parts A.2, B.2 and C of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
October 15, 2007
510,000
April 15, 2008
520,000
October 15, 2008
530,000
April 15, 2009
540,000
October 15, 2009
550,000
April 15, 2010
560,000
October 15, 2010
565,000
April 15, 2011
580,000
October 15, 2011
590,000
April 15, 2012
600,000
October 15, 2012
610,000
April 15, 2013
620,000
October 15, 2013
630,000
April 15, 2014
640,000
October 15, 2014
655,000
April 15, 2015
665,000
October 15, 2015
675,000
April 15, 2016
690,000
October 15, 2016
700,000
April 15, 2017
715,000
October 15, 2017
725,000
April 15, 2018
740,000
Page  14
October 15, 2018
750,000
April 15, 2019
765,000
October 15, 2019
780,000
April 15, 2020
795,000
October 15, 2020
805,000
April 15, 2021
820,000
October 15, 2021
835,000
April 15, 2022
840,000
____________________
*The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: 
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and Management 
Services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods, works and Management Services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the Service Contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be 
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Page  16
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for urgent repairs associated with operational emergencies, estimated to cost less 
than $25,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods, works and Management Services 
procured in accordance with international competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first two 
contracts for works procured in accordance with national competitive bidding procedures, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; and (ii) the first three contracts for works procured in 
Page  17
accordance with small works procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, or any 
contractor under small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of the contract procured under shopping 
procedures or under small works procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Engineering designs estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
Page  18
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for surveys and studies related to public awareness and community relations 
under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for short term advisory services and legal services, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms or individual 
consultants, irrespective of the value of the contract, the terms of reference shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
Page  19
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The 2nd BVK and 2nd SVK Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include 
the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in 
Dollars and shall be repaid by the Sub-borrower to the Borrower in 
semi-annual installments over twenty (20) years, including a grace 
period of five (5) years;
(ii)
a fee to be calculated on the basis of the amount specified in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement shall be charged and shall be  payable upon the 
date of effectiveness of the Subsidiary Loan;
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to 
the rate payable 
by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to 
Section 2.06 (a) of this 
Agreement; and
(iv)
a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from 
time to time pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
