Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 
3620 UZ
LOAN NUMBER 4655 UZ
BVK Project Agreement
(Bukhara and Samarkand Water Supply Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BUKHARA REGIONAL PRODUCTION ENTERPRISE SUVOKOVA
and
BUKHARA REGION
Dated April 12, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3620 UZ
LOAN NUMBER 4655 UZ
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 2002, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), BUKHARA REGIONAL PRODUCTION ENTERPRISE 
SUVOKOVA (BVK), a legal entity registered with the Municipality of Bukhara under Decision 
No. 537, /dated March 6, 1996, and the BUKHARA REGION.
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of the Republic of Uzbekistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BVK and 
Bukhara Region agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of the Republic 
of Uzbekistan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BVK and the Bukhara Region agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BVK, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement equivalent to [fourteen million four hundred thousand dollars ($14.4 mln)] 
________________________- Special Drawing Rights (SDR______) will be made available to 
BVK on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(D)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BVK, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to BVK on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BVK and the Bukhara Region, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank’s entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Page  3
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, whenever used in this 
Agreement, references to the Association, the Credit and the Credit Account shall also be 
deemed to be references to the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BVK and the Bukhara Region declare their commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, BVK shall carry out Parts A.1, B.1 and FC of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, commercial, engineering, 
water supply and environmental practices, and BVK and the Bukhara Region shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association, BVK and the Bukhara Region shall otherwise agree, BVK shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) BVK shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the 
General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the BVK Project Agreement and Parts A.1, B.1 and C of 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred 
to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement and without limitation thereto, BVK shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and BVK, a plan for the future operation of 
Page  4
Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
BVK on said plan.
Section 2.04. BVK shall duly perform all its obligations under the BVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the 2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, BVK shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the 2nd BVK 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BVK and the Bukhara Region shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the 
Project, the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and BVK’s 
obligations under the BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the 2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
BVK and the Bukhara Region shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.1, B.1 and C of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BVK or the 
Bukhara Region of their respective obligations under this Agreement and by BVK under the 
BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the 2nd BVK Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. BVK and the Bukhara Region shall ensure that the Service Contract with 
the Operator, satisfactory to the Association, is maintained throughout Project implementation.
Section 2.07. The Bukhara Region shall take all measures necessary to ensure that BVK 
is able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due, including those under the Service 
Contract.
Section 2.08. After contributing an initial amount to the Project Account referred to in 
Section 6.01(e) of the Development Credit Agreement, BVK and the Bukhara Region shall 
contribute to the replenishment of said Project Account promptly every quarter with sufficient 
funds from their own resources to cover the projected counterpart financing requirements for 
local expenditures to be made under Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project in the succeeding three 
months.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BVK
Section 3.01. BVK shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial, engineering, commercial, water supply and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
Page  5
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BVK shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and business 
practices.
Section 3.03. BVK shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers [, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for,] insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BVK shall [maintain / shallmaintain] a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project.
(b)
BVK  shall:
(A)
(i) by June 30, 2003 have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(statements of income and expenses) for the fiscal year 2002; and (ii) by 
June 30 of each following year, have its records, accounts and financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for the previous fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(B)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (AA) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited; and (BB) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(C)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section. 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, BVK shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the 
Page  6
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable BVK, not later than June 30, 2003, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Parts A.1, B.1 
and C of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for Parts 
A.1, B.1 and C of the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of Parts A.1, B.1 and 
C
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (B) explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts A.1, B.1 and C the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, BVK shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BVK shall not incur 
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of BVK shows that the 
estimated net revenues of BVK for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.2 times the estimated debt service requirements of BVK in such any future year 
on all debt of BVK including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of BVK maturing by its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
Page  7
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term “"net revenues”" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of collected revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)   The term "“net non-operating income"” means the difference between:
(A)
collected revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “"debt service requirements”" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term “"reasonable forecast”" means a forecast prepared by BVK not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, 
which both the Association and BVK accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Association has notified BVK of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial condition or future operating results of BVK.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Association.
Section 4.04. The Bukhara Region shall review, in accordance with established 
procedures, the periodic proposals for tariff adjustments submitted by BVK at least quarterly 
and, thereafter, shall promptly take action to adjust said tariffs so that BVK can meet its 
obligations by collecting sufficient revenues to cover operation and maintenance costs and other 
Page  8
expenses.
Section 4.05. The Bukhara Region, after review of the forecast amount of water 
consumption prepared by BVK every six months shall: (a) allocate in the relevant operating 
budget of budget organizations adequate funds for payment of water fees; and (b) ensure that 
said funds are paid to BVK.
Section 4.06. The Bukhara Region shall: (a) enable BVK to collect water fees from its 
customers, including but not limited to disconnection of non-paying customers; and (b) assist the 
Operator in the implementation of said collection of water fees.
Section 4.07. The Bukhara Region shall take all measures necessary to ensure 
appropriate yearly budgetary allocations to the regional budget required for Project 
implementation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the Bank,  BVK, 
and the Bukhara Region
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement have terminated in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date ________
 
The number of years would normally be that 
of the terms of repayment of a loan for such a project. It may also 
be based on the average length of life of assets purchased or 
created under the Project.
thirty five (35) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify BVK and the Bukhara Region of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement.
Page  9
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For BVK:
Bukhara Production Enterprise SUVOKOVA
111, Muradov Str.
Bukhara
705001 Uzbekistan
Facsimile:
Page  10
9987165 2242308
For the Bukhara Region:
Bukhara Region:
Bukhara Viloyat Khokimiyat
1 Ibrahim Muminov Str.,
Bukhara
705018, Uzbekistan
Facsimile:
9987165  2243833
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of: (a)________________________ [, 
or by ________________________________ on behalf of the Borrower under the Development 
Credit Agreement,] BVK  may be taken or executed by 
_______________________________________its Director  or such other person or persons as 
____________________________________________ the Director shall designate in writing; 
and (b) the Bukhara Region may be taken or executed by its Governor or such other person or 
persons as the Governor shall designate in writing, and  
______________________________BVK and the Bukhara Region shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Tashkent, Republic of Uzbekistan, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  11
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
Authorized Representative
BUKHARA REGIONAL PRODUCTION 
  ENTERPRISE SUVOKOVA
By /s/ Rasul Ostanov
Authorized Representative
BUKHARA REGION
By /s/ Olim Jumaev
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
BVK shall carry out Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the PIP and the Operational Manual.
2.
BVK shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about June 30, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of Parts A.1, B.1 and C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
Page  12
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A.1, B.1 and C the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
3.
BVK and the Bukhara Region shall ensure the carrying out of the measures included in 
the Environmental Management Plan with respect to 
Parts A
.1, B.1 and C of the Project in a 
timely manner and shall include adequate information on the carrying out of such measures in the 
progress reports referred to in paragraph 1(e) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
4.
BVK shall take all measures necessary to enable the PCU shall to carry out its 
responsibilities relating to the implementation of the Project, and including the administration of 
the BVK Special Accounts, the Project accounting, financial management, Project reporting, 
auditing arrangements and procurement.
5.
BVK and the Bukhara Region shall: (a) review with the Association, not later than 
March 31, 2005, proposals for continued management of the water services of Bukhara upon 
completion of the Service Contract, with due consideration to various options for public and 
private sector management; and (b) based on the conclusions and recommendations of said 
review take appropriate measures regarding the management of the water services upon 
completion of the Service Contract.
6.
BVK and the Bukhara Region in conjunction with the Borrower shall: (a) ensure that 
technical and financial audits of the Operator’s performance will be carried out annually, the first 
such audit to be completed  by June 30, 2003 or such later date as may be agreed upon with the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association; and (b) thereafter, submit the results of said audits to the 
Association for its review.  
