Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10429-EC   Type: (PCR)
PANTON, W./ X31680 / T9 032/ OEDD1                       ReportNo. 10429
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
MARCH 17, 1992
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           -   Sucre (S/.)
US$1 at Appraisal (November, 1977)      -   SI. 25.0
US$1 at Re-Appraisal (December, 1983)  -   S/. 53.3
US$1 at Completion (June 30, 1989)      -   S/. 249.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
PAAF    Programa Agropecuario de Asistencia Financiera
Agricultural Credit Project Unit
BNF     Banco Nacional de Fomento
National Development Bank
CPT     Consejo Provincial de la Provincia Tungurahua
Provincial Government Office of Tungurahua Province
EEA     Empresa Elfctrica Ambato
Ambato Electric Utility Corporation
IEOS    Instituto E4uatoriano de Obras Sanitarias
Ecuadorian Institute for Sanitation Works
IERAC   Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizaci6n
Ecuadorian Land Reform and Settlement Institute
INERHI  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos HidrAulicos
Ecuadorian Water Resources Institute
INIAP   Iustituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias
National Agricultural Research Institute
JUNAPLA Junta Nacional de Planificaci6n y Coordinaci6n Econ6mica
National Planning Board
MAG     Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
IMBS    Hinisterio do Bienestar Social
Ministry of Social Welfare
M&E     Seguimiento y Evaluacifn
Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M     Operacion & Mantenimiento
Operation & Maintenance
PCR     Informe de Terminaci6n del Proyecto
Project Completion Report
PEU     Unidad de Ejecuci6n del Projecto
Project Executing Unit
SEDRI   Secretaria de Desarrollo Rural Integrado
Secretariat for Integrated Ruval Development



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
00hce of Dirctor-C.nwaI
Opelatons Evaluaitin
March 17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE 'XECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Ecuador - Tungurahua
Rural Development Prolect (Loan 1644-EC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Ecuador - Tungurahua Rural Development Project (Loan 1644-
EC)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface        . .       . .  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Sunmmary  . . . . . ...............  .... iii
PART I:     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .  . . .
Project Identity  . . . . . . . 0 . . ..* .. .          * - .     1
Background   .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  . . . . . . .  .
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Design and Organization . . . .  .  .  .      . . . .    3
Project Implementatior.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      . .    8
Project Results.                             . . .  .  .  .      14
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . .      ...                  15
Bank Performance  . ..    . .                                    15
Borrower Performance.                     . . .  .  .  .         16
Project Relationship  .       . . . . . . . ..       .  . .      18
Consulting Services .      ...   ...  ..........                 18
Project Documentation and Pata  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .  20
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
1.  Related Bank Loane  . . . . . . .  .  .    . . . . . . .   25
2.  Project Timetable . -..... ..... ... ..                     26
3. Loan Disbursement . .  t.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
4. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  27
5.  Project Costs and Financing ....  .       .  .  .   . . . .  .   .   28
6.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . .  .  .   . . . . . .   30
7.  Status of Covenants ......  ..  .         ..  .  ..  ..  .   .    35
8.  Use of Bank Resouras . . . .            o . . ..  . . .   . . . .s   37
9A. Fruit: Area Planted and Yields, Huachi Sub Area,
1974-1990 . . . . . . . . . . .        .            .   .    38
9B. Area Planted, Production and Yields of Maize and
Vegetables, Pelileo Sub-Area, 1974 and 1990 . . . . .       38
MAP: IBRD 13789R
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
Preface
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Tungurahua Rural
Development Project in Ecuador for which Loan 1644-EC in the amount of US$18
million was approved on December 21, 1978. The project was restructured in
June 1984 without changing the Loan amount. The Loan was closed on December
31, 1987, two years behind schedule, with disbursement applications being
accepted until June 30, 1988. The undisbursed balance of US$3.8 million was
cancelled.
2.        Parts I and III were prepared by the Agricultural Division of
Country Department IV of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office.
They are based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda. Parts I and III were sent to the Borrower for comment in March
1991 but no comments were received.
3.        Part II is the major part of a PCR prepared by the Ecuadorian
Ministry of Social Welfare. The Spanish original is held in LAC files.
Several other involved agencies of the Borrower also submitted completion
reports which can also be found in LAC files. In general, these reports
present a fairly selective account of the project experience, and none
attempts to derive lessons.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
Evaluation Summary
Background and Obiectives
1.        The Tungurahua Rural Development Project was the first Bank-financed
operation of its kind in Ecuador. The project sought to improve the socio-
economic conditions and production of about 16,000 families, primarily poor
smallholders (minifundistas), living in a rugged and densely-populated zone in
Tungurahua province, about 140 km south of Quito. The project assumed that,
with improved access to water, these farmers could readily move from
predominantly subsistence activities to the increased production of high-value
fruits and vegetables, b,th for domestic consumption and export.
2.        Project appraisal presen. 4 special difficulties with implications
for implementation.  The Bank decl'    to finance the marginally economic
Terremoto tunnel and its associated .ater conveyance infrastructure, even
though they were considered essential to project success. The Bank did not
wish %o create a precedert for uneconomic approaches to rural development (RD)
in Ecu dor, but clearly depended upon the tunnel and infrastructure's
completion to del4!ver the project's productive benefits, taking financial and
legal steps at project reappraisal in late 1983, to secure this (paras 15-21).
3.        Proiect Obiectives.  The project was designed to support the
Government of Ecuador's (GOE) RD policy of promoting the economic and social
development of the rural poor through expanded agricultural production. These
objectives were to be achieved through implementation of the following
components:
(a) rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation systems and on-farm
works, on 1,800 ha in the Quero-Ladrillos area serving about 2,300
farm families;
(b) on-farm works on 7,800 ha of irrigated land in the Huachi-Pelileo
area serving about 9,700 farm families;
(c) support services (agricultural extension, credit, storage and
marketing etc.) to improve agricultural production on the irrigated
area and on 18,000 ha of rainfed lands in the Quero and Chibuleo
area serving about 4,000 farm families;
(d)  construction and improveme't of rural roads and rural electrifica-
tion networks;
(e) provision of social services (potable water, latrines, health
facilities, community centers etc.); and



- iv -
(f) consultant services to assist the project unit and to carry out
studies for follow-up projects.
Implementation Experience
4.        The project was ambitious in scope and scale, and invo'.ved numerous
agencies for implementation, which took eight years and was troubled
throughout. The principal issues of implementation were: (a) chronic
shortages of counterpart finds caused by fluctuating political commitment to
RD, declining oil revenues, economic austerity programs, and the sheer numbers
of pe jects (Bank and other) under implementation or being prepared; and (b)
profound institutional deficiencies which were not addressed at their source,
and which the project's organizational arrangements could not overcome (paras
23-27). The following summarizes the component implementation experience:
(i)     Irritation Systems.  The overall irrigation system comp. t-o    a)
the headworks, a diversion dam and 11.6 km of tunnels to dei   L
water to 75% of the project area, all totally financed by the GOE;
and (b) the irrigation distribution network (main and secondary
canals and on-farm works) partly financed by the loan. Long delays
caused by counterpart funding shortages, inefficiency and technical
difficulties affected the headworks, dam and tunnels, which were not
completed until 1989. Similar problems affected the Bank-financed
irrigation elements, resulting in project reformulation in 1984, and
another major reallocation of loan funds in 1987 and increase in the
pari passu for civil works from 54% to 75% to achieve completion.
Nevertheless, a substantial part of the on-farm works remains to be
completed with limited options for financing (paras 32-34).
(ii)     Social Infrastructure.  Construction of social infrastructure was
badly delayed by bureaucratic wrangling, communal rivalry and
confused lines of command between Quito and provincial sub-offices,
even when financial resources were available and waiting to be used.
Impressive progress was finally made in 1986, coinciding with the
assumption of responsibility for RD by the Ministry of Social
Welfare (MBS) and dissolution of the Secretariat of Rural
Development (SEDRI). All social construction was completed by loan
closing (para 35).
(iii)     Credit.  The credit component for long and short-term investments
was unsuccessful, for the following reasons: (a) Banco Nacional de
Fomento (BNF) adopted a generally inflexible position on collateral
requirements for small farmers despite repeated assurances that it
was willing to liberalize; (b) some 60% of project beneficiaries
lacked proper title to land and no progress was made to resolve this
problem; (c) farmers were unwilling to borrow to finance on-farm
development, including irrigation ditches, until the main water
conveyance systems were completed, which did not occur until 1988;
and (d) SEDRI never acted on Bank urgings to promote the credit
program and hire experts to diagnose its constraints, including land
tenure (paras 36-37).
(iv)     ARricultural Extension.  The technical assistance component made
good progress, especially in establishing demonstration farms,
training courses for field technicians and productive relationships



between extensioai  workers and farmers.  Expansion was hindered,
however, by a public sector hiring freeze lasting the duration of
the project, counterpart funding shortages, and long delays in the
acquisition of vehicles and equipment. The situation improved
somewbat after 1986 but at loan closing this service still lacked
adequate capacity to assist farmers in the transition from rainfed
to irrigated agriculture.  Agricultural research for small farmers
made considerable progress, but the project failed to establish a
monitoring and evaluation system (paras 38-40).
(v)     Consultant Services and Training.  Loan funds for consultant
services and training were under-utilized.  The GOE adopted an
Inconsistent, legalistic and somewhat xenophobic attitude towards
hiring foreign experts, and believed it was preferable to undertake
training through bilateral aid programs, rather than borrow for it
(paras 41-4?).
Results
5.        Project objectives stayed the same throughout the implementation
period but the ambitious incremental production targets were unlikely to be
achieved until completion of the irrigation infrastructure and systems, which
were cential to project success.  Systematic irrigation has only recently
started in very limited areas (para 33). The fairly scant crop data available
fdicatr   substantial yield improvements in the project area for corn, fruits
and selected vegetables, resulting from technical assistance, and now that the
iunnel is complete it can be expected that production targets will eventually
b.( met, albeit with a major lag compared to original expectations.   It can
reasonably be assumed that social service construction (health posts, roads,
potable water, community centers etc.) and other works (roads, electrification
etc.) have had a beneficial impact on area farmers, and on the provincial
economy and standard of living (para 44).
6.        The recalculated ERR of 9.4Z reflects the delayed completion of the
tunnel (GOE-financed) and irrigation systems (including on-farm works), and
realization of full productive benefits. The project was undeniably a litany
of woes.  Nevertheless, the level of official commitment, the exceptional
farming skills of project beneficiaries, the observed actions by farmers to
take advantage of improved water availability, and the likelihood that they
will increasingly cultivate high value crops (fruit and vegetables) in an area
(Ambato) which is a major marketing center for those crops, underscores the
continued potential of this project.  Moreover, important, non-quantifiable
collateral benefits from the completion of road, electrification, sanitation
and health elements of the project should be taken into account.
Sustainabilitv
7.        The GOE has been urged by the Bank to maintain adequate
institutional arrangements and continuity of key staff to facilitate the
transition from implementation to operation, leading to a significant
production impact. Of critical importance are the creation of water users'
organizations; streamlining and funding of agricultural development
activities, e.g., extension, research, marketing and credit; and, training of
project personnel and farmers.  Much depends on GOE cormmitment.  There have
been promising developments, notably under the guidance of the current



- vi -
administration at MBS, and through the prudent retention of the excellent
former Project Manager to oversee systems operation and water distribution at
the Ecuadorian Water Resources Institute (INERHI). Overall, however, firm
institutional and financial arrangements are still awaited (paras 46-47).
Conclusiona and Lessons Learnt
8.        Lessons for the Bank.  This project encountered many problems during
implementation, but conscientious supervision, fortuitous changes in project
management and a flexible attitude towards proposed changes designed to
promote completion, permitted their resolution. The following lessons emerge
and, to a commendable extent, have already been incorporated in the design of
the new Rural Development Project in Ecuador (para 10 below):
(a) Few projects, whether complex or simple, can be implemented smoothly
under conditions of political change, fluctuating official commit-
ment and shortage of counterpart funds;
(b) Complex organizational arrangements cannot compensate for serious
institutional deficiencies. Efficient coordination and implementa-
tion derive from close analysis of the political and bureaucratic
environment and incentives of implementing agencies. This analysis
should be followed by a major effort to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the implementing agencies;
(c) Rural development should proceed within a programmatic context, and
must be planned with a high degree of beneficiary participation to
avoie over centralization of decision-making;
(d) While land re-distribution is generally beyond the scope of RD
projects, they should attempt to resolve land tenure problems,
especially if those problems bear directly on the success of
important loan elements, such as credit;
(e)  The low pari passu for civil works, which may have seemed reasonable
at appraisal when the full implications of declining oil revenues
were not yet apparent, rapidly became a burden on the GOE. The
Bank's share should have been increased at the 1984 reformulation,
instead of waiting until 1987. In principle, care should be
exercised in determining the appropriate pari Dassu;
(f) It is critically important that loan design incorporate, up front,
an operation and maintenance (O & M) plan for irrigation works in
order to ensure adequate cost recovery, and a monitoring and
evaluation (M & E) plan to follow project implementation and
productive activities.
(g) In hindsight, the decision not to finance construction of the tunnel
was clearly incorrect, and left the Bank without influence over the
central productive element of the project.
9.        Lessons for the Borrower.  The following lessons are evident, for
the Borrower:



- vii -
(a) Projects need to be selected with care, and analysed rigorously to
ensure the most economical approach to achieving their objectives;
(b) Credit lines for small fanners generally do not succeed where land
tenure problems are pervasive;
(c) The effective planning and execution of RD projects requires
commitment and leadership starting at the highest levels of
Government, backed by adequate funding. Further, the GOE needs to
develop the technical and managerial capabilities of project
agencies, improve the mechanisms for inter-agency coordination,
streamline legal and administrative procedures, and take full
advantage of technical assistance when provided for;
(d) Monitoring and evaluation is of central importance in orientating
project implementation and future planning;
(e)  Agricaltural extension can make the difference between subsistence
and surplus, and merits the full support of Government through
adequate staff, equipment and funding; and
(f) 0 and M arrangements are vital for cost recovery and the
sustainability of an investment.
10.       Lessons Acknowledged in New Proiect Design.  Fortunately, the new
Rural Development Project (PRONADER) in Ecuador has drawn carefully on the
lessons of Tungurahua, Esmeraldas and Puerto Ila-Chone, as well as RD projects
financed by other lenders (USAID, IDB etc.), and is well-placed to avoid
similar problems. The strong political commitment to RD demonstrated by the
present Government, ane MBS in particular, is manifested in significant
improvement in the performance of ongoing RD projects in Ecuador. Among the
important elements of PRONADER are the following: (a) a high level of cost-
sharing by the Bank (75%) to diminish dependence on counterpart funds; (b) a
comprehensive institutional development program for MBS and other executing
agencies; (c) carefully-selected project areas and activities (the latter
mostly pilot-scaled initially) based on comprehensive diagnostic studies; (d)
regularized land tenure affecting some 110,000 ha; (e) heavy emphasis on
beneficiary involvement from preparation through implementation; and (f)
time-bound establishment of a functioning project M & E unit.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR I
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
PART I:   PROJEC- RVJIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
1.   Projeut Name:  Rural Development I:  Tungurahua
Loan Number:   1644-EC
RVP Unit:      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department IV
Country:       Ecuador
Sector:        Agriculture
Subsector:     Irrigation
Backiround
2.       The Tungurahua Rural Development Project was the first Bank-financed
operation of its kind in Ecuador. The project sought to improve the output
and socio-economic conditions of about 16,000 families living in a rugged and
densely-populated zone in the Sierra province of Tungurahua, about 140 km
south of Quito. Most families in the project area were minifundistas farming
less than 2 hectares per family -- 60% in fact farmed less than one hectare.
The Bank believed that with improved access to water, these farmers could
readily move from predominantly subsistence activities to the increased
production of high-value fruits and vegetables, both for the domestic and
export markets.
3.       In the two decades up to the early 1970s, Ecuador's economy had grown
at about 5% per annum, mainly from the expansion of agricultural export crops,
chiefly cacao, coffee, bananas and sugar. The petroleum boom of 1972 and
four-fold oil price increase in 1973 made Ecuador the beneficiary of sudden
,id vary large export earnings, causing, inter alia, a rapid rise in per
.apita GNP, but the rate of expansion was uneven between sectors. The
agricultural sector lagged due to the government's lack of a coherent program
to promote its development.  Per capita agricultural and food output actually
fell, 7% and 2%, respectively, between 1970 and 1975.
4.       The project was first conceived in 1974 as a coffee rehabilitation
project, evolved into a complex, predominantly irrigation-based, rural
development operation during four years of preparation, and took eight years
to implement. The Government's broad developmental objectives in the
agricultural sector, as outlined in its National Development Plan for
1973-1977, were to increase agricultural production and improve economic and
social conditions in rural areas, to be supported by planned investments
totalling US$1.5 billion over the life of the Plan. The Government of Ecuador
(GOE) was aware, as was the Bank, of the finite opportunity offered by



-2-
petroleum reserves and believed it was imperative to address rural poverty
without delay.
5.       The dilemma was whether to focus on regional development in the
Costa, specifically the Guayas River Basin, or RD in the Sierra and for the
Bank in particular, how large a role it wanted to play in Ecuador. The Guayas
Basin had far greater potential, could be developed economically and rapidly,
and could play an important role in satisfying the country's escalating demar.d
for food, a priority which the Bank rtanked equally with poverty alleviation.
In contrast, the Sierra's poorer population and resource base, minima~l
opportunities to effect change and high potential investment cost per
beneficiary made it a far less attractive prospect for development. Projects
in the Sierra were likely to be small, high cost, and justified only f - high-
value crops, (for which proper marketing infrastructure did not then exist).
Care needed to be taken to avoid piecemeal development simply because funds
were available, and to ensure that investwents made were the most appropriate
use of resources. Also, at this time, major policy questions remained
unanswered concerning land titles, land taxes and user levies for public
investments.
6.       Faced with .nese issues, the GOE had great difficulty defining an
appropriate strategy, lacked experience in preparing and implementing RD
projects, and was constrained by formidable institutional deficiencies. The
latter situation was not helped by the proliferation of projects (Bank and
other) by the early 1980s, either under preparation or implementation.
Recurrent political instability, deteriorating econcAic conditions and
dwindling oil revenues undermined the GOE's coumitment to the project
reflected inter alis in prolonged counterpart tunding shortages (for all Bank
projects in Ecuador). The project was, neverthelass, completed, due to a
persistent effort on the part of the Bank to supervise and support it, and, in
the final stages of execution, to the leadership in RD provided by the
Ministry of Social Welfare (MBS), to which responsibility for RD was
transferred, from the Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development (SEDRI) in
1986. The project paved the way for the eventual achievement of its
objectives, which will depend most critically in future on adequate budgetary
support.
Proiect Objectives and Description
7.       The project was designed to support the Government's RD policy of
promoting the economic and social development of the rural poor through
expanded agricultural production. Since this was envisaged as the first of a
series of such projects, the participating institutions were expected to gain
valuable experience in carrying out similar irrigation and rainfed projects in
other parts of the Sierra.
8.       These objectives were to be achieved through implementation of the
following components:
,a) rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation systems and on-farm works,
on 1,800 ha in the Quero-Ladrillos area serving about 2,300 farm
families;
(b)  on-farm works on 7,800 ha of irrigated land in the Huachi-Pelileo
area serving about 9,700 farm families;



-3-
*(c) support services (including agricultural extension and credit, and
construction of storage and marketing facilities) to improve
agricultural production on the irrigated areas and on 18,000 ha of
rainfed lands in the Quero and Chibuleo area serving about 4,000 farm
families;
(d) construction and improvement of rural roads and rural electrification
networks;
(e) provision of social services comprising potable water, latrines and
health facilities, and community centers; and
(f) consultant services to assist the project unit and to carry out
studies for follow-up projects.
Project Design and Organization
9.      Proiect Conceot.  The conceptual foundation of this project lay in
thh. Bank's own RD model, i.e., a program of complementary agricultural,
infrastructural and social services designed to improve the economic wellbeing
of a target group of poor farmers. However, considerable time and effort was
expended to promote an understanding in Ecuador of its basic elements and
methodology. While the GOE acknowledged the need for RD, there was little
zeal or capacity to tackle a comprehensive national program, which would
entail linking agricultural production and rural poverty objectives under
diverse regional circumstances, at reasonable cost per beneficiary, and
against the controversial political backdrop of income re-distribution and
land reform. The Bank noted that there were many agencies working in rural
devolopment, for the most part uncoordinated, employing different methods,
handling funds of diverse origin, and sometimes in competition. More than a
planning effort was needed. The Bank's strategy therefore envisaged a
decentr-lized, regional approach, working through what the Bank (quite
erroneously) believed were comparatively efficient semi-autonomous agencies
such as the Ecuadorian Water Resources Institute (INERHI), coordinated by a
high-level, well-funded rural development unit.
10.     Innovative Asnects.  The project was an innovative approach to
alleviating rural poverty in Ecuador. Acknowledging that land resources in
the Sierra were tight and farmers skillful, it aimed for increased cropping
intensity and productivity to ensue from a combination of irrigation
improvements, technical assistance and credit. it focussed on the farming
system as a whole and not on specific crops and did not attempt to change
established land use or cropping patterns.1' It was assumed that increased
and reliable water supply would produce a spontaneous shift in the types of
crops grown. It also focussed not only on production, but on selling
available surplus through the creation of more orderly marketing arrangements
and facilities. The project's timing was appropriate given the acute need for
a systematic approach to RD and the likely availability of oil revenues to
1/ Efforts under the Milagro project (Cr. 425-EC) to induce small farmers to
switch from traditional, and comparitively high-value tree cropping systems,
to lower-value grains, legumes etc., met with their understandable resistance,
and considerable criticism from both within and outside the Bank.



-4-
finance such an effort, although time was of the essence since it is apparent
that the resource picture was already changing by the late 1970s.
11.     Project Justification.   The reasons for choosing this particular
area of Tungurahue Province for an irrigation project, however, are
questionable. From a social viewpoint, the choice was probably justified.
Farmers in the area had a tradition of irrigation, albeit deficient, and were
capable, entrepreneurial producers who fundamentally needed water. However,
the complex and expensive technical solutions mandated by the terrain made the
economic justification troublesome and contributed to the serious problems of
planning and implementat:ion. A smaller, gravity-irrigated pilot operation
elsewhere, (including within Tungurahua Province where more recent surveys
have shown no shortage of such opportunities), would have been more sensible,
cost-effective and straightforward to implement.Y'
12.     The record indicates that a Bank appraisal mission in September, 1975
rejected the feasibility work on a RD project identified and prepared by the
FAO/CP and INERHI. Two other sub-projects (Quero and Huachi-Pelileo) in the
same general area of Tungurahua Province were found to be at a more advanced
stage of preparation with the prospect of being ready for Board presentation
in FY77. The Bank recognized the institutional constraints on project
preparation in Ecuador, which technical assistance seemed to alleviate only
partially alleviate, and was not willing to risk the delays inherent in
studying alternatives from scratch. Even so, the planned preparation schedule
for the new sub-projects began to slip almost immediately and the final
project design, which combined the sub-projects into one operation, was not
ready for Board presentation until FY79.
13.     Proiect Scope and Scale.  Project design was ambitious in scope and
scale, adhering closely to the Bank's early vision of integrated rural
development through complex projects designed to address many problems in one
operation, an approach whose validity was questioned later on.- Also, there
had been only limited evaluation of the Bank's collective RD experience by
this time to flag the importance of institutional capacity, and therefore the
potential complications from multiple components and implementing agencies in
project design, especially in a country with virtually no experience of RD
projects, were not fully appreciated.
14.     Project scope was curtailed sharply following appraisal (November,
1977) when the Bank decided to omit financing construction of the marginally
economic Terremoto tunnel and its associated major irrigation infrastructure
(paras 16-22). The Bank wished to avoid setting a precedent in Ecuador for
uneconomic approaches to RD. Project scope was increased in 1984 when the
Bank undertook, at the request of the GOE (in June, 1980) to incorporate the
major irrigation distribution system (but not the Terremoto tunnel) in a
2/ The oil boom of the 1970s witnessed very ambitious Government investments
in infrastructure, including irrigation, drainage and flood control.
3/ However, despite detailed Bank analysils of its RD experience and fairly
consistent calls for simpler projects, complexity of -cope and scale remains
common. Project design has therefore attemptetd to mitigate complexity through
more sophisticated institutional improvement components, decentralized project
management and implementation etc.



reappraised and restructured operation resulting from counterpart funding
shortages and the need to speed up project implementation, which was stalled.
15.     Proiect Preparation.  Feasibility studies were prepared by a project
preparation unit within the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG), assisted by
individual consultants financed out of Technical Assistance Loan 1230-EC. The
main issues of preparation were institutional and included: (a) persistent
official indecisiveness over the form and direction of RD in Ecuador; (b) weak
managerial and technical manpower particularly at the higher levels; (c)
protracted delay in establishing a strong, high-level unit of experienced
staff to execute the project; (d) xenophobic attitude towards hiring foreign
experts complicated by serious disagreements between external consultants and
MAG over salary levels and contracts; (e) inability of the project
preparation unit to coordinate experts and technicians; and, (f) strained
relations between the Bank and INERHI due to its weak economic orientation and
reluctance to conduct the rigorous analysis required by the Bank. Further,
the Bank's negative experience with the Milagro Irrigation Project (Ln. 425-
EC), for which INERHI was the implementing agency, predisposed the
relationship to difficulties.
16.     Proiect Appraisal.  The central issue of appraisal was whether the
Bank should finance the marginaily economic Terremoto tunnel and its
associated infrastructure, as part of the irrigation component. Based on the
sub-projects identified in September, 1975, the proposed project was to
consist of two distinct areas -- the Huachi-Pelileo Irrigation District, and
the Quero dry-farming area. The former was served by a system of unlined
canals.  Traditifnal water rights favored farmers at the upper reach9s of the
canals while farmers at the lower end suffered frequent shortages. Further,
water losses in the distribution system were high due to leakages. The result
was considerable friction over water resources among area farmers. INERHI
proposed to construct an 11.5 km tunnel to conduct water from the Rio Ambato
into the district, with related major distribution facilities, at an estimated
cost of around US$3,000/ha.
17.     The GOE's feasibility study estimated the economic rate of return
(ERR) to be 15%, but the Bank's subsequent appraisal mission (November, 1977)
calculated the ERR to be negative, based on more realistic agricultural yield
projections, the high cost of the tunnel/infrastructure elements, and their
relatively small area of impact. The appraisal team was aware of (but had not
studied in detail) lower-cost alternativesA/, but INERHI was convinced that
the tunnel was the only feasible solution to guarantee the delivery of water,
and had already proceeded to start construction in late 1977, without advising
the Bank. The Bank's conclusions were: (a) to not finance the
tunnel/infrastructure because it was uneconomic; (b) to advise the GOE to
halt construction of the tunnel and examine alternative water supply systems;
and (c) to develop a two-phased project including construction in the second
4/ e.g. a canal to irrigate the lowest and dryest part of the district at a
cost of US$600 per ha; lining of existing canals to reduce filtration losses;
and, increasing the water supply through the existing distribution system.
However, evidence suggests that given the already long preparation time, and
the strong desire to present the project to the Board of Directors in FY78,
the prospect of examining alternatives at this late stage became unattractive.



phase of an alternative water supply system if it were found feasible by a
study included under the first phase.
18.     At the GOE's request, the irrigation component (including tunnel and
major infrastructure, i.e., the GOE's plan) was reappraised in February, 1978,
and found to have a low, but not negative, ERR of 8.1%. Based on the
mission's assessment, the Bank saw the main alternatives as being: (a) to
finance the project as a comprehensive RD scheme excluding the
tunnel/infrastructure; (b) to reduce even further the components eligible for
Bank financing by excluding families who stood to benefit directly from the
tunnel (GOE-constructed) from Bank-financed credit and social services; or
(c) to finance the entire project proposed by the GOE, including the tunnel
and infrastructure.
19.     The reappraisal mission remained opposed to the Bank financing the
tunnel, contending: (a) that there had been inadequate examination of
alternatives; (b) the risks of delays and cost overruns in construction were
substantial; and (c) Bank financing of the tunnel would encourage INERHI to
pursue other costly, low return projects setting poor precedents for future
RD.
20.     Strong counter-arguments were advanced in the Bank, in favour of
financing the entire package: (a) the operation, from an economic and
organizational viewpoint, was an "organic whole", and it would be undesirable
to have two independent projects, i.e., GOE and Bank, being carried out
simultaneously in a relatively small area; (b) the irrigation component, and
specifically the productivity increases which would result from guaranteed
access to water, were at the heart of this project. Construction of the
tunnel was so critical to the operation's success, that if the Bank did not
itself help finance it, assurances would have to be obtained that the GOE
would do so; (c) the ERR of the entire project, with tunnel, was an
acceptable 12.8%, without any value having been assigned to social benefits,
and with labor costs conservatively shadow-priced in a region of traditionally
high unemployment; (d) years of hydrological and geological investigations
would be necessary to explore alternative technical solutions, while the
Terremoto tunnel was known to be capable of assuring adequate water supply;
(e) Bank pressure had not deterred INERHI from building the tunnel and if the
Bank was involved in the tunnel/infrastructure elements, it might have greater
leverage in INERHI's choice of a lower-cost design for the irrigation
distribution system; and (f) Bank involvement in financing the tunnel would
enhance its prompt execution.
21.     Despite these arguments, the Bank decided against financing the
tunnel and infrastructure.  Nevertheless, it should be noted that all planning
and expectations concerning project works were based on the premise that the
Ecuadorians would complete the tunnel and infrastructure, in order to use the
Ambato River water.-1  Further, following project reappraisal and
5/  The SAR states:  (a) that the GOE was constructing an 11.6 km tunnel,
diversion structure, and main and secondary canals (para 2.12); (b) INERHI
was given responsibility for final design and construction of the major
irrigation works (para 5.09); (c) the Ambato River was the most important
water source for the project (Annex 1, Table 4); (d) that the 7,800 km area
(continued...)



- 7 -
restructuring in 1983/84, the Loan Agreement was amended to include assurances
that the Borrower would take all measures to comElete the Terremoto tunnel in
a manner and timetable satisfactory to the Bank.- The restructuring also
included the Bank's formal acceptance to finance the tunnel's associated water
distribution system, based on a request from the GOE in mid-1980 when
resources were becoming scarce.
22.     A Tentative Conclusion.  The Bank should have financed the tunnel and
its infrastructure from the beginning or dropped the project altogether. Both
elements were essential to project success and the Bank acknowledged this both
in the original SAR (footnote 5), and in the amended loan agreement following
project reappraisal in December, 1983. Standing back from financing the
tunnel as an uneconomic route to RD while at the same time counting on (and
subsequently urging) its completion to achieve -argeted productive and other
benefits, put the Bank in a contradictory position and complicated
implementation. Further, declining to finance the associated water supply
system, then having virtually no option but to do so several years later in
order to resuscitate project implementation (para 14), illustrates a similar
problem.
23.     Oraanization and Management.  Responsibility for project
implementation rested with MAG, through a Project Executing Unit (PEU) in the
project area, headed by a Project Director assisted by consultants for
administration and agricultural extension. A Coordinating Board would
supervise project implementation, made up of high-level GOE
representatives.- An Advisory Board would provide local representation and
facilitate regional coordination. The PEU would be responsible for overall
project administration through four operational units (rural development,
irrigation, legal affairs, and farmers' organizations) and four zonal units.
Its Planning, Programming and Budgeting Division would coordinate
participating agencies!/ and implement specific components. MAG would
provide extension staff to the PEU, and, through the project Agricultural
Credit Unit (PAAF), implement the credit component with participating banks.
5/(... continued)
would receive irrigation water through a tunnel and major distribution works
under completion (footnote, Annex 1, Table 39, ERR); and (e) that the ERR for
the Huachi-Pelileo area was calculated on the assumption that the tunnel and
related distribution works from the Ambato River to serve this area would be
completed, although it is also stated that the ERR was calculated by
discounting the benefits attributed to these works (paras 8.14 and 8.15).
61 Amended Loan Agreement, para 3.07.
7/ Minister of Agriculture and Livestock; Director of Agrarian Zone 7;
Governor of Tungurahua Province; President of the National Planning Board
(JUNAPLA); Executive Director of INERHI; Director of IERAC; Project Director
of the Agricultural Credit Project Unit in MAG.
8/ INERHI, the Ecuadorian Institute for Sanitary Works (IEOS), Ambato
Electric Utility Corporation (EEA), the Provincial Government Office of
Tungurahua Province (CPT), the Ecuadorian Land Reform and Settlement Institute
(IERAC), and the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP).



- 8 -
24.     These arrangements were far too complicated and did not work well.  A
complex organizational set-up and liberal provision of financing for
consultant services could not overcome fundamental institutional and
managerial deficiencies which the project did not address directly, or
substitute for genuine national commitment to RD. GOE policy statements on RD
needed to articulate specific requirements for inter-agency collaboration.!
Further, the political dimension to RD, beyond the Bank's control or
intervention, shifted repeatedly during the project's twelve year history,
with a direct impact on the behaviour of key agencies.
25.     While the relationship between the PEU and the two Boards
(Coordinating and Advisory) was cordial, sheer inexperience and inefficiency
sapped the effectiveness of arrangements for inter-agency coordination. The
PEU, like other units of its kind, had no natural position in the local
political and bureaucratic establishment, and lacked orientation due to mixed
policy signals on RD from the center. Moreover, even the most capable Project
Director could be replaced at any time (and was, repeatedly), resulting
usually in the delayed replacement of his team and a period of adjustment.
Technical staff were excluded from meetings of the Coordinating Board which
affected morale and staff turnover.
26.     In 1980, the GOE established SEDRI to plan and organize RD at the
national level. Its creation was prompted by a somewhat chaotic situation
which had evolved from 1975 when a number of international agencies became
active in Ecuador to promote and institutionalize the idea of integrated RD.
The result was a large number of projects, each with its own emphasis and
methodology, and whose responsibility was assigned to a variety of public
institutions. The progressive transfer of full responsibility (legal,
technical and administrative) for RD from MAG and other agencies, to SEDRI,
was not complete until 1984, with adverse effects on the project. It appears
that the delineation of responsibilities and obligations between SEDRI and
other project agencies, especially INERHI, was not clear, causing friction and
impaired performance. The incorporation of SEDRI into MBS in early 1986,
necessitated yet another major adjustment in project organization and
implementation.
27.     The lesson, with hindsight, is that efficient coordination and
implementation of RD does not necessarily spring from creating a
representative microcosm or from the Borrower's understanding of its role, but
from systematic analysis of the political and bureaucratic environment of
implementing agencies, and an assessment of the incentives and pressures
affecting their commitment and performance. This should be followed by
specific actions to correct institutional shortcomings.
Proiect Implementation
28.     Imolementation took eight years and was troubled throughout.  Chronic
shortages of counterpart funds caused by declining oil revenues, economic
austerity programs, fluctuating political commitment to RD and the sheer
9/ Richard L. J. Lacroix, Integrated Rural Development in Latin America,
World Bank Staff Working Papers, No. 716, 1985.



- 9 -
numbers of projects (Bank and other) under implementationl°', caused profound
delays. Project staff in Ecuador were slow to initiate activities and were
heavily dependent on the advice of experts, whose contracting encountered
legal and bureaucratic obstacles. Exceedingly slow implementation meant that
disbursements after 4.5 years were only US$2.0 million, or 14% of the loan
(versus the 86% estimated at appraisal).
29.     The Bank made exhaustive efforts to find solutions, including a major
project reformulation. The project was reappraised in December, 1983, and in
June, 1984, the Loan Agreement was amended to include: (a) financing for the
construction of the irrigation distribution system (previously financed by the
GOE); (b) establishing a Special Account for US$1.0 million; and (c)
extending the closing date for one year to December 31, 1986. The
reformulation entailed a significant redistribution of resources to civil
works (US$11.6 million or 51% of total project costs compared to the earlier
US$5.0 million or 28%) by decreasing Bank financing in all other categories,
with emphasis on the credit component which was doing poorly (paras 36-37).
The Chibuleo Area Development component was dropped because of ample available
funding from other sources. The loan amount remained the same (US$18.0
million). The Bank made a crucial mistake, however, especially in a country
like Ecuador, insisting initially on a low pari passu for the civil works
component, and then preserving it in the 1984 reformulation. The GOE's 46%
share, especially in an increasingly inflationary economy, was a burden
inhibiting the maintenance of a reasonable construction schedule for the
greater part of project execution, until the situation was rectified in 1987
(para 30).
30.     As a result of implementation delays and much higher local inflation
than forecast at appraisal, the project cost in local currency terms had risen
seven-fold by late 1986, imposing a considerable fiscal burden at a time of
budgetary austerity and when the project needed significant amounts of local
currency to pay contractors regularly. The Loan Agreement was, accordingly,
amended again in September, 1987. The loan Special Account was increased to
US$2.0 million to permit the timely payment of contractors, and the Bank's
share of financing for civil works was raised from 54% to 75Z (the Borrower
had requested 90%) retroactive to January 1, 1986.
31.     Component Implementation.  By late 1986, a certain "battle fatigue"
had set in due to the unremitting need to urge action on a broad slate of
issues. Discussion was initiated in the Bank to close down problem projects,
which included all three RD operations in Ecuador."' Nevertheless, the
Tungurahua project (and its two counterparts) was sustained and its closing
date extended to December 31, 1987 due to the Bank's conviction that its
original objectives were valid, and that the GOE was sincere in its efforts to
complete it. The following summarizes the implementation experience of
specific components.
10/ By late 1981, SEDRI had 17 RD projects (of which three were Bank-
financed) under its jurisdiction.
II/ Tungurahua (Ln. 1644-EC), Esmeraldas (Ln. 2044-EC) and Puerto Ila-Chone
(Ln.1991-EC).



- 10 -
32.     Irrigation Systems.  The overall irrigation system comprised:  (a)
the headworks, a diversion dam, and 11.6 km of tunnels to deliver water to 75%
of the project area, all of which were totally financed by the GOE; and (b)
the irrigation distribution network (main and secondary canals and on-farm
works) partly financed by the loan. Unexpected problems were encountered
during tunnel construction with soft terrain and water percolation which
stopped construction in mid-1984 with only 1.3 km remaining to complete.
INERHI and the contractor were unable to work out a solution because a major
change in design was needed and the contractor lacked the machinery and
technical capacity to do the job. It took INERHI some 20 months to negotiate
termination of the contract and to complete studies for a new tunnel lining
structure and drainage system. A new contract was signed in July, 1987 and the
tunnel section completed in 1989, along with the headworks and dam.
33.     Construction of the Bank-financed irrigation distribution network
started in December, 1985 and initial progress was good. However, in late
1986, with construction 40% complete, contractors ceased work to protest
overdue GOE payments (from counterpart funds) of US$2.2 million. The arrears
were settled from a special loan to MBS by the Ecuadorian Development Bank
(BEDE) and work resumed in early 1987. Further, the Loan Agreement was
amended in September, 1987 to increase the percentage of Bank financing for
civil works from 54% to 75Z to speed completion.
34.     Main and secondary canals were 100% complete in 1989.  Progress on
the tertiary system (on-farm works) differed markedly between the Mocha-Quero-
Ladrillos and the Ambato-Huachi-Pelileo sectors, as follows:
(a)   The Mocha-Quero-Ladrillos sector of about 2,000 ha was planned to
become operational in July, 1988, but a strong farmer group,
obtaining water through an antiquated and deficient canal network,
sabotaged the new system, which had to be recontructed and undergo
legal proceedings. Recent information obtained by a Bank consultant
who informally toured the Tungurahua project area in November, 1991,
suggests this sector is now operational and under crops.
(b)   In the Ambato-Huachi-Pelileo sector served by the tunnel, the
original area to be irrigated (7800 ha) was cut back to 4,450 ha
(para 44). The consultant reported that on-farm development is
proceeding very slowly with the consequence that water is flowing
through the main canals largely unused. During project execution
farmers were unwilling to commit themselves to financing on-farm
construction prior to the completion of the main water conveyance
systems, including the tunnel. Further, credit for on-farm works
remained limited to those farmers with clear title, meaning that such
works were unlikely to be completed as planned unless the land tenure
problem received greater attention (para. 36). By early 1991, only
900 ha had commenced irrigation. By the end of 1991, construction of
on-farm canals was proceeding on a further 450 ha under a grant
system whereby MBS provided the materials and the farmers, the labor.
There has apparently been some discussion between MBS and BNF
concerning credit for these farmers to finish on-farm works, using
the completed primary irrigation works as a form of collective
guarantee in place of the traditional land title. However, the
common aversion of such farmers to formal borrowing coupled with the
size of the loans required--from US$500 to US$700 per hectare for a



- 11 -
family at the subsistence level, makes Lt morti likely that on-farm
works will continue to be done under the grant system and at a modest
pace.
35.     Social Infrastructure.  Construction of important elements of the
social infrastructure (which included health posts, rural roads, community
centers, po*able water supply, sanitation, and electrification) were badly
delayed by bureaucratic wrangling, communal rivalry, and confused lines of
command between Quito and provincial sub-offices, even when financial
resources were available and waiting to be used. Health post construction was
held up by complex procedures involving donated land; the rural roads
component had only one engineer in charge; and there was a scarcity of cement
and construction iron to build structures even when the paperwork was cleared.
The strong political position of SEDRI's head seemed unable to affect events
(possibly because the will was lacking). By mid 1986, however, impressive
progress had finally been made (in some cases exceeding targets e.g., improved
roads, potable water systems, latrines and community centers) and all social
construction was completed by loan closing.
36.     Credit.  The loan initially allocated US$4.5 million, subsequently
reduced to US$2.6 million in 1984, and US$1.1 million in 1987, for short and
long-term investment credit to project beneficiaries. On-farm works were to
be financed primarily by these means. The component was unsuccessful. The
following issues affected credit uptake: (a) the National Development Bank
(BNF) adopted a generally inflexible position concerning collateral and
paperwork requirements for loans to small farmers (citing legal restrictions
imposed from Quito) and repeated undertakings to liberalize its position never
materialized."' Further, its relationship with the project's Agricultural
Credit Unit was uncooperative; (b) some 60% of project beneficiaries lacked
clear title to land, and virtually no progress occurred to resolve this
problem; (c) farmers were unwilling to borrow to finance on-farm development
until the main water conveyance systems were completed, which did not occur
until 1988 and later; evidence also suggests that they were averse to
borrowing per se (para. 34); (d) SEDRI took no action to implement the Bank's
repeated advice that the credit program be promoted heavily, and that farm
credit and legal specialists be hired to diagnose and offer solutions to
credit impediments, including land tenure problems; and (e) counterpart
funding shortages impacted heavily on BNF's credit availability, but a US$54
million IDB loan in 1983 to the BNF did not, apparently, outweigh what was
clearly an institutional aversion to lending to small farmers.i13 It is
important to note that titling problems and BNF resistance to lending to
project beneficiaries under Ln.1644-EC, mirrored the experience with the
12/ The Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part A, states: "Participating lenders
will employ their normal criteria of creditworthiness in selecting sub-
borrowers for financing under Part A of the project." In the circumstances
(lack of clear title) this may have worked against project beneficiaries.
13/  The MAG completion report on its implementation experience suggests that
the rates of interest on loan funds for the credit component were higher than
preferential rates offered by BNF for similar lines of credit to small
farmers, and this deterred their borrowing. It should be noted that none of
the Bank's supervision reports cites this as a reason for poor credit uptake.



- 12 -
Milagro project, whose credit component failed for these same reasons.
Project design should have referred to Milagro and addressed these issues.
37.     The 1984 restructuring of the project caused a shift in investment
focus to civil works at the expense of the credit component, resources for
whicii were subsequently provided mostly from the First and Second Agricultural
Credit Projects (ACP -- Loans 1458-EC and 2752-EC). Applications were
approved for 391 sub-loans totalling some US$614,000, from Ln. 1644-EC funds.
It is not known how many Tungurahua beneficiaries obtained credit from the
abovementioned ACPs.
38.     Agricultural Extension.  The technical assistance component made good
progress, especially in setting up demonstration farms (Fincas Asesoradas),
training courses for field technicians, and in developing productive
relationships between extension workers and farmers. By late 1983, field
personnel totalled 22 technicians with university training (10 agronomists, 3
veterinarians, 5 agronomic engineers and 4 social workers) supporting
agricultural and livestock production, marketing and credit. The morale and
vigor of extension staff were evident despite many constraints. Much-needed
expansion was prevented by long delays in the purchase of four-wheel drive
vehicles, and a general freeze on additional hiring in the public sector
(lasting through loan closing) which left existing extensionists increasingly
overloaded. Further, extensionists' work with the very small farmers (those
with one hectare or less -- 60% of the target group), was frustrated by their
lack of title and inability to borrow. By 1986, extension was faltering due
to staff reductions (from 22 to 14) and reduced number of vehicles (14 to 10)
the latter due to their being seconded for other uses, including by SEDRI
staff. The Bank could only stress repeatedly the importance of adequate staff
and equipment. SEDRI claimed to be able to override the hiring freeze and
kept promising to bolster extension capacity, but nothing happened. The
incorporation of SEDRI into MBS saw a distinct improvement in official support
for extension, but at loan closing, this service still lacked adequate
capacity to assist farmers in the transition from rainfed to irrigated
agriculture.
39.     The program reached about 60% of target families and attended about
32,000 ha of which 30% were permanent crops, 45% annual crops, 17% pastures
and 8% re-forestation areas. The limited data available from MAG show quite
dramatic increases in yields of selected fruits, corn and vegetables in the
Huachi and Pelileo sub-areas, between 1974 and 1990 (Part III, Tables 9(A) and
(B)).
40.     In late 1981, the National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP)
signed a contract with MAG to implement 20 agricultural trials designed to
introduce new varieties of corn, onions and potatoes, and agricultural
practices which could increase yields. INIAP had already concluded
preliminary experiments at its Santa Catalina Station, and was conducting
replication trials on small farm plots in the project area. Only limited
production and yield data is available from the project area, principally
because a M & E system was never established. Under a UNDP/FAO project, SEDRI
designed a general methodology for such a system to follow the 17 RD projects
under its purview, and subsequently, a specific M and E methodology was
developed for the Tungurahua operation, the latter approved by the Bank.
SEDRI expressed enthusiasm to establish an operating M & E system, but did not
follow through; nor did its successor, MBS.



- 13 -
41.     Consultant Services and Traininx.    The project was to finance 90
man-months of internationally recruited consultant services, including a
project administrator, an agricultural engineer, an agricultural extension
expert, a horticultural and fruit expert, and various specialists to assist
the PEU in the preparation of the monitoring and evaluation system, marketing,
agricultural engineering and social services. Their foreign sourcing was
stated clearly in the SAR (para 4.3.4) but not specified in the Loan Agreement.
In practice, the GOE leaned towards local expertise e.g., the project
administrator and extension specialist, adopting an inconsistent, legalistic,
and xenophobic position towards foreign experts which was ultimately self-
defeating. Most of the limited hiring of consultants occurred in tae early
years of the project. In 1985, SEDRI sought Bank approval to hire an
extensive list of specialists, largely as a result of Bank urging, but
evidence suggests nothing occurred. Again, the Milagro project experience
should have been instructional. Funds for foreign experts were never used,
and for the same reasons, yet the design of Tn.1644-EC placed even greater
emphasis than Milagro on the benefits of foreign expertise to project
imnlementation. 14/
42.     The training program (US$0.2 million of the loan) for PEU staff,
extension technicians and farmers was to be assigned under a five-year
contract to the Instituto Interamericano de Ciencias Agricolas (IICA), but was
cancelled by the new secretary of SEDRI ir 1981 on the grounds that it was
preferable for Ecuador to obtain training free through bilateral aid, than to
borrow for it. The Bank should have required the definition of specific
training programs and their beneficiaries, as a condition of negotiations,
given the weak technical and planning capacity evident from the earliest
stages of project preparation.
43.     Proiect Risk Assessment.  Project risk assessment focussed,
correctly, on the high likelihood of organizational and managerial problems
but there was no attempt to address them at their source, that is, within the
institutions themselves. Instead, complex coordination arrangements with the
emphasis on high-level representation from involved agencies, were expected to
facilitate implementation. Other likely risks were downplayed or not
mentioned. For example: (a) the probability of cost overruns on irrigation
works was described as low, whereas in practice, cost escalation became an
immedia i problem on a range of project civil works; (b) no mention is made of
the potential shortage of counterpart funds, whereas it was clear by 1978 that
oil revenues were declining, IJ and the ecui,omy faltering; (c) the strong
likelihood of delays in delivering water to beneficiaries and hence achieving
14/   The file record does not establish the necessity for foreign, as opposed
to local, expertise, and it is arguable that Ecuadorian resistance was
justified. OED analysis of this issue concludes: "I Expatriate technical
assistance is a poor substitute in the long run for local implementation
capacity, even if project targets and scope must be reduced to match local
capabilities, and some efficiency trade-offs must be carried. The emphasis
must shift to human capital development rather than swift physical
implementation."
15/ In mid-1978, the Ecuadorian Minister of Finance made a personal appeal to
the Bank to include the tunnel/infrastructure in Bank financing, citing
strained public finances due to dwindling petroleum revenues.



- 14 -
planned productivity and income benefits are not mentioned; and (d) the
widespread lack of clear title among targeted beneficiaries, which was known
and acknowledged in the SAR, was a serious obstacle to the credit component
and completion of on-farm irrigation works, but was not included in the risk
assessment.
Project Results
44.     Project objectives stayed the same throughout implementation but
their achievement still remains more potential than actual, principally due to
the delayed completion of irrigation infrastructure and systems which were
central to project success. Further, the original area to be irrigated
through the tunnel and canal system was 7,800 ha, but MBS reports that this
has been reduced substantially to 4,450 ha. The reasons given are twofold:
(a) construction of the Ambato Canal was prevented by urban expansion of
Ambato City encroaching on the canal site; and (b) the Huasipamba canal could
not be built due to insufficient resources. At the tlme of writing it cannot
be determined whether these account for the substantial reduction in area to
be irrigated.161 Physical confirmation of the sometimes conflicting
estimates of progress provided by MBS and INERHI is difficult, due to the
terrain in the project area. Systematic irrigation has only recently started
in limited areas. Crop results based on improved access to water are not yet
available.  Monitoring and evaluation activities were never developed as
envisaged in the SAR (para 9.01 (n)) and Loan Agreement (Section 3.05 (d)).
It can reasonably be assumed that social service construction (health post;;,
potable water, community centers etc) as well as marketing facilities,
electrification and roads have had a beneficial impact on area farmers, and on
the provincial economy and standard of living, but their adequate funding,
staffing and maintenance in the future, will be crucial.
45.     Proiect Economic Rate of Return.  The re-estimated rate of return on
this project is 9.4% over 40 years, (compared to 21% under the original
version, and 19% under the re-appraised operation in 1988) and includes the
full cost of the tunnel. The methodology used for recalculating the rate of
return essentially updates that of the 1983 Bank re-appraisal, using actual
costs of the 1984-89 period of implementation. Further details regarding
cost, benefit and phasing assumptions are set out in Part III, Table 6B.-7
These assumptions are necessarily speculative, being based on future estimates
which the lack of monitoring and evaluation makes it difficult to confirm.
The project history relates many difficulties. However, periodic inspections
of the project area since loan closing (the most recent being November, 1991)
continue to support its high potential, based on: (a) the exceptional farming
skills of the population; (b) farmers' experience with cash crops; (c) the
likelihood that a high proportion of the area will evolve into fruit and
vegetable cultivation if completion of on-farm works can be facilitated; and
16/ Construction of the Ambato and Huasipamba canals was considered by the
Bank to be essential to the full success of the irrigable area, but was
deferred until 1987 or after, and not included.
17/ Supervision Report including project re-appraisal, December 16, 1983.



- 15 -
(d) Ambato being a major fruit marketing center in Ecuador. The key is
reliable water supplies, for which completion of on-farm works is essential.
Project Sustainability
46.     Successive Bank supervision missions, including several since project
closing, have urged the Ecuadorians to ensure adequate institutional
arrangements and continuity of key staff to facilitate the transition from
implementation to operation, leading to a significant production impact. A
draft agreement between INERHI and MBS was drawn up in late 1988, including:
(a) improved water management; (b) the organization of water users'
associations; (c) streamlining agricultural development actions e.g.,
extension, research, marketing and credit; and (d) training of project
personnel and farmers. It appears that this agreement was never signed. A
mission in December, 1990 urged that it be updated and finalized, but the
result is not known.
47.     Given the history of funding problems under this project, the outlook
for recurrent budget support of extension, credit, and infrastructure
including roads, is uncertain. Much depends on continued GOE commitment.
There have been promising developments, notably under the guidance of the
current administration at MBS. Further, INERHI has made progress in the
organization of water user associations for 0 & M of some secondary and
tertiary irrigation systems. Overall, however, firm institutional and
financial arrangements are still awaited.
Bank Performance
48.     The Bank's primary concern during the preparation of this project was
to ensure that it was appropriate to Ecuadorian needs, economical and
understood by the GOE. However, the somewhat hasty adoption of an alternative
project outline in mid-1975 unwittingly derailed these intentions, resulting
in a complex, primarily irrigation-oriented operation which presented special
problems of appraisal and implementation, and was not well understood by the
Ecuadorians. The lessons of the Milagro operation were only partly and
4mperfectly applied, and the project seems to have lacked a programmatic
context despite all the effort by the Bank from 1975 on, to promote a
comprehensive vision of RD within the Ecuadorian Government.
49.     Supervision.  The project required intense supervision and follow-up
from the outset due to the many difficulties affecting execution (although
resources used for supervision were within divisional norms, and missions were
generally used to supervise several other ongoing agricultural operations in
the country). The Bank's performance was commendable, presenting timely,
practical solutions to maintain project momentum. Unfortunately, however,
many Bank recommendations concerning fundamental aspects of the project were
ignored by SEDRI and INERHI, and this tendency should have encountered a much
sterner response from the Bank. Persistent GOE tardiness in submission of
audits resulted in the Bank suspending temporarily the processing of SOEs for
disbursement in late 1986, but this was the only disciplinary action taken
throughout project implementation.
50.     Lessons Learnt.  The following lessons emerge from this project and,
to a considerable extent, h-tve already been incorporated in the design of a
proposed new RD project in Ecuador (para 56):



- 16 -
(a)   The project witnessed several changes of Government with attendant
turnover of ministerial officials and their teams, and reordered
priorities, manifested in weak commitment to RD and constant
shortages of counterpart funds. Under such conditions, few projects,
whether complex or simple, can be implemented smoothly;
(b)   Rural development must proceed within a programmatic context and mtlst
be planned with a high degree of beneficiary participation to avoid
over centralization of decision-making;
(c)   While land re-distribution is generally beyond the scope of RD
projects, such projects should attempt to resolve land tenure
problems, especially if they bear directly on the success of
important elements of a loan, such as credit. The Bank should have
required a time-bound plan of action to tackle land tenure
constraints in the project area;
(d)   Complex organizational arrangements cannot compensate for serious
institutional deficiencies. Efficient coordination and
implementation derive from close analysis of the political and
bureaucratic environment and incentives of implementing agencies.
This analysis should be followed by a major effort to strengthen
their institutional capacity;
(e)   The low pari-passu for civil works, which may have seemed reasonable
at appraisal when the full implications of declining oil revenues
were not yet apparent, rapidly became a burden on the Ecuadorians.
The Bank's share should have been increased at the reformulation in
1984, instead of waiting until 1987. In principle, care should be
exercised in determining the appropriate pari passu;
(f)   It is critically important that loan design incorporate, up front, an
0 & M plan for irrigation systems to ensure adequate cost recovery,
and a M & E plan to follow project implementation and productive
activities.
(g)   In hindsight, the decision not to finance construction of the tunnel
was clearly incorrect, and left the Bank without influence over the
central productive element of the project.
Borrower Performance
51.     The GOE lacked the sustained commitment, resources and institutional
capacity to prepare and implement the project efficiently. This project broke
new ground in Ecuador and therefore bureaucratic inefficiencies, technical
problems and delays were inevitable, at least in the initial years.
Subsequently, as oil revenues declined and the economy deteriorated,
competition for scarce resources complicated attempts to implement the many
developmental projects (agricultural and other) which the GOE had taken on
during better times. Liberal provision of technical assistance (under
Technical Assistance Ln. 1230-EC) had only modest effects on project
preparation, and during execution (under the specific component) was not
adequately employed. Bureaucratic and legal impediments to retaining foreign
experts were complicated by xenophobia. The Ecuadorians, especially MAG,



-17 -
perceived the project as difficult and reacted to activities as
straightforward as advertising notices of intent to procure equipment, with
low confidence and long delays.
52.     The creation of SEDRI in late 1980 was potentially a prime
opportunity to coalesce fragmented RD efforts within an independent
institution with broad authority to coordinate the public sectoral
institutions in the preparation and implementation of an RD program. It
failed completely due to poor leadership, and its own newness and consequent
lack of political influence in the bureaucracy. SEDRI used its financial
powe: unconstructively, frustrating the planned activities of project agencies
by witholding approval of their budgets and allocating funds with unnecessary
stringency. SEDRI failed repeatedly to honor undertakings to the Bank in many
areas including the flow of counterpart funds, the land tenure/credit problem,
proper staffing of the extension service, implementation of M and E, and the
hiring of exr rts.
53.     Bureaucratic inertia and extreme delays at the central level
characterised INERHI's construction of the irrigation infrastruccure, although
its local performance in the later period of implementation was better, due to
an excellent Project Manager, who has, fortunately, been kept on to oversee
systems operation and water distribution. INERHI has, so far, been unable to
rationalize public sector involvement in the irrigation sub-sector as
envisaged in the 1972 Water Law, and its ineptitude has encouraged the entry
of more vigorous regional institutions and, more recently, the RD
subsecretariat of MBS, which has shown strong leadership.
54.     BNF's performance, detailed in earlier paras, was disappointing but
not surprising, given the previous experience with the Milagro Project. The
Bank must accept partial responsibility for the lack of progress under the
credit component, for not addressing the titling problem in project design.
Few banks are willing, in practice, to compromise their stance on secure
tenure as collateral for loans to small farmers. The MBS inherited
reaponsibility for RD in a climate of economic deterioration, considerable
scepticism about its capacity to handle its new role, and at a critical point
in project implementation. Confidence was restored, however, by the
appointment of a dynamic new Minister in 1988, and MBS has demonstrated a
committed and vigorous approach to RD.
55.     Lessons of Experience for the Borrower.  Several important lessons
for the Borrower are evident: (a) projects need to be selected with care, and
analysed rigorously to ensure the most economical approach to achieving their
objectives; (b) credit lines for small farmers generally do nct succeed where
land tenure problems are pervasive; (c) the effective planning and execution
of RD projects requires commitment and leadership starting at the highest
levels of Government, backed by adequate funding; (d) M & E is of pivotal
importance in orientating project implementation and future planning; (e)
institutional deficiencies played havoc with every aspect of project
implementation. The GOE should develop the technical and managerial
capabilities of agency staff, improve the mechanisms for inter-agency
coordination, streamline legal and administrative procedures and take full
advantage of technical assistance when provided for; (f) agricultural
extension can make the difference between subsistence and surplus and merits
the full support of Government through adequate staff and equipment; and (.r)



- 18 -
operation and maintenance (O and M) arrangements are a vital tool for cost
recovery and the preservation of investment value.
56.     Lessons Acknowledged in New Project Design.  Fortunately, the new
Rural Development Project (PRONADER) in Ecuador (Ln. 3390-EC) has drawn
carefully anc creatively on the specific experiences of Tungurahua, Esmeraldas
and Puerto Ila-Chone, as well as RD projects financed by other lenders (USAID,
IDB, etc.) and is therefore well-placed to avoid similar problems. Of primary
importance is the strong political commitment to RD and poverty alleviation
demonstrated by the present Government, and in particular MBS, manifested in
significant improvement in the performance of ongoing RD projects in Ecuador.
Among the important elements of PRONADER are the following: (a) a high level
of cost-sharing by the Bank (75X) to diminish dependence on counterpart funds;
(b) a comprehensive institutional development program for MBS and other
executing agencies including a prepared set of institutional activities; (c)
carefully-selected project areas and activities (the latter mostly pilot-
scaled in the first instance) based on comprehensive diagnostic studies; (d)
regularized land tenure and planned issuance of 10,000 new titles in project
areas, affecting about 110,000 ha; (e) heavy emphasis on beneficiary
involvement in the identification of problems and definition of solutions, for
incorporation in project design, and participation of beneficiary
organizations and NGOs in project decision-making at all levels during
implementation; and (f) time-bound establishment of a functioning project M &
E unit.
Proiect Relationship
57.     The Bank maintained a constructive relationship with the Borrower
throughout the long years of project execution and despite changes in
government, agency and project leadership. The Bank's flexibility and
goodwill were tested repeatedly, especially in its dealings with SEDRI,
INERHI, and BNF. This willingness on the Bank's part to endure poor
performance was, in fact, the major weakness in the relationship. Evidence
suggests a firmer stance, as taken by the Bank in early 1987 when the project
was slated for possible closure, produced rapid and substantial actions by the
Borrower to improve execution, (although this was after seven years of delay,
and coincided with the removal of SEDRI as principal agency for RD).
58.     Specific information on inter-agency relationships in Ecuador is
limited. SEDRI sought to control RD by curtailing the activities of sector
agencies, especially HAG, through its budget approval prerogative. BNF's
dealings with the PAAF were acrimonious and unproductive. INERHI's relations
with MBS, which took over the management of RD in late 1986, were extremely
poor, with direct effects on the schedule for civil works completion and the
solvency of contractors. This relationship improved greatly in 1988 following
the appointment of the new Minister of MBS under the change of Government.
Consulting Services.
59.     Only a modest percentage of the amount allocated to technical
assistance was ever used, indicative of the official attitude and obstacles to
hiring foreign experts. Contractors' performance was generally satisfactory,
although their ability to maintain a schedule was frequently impeded by
counterpart funding shortages and a lack of technical sophistication.



- 19 -
Further, grossly inefficient processing of contractors' SOEs by INERHI, MBS
and the Central Bank resulted in the bankruptcy of several firms.
Prolect Documentation and Data.
60.     The legal agreements for this project were well-formulated but
Borrower compliance with loan covenants, which was clearly tied to a schedule
where relevant, was inconsistent and often grossly delayed. Compliance with
several major covenants including counterpart funding for the credit
component, arrangements for operation and maintenance, and investment cost
recovery, was not achieved. Overall, covenant compliance was unsatisfactory
(see Part III, Table 7). The SAR was detailed and comprehensive but generally
not used as a working document. Data relevant to the preparation of the PCR
vere, in general, readily available.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PPOJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE
SUBSECRETARIAT OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
TUNGURAHUA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture                              IBRD Loan Agreement 1644-EC
Total expenditures financed out of the proceeds of Loan 1644-EC in US dollars.
Further to the report prepared upon the closing of World Bank Loan 1644-
EC for the Tungurahua Integrated Rural Development Project and sent under
cover of Oficio No. 261-SDR dated September 14, 1989, please find below a
status report on actual loan implementation and target achievement, broken
down by category of items financed and by executing agency.
CATEGORY NO. AND ITEM        ALLOCATION         DISBURSEMENT        APPLICATION
1 Agricultural credit         1,100,000           613,846.46             56%
2 Civil works                13,600,000        11,645,514.42             86Z
3 Vehicles and equipment      1,500,000         1,191,995.62             80%
4 Salaries                      500,000           305,307.62             612
5 Consultant services and
training                      500,000           427,305.57             85%
6 Unallocated                 2,000,000                   ---              OZ
TOTAL:    18,000,000        14,131,969.79
100%                  79%
This includes allocation of the special account.
PRIMARY PROBLEMS AFFECTING LOAN APPLICATION
The following are some of the constraints that hindered full
utilization of the loan:
1.    CREDIT COMPONENT: (a)   The interest rates negotiated under the loan were
higher than the preferential rates charged by the
National Development Bank (BNF) for similar lines
targeted at small and medium farmers.



- 21 -
(b)   The Ambato branch of BNF had to follow tortuous
procedures to obtain subloan approval from Quito,
because of its lack of legal authority, as
expressly indicated in the approved Project and
Credit Regulations documents.
(c)   The delay in the construction and operation of
irrigation cLaals precluded any increase in the
demand for credit, because of the lack of water
needed to increase productivity and improve
production systems.
2.    CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT:
(a)   The delay in the payment of the accounts for work
already completed, and also the payment of price
adjustments, based on final indices, made it
impossible to present any requests for
disbursements before the loan closure deadline
i.e., July 31, 1988.
(c)   (sic]  The failure to complete and submit expense
statements in good time for the construction of
the environmental sanitation works (water supply,
latrines, batteries, piping) for which IEOS was
responsible, partially limited application of the
loan, as did the delay in the final payment of
the price adjustments for the construction of the
bridge over the Rio Pachanlica and the paving of
roads, for which the Project Executing Unit was
responsible.
3.    VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
(a)   Failure to commit the funds in good time for the
procurement of several pieces of equipment for
farmer training and irrigation, together with
vehicle spare parts and accessories duly approved
by the Bank, resulted in the Project Executing
Unit canceling the use of funds in this category.
4.    SALARIES:          (a)   Juridical and legal factors made it impossible to
pay the Executing Unit staff the increased
salaries from 1986 onwards, which explains why
the amount allocated was not disbursed.
5.    UNALLOCATED:       (a)   Given the (need for the] completion of certain
actions and the tight scheduling of work prompted
by delays in the execution of project components
by participating agencies, it proved impossible
to use the funds for the development of the
Chibuleo area, as originally planned.



- 22 -
TARGETS AND CURRENT STATUS BY COMPONENT AND AGENCY
The attached tables summarize the targets set for each and every
action undertaken, those accomplished and the percentages of implementation
achieved by the different participating agencies responsible for the components
identified in the Loan and Project documents governing project implementation.
These show that in certain components (parts) the targets were exceeded or that
additional activities not originally included in the Schedule containing the
breakdown of the Loan by category, work and activity were carried out, these
activities being needed in order to put the works contained in the original
plans into service or operation.
Thanks to the additional financing provided by the World Bank, all
electrification needs were met, with the areas of Quero and Pelileo being fully
served and household connections numbering 6,030.
Agricultural extension and technical assistance services exceeded
the limits set to such ar. extent that farmers in the project area are now
virtually self-sufficient in terms of crop management; they are awaiting the
entry into operation of the large network of irrigation canals and ditches
built and rehabilitated so that, by using the methods taught under the
technology transfer component, they can increase productivity, meet both
domestic and external demand or Ecuador's staple foods and improve the living
conditions of the population, these being the priority objectives of this
Project, whose external financing has come to an end.
DESCRIPTION AND OPERATION OF IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
DESCRIPTION
The irrigation systems built and managed by INERHI and funded out
of the proceeds of the external loan are as follows:
(a)   The Ambato-Huachi-Peli].eo system, which will irrigate 7.300 ha,
supplied by the Rios Ambato and Pachanlica, whose water is
harnessed by a concrete diversion dam situated at 2.950 m above sea
level, with a 4.8 m3 per second capacity lateral intake and an open
cement-lined canal, which takes the irrigation water to the sub-
areas of Montalvo, Cevallos, Benitez, Huasimpamba and Pelileo;
(b)   The Mocha-Quero-Ladrillos system, covering a net irrigation area of
2,022 ha and supplied by water from the Rio Mocha, which is
harnessed by a diversion dam (con azual],  situated at 3,200 m
above sea level, with a lateral intake on the right bank with a
capacity of 1.1 m3 per second, connected to a sedimentation
structure and an open concrete-lined uanal which crosses four
siphons built in the area.
OPERATION
In the area in which the systems were built there is a predominance
of small farming plots irrigated by the contour-furrow method, since it is
**    T.N.  The meaning of "con azual" was not identified.



- 23 -
impossible to deliver irrigation water to each of them simultaneously, because
of the risk of water theft. Because of this the farmers are grouped into
relatively homogeneous geographical units, known as irrigsaion modulos,
determined by the topography of the irrigable area, water availability and ease
of management and by the physical boundaries, such as roads, low land, etc. In
any case, every effort is made to see that the farms included in the groups do
not decrease or become divided up.
The operation proposed for the irrigation modulos is as follows:
The modulos will receive a continuous supply of water for 30 days
each month,' but the actual supply of water to the farms within these modulos
will be organized in turn on the basis of a preestablished schedule, so that
only one farm can be irrigated at a time, the duration and timing of the
irrigation in the case of each farmer being strictly set and complied with,
according to the volume assigned to the respective modulo by INERHI's Project
Operation and Development Office and in light of farm size. This volume will
be supplied in full to each of the farms, on a seven-day schedule (each farm
has four turns a month: two during the day alternating with two at night) for
fixed periods of time.2 By adopting individual turns within the modulos using
the contour-furrow method it will be possible to regulate irrigation operations
so that the smaller farms receive lesser volumes, which must be exploited to
the full at times when the supply is low. If the farmer irrigated his own
fields, losses will be reduced and the uniform application of water promoted
and, in general, poor utilization on individual plots will be avoided. This
will also help to prevent the harmful effect of soil degradation.
COMPLETION AND ENTRY INTO OPERATION OF THE TERREMOTO TUNNEL
From the report presented by INERHI (copy attached), which is
responsible for the construction, funding and operation of the Terremoto tunnel
-- a crucial artery for commencement of the operation of the irrigation systems
constructed under the Loan -- it may be deduced that Tunnel 3 and the
corresponding joints [empates] were fully completed as of September 30, 1990
and that normal operations are expected to start some time during the final
quarter of the year. INERHI has already identified the personnel needed to
work on the irrigation systems and on the development of the agricultural area,
as provided for in the financing earmarked for the operation, maintenance and
development of these systems, as per the reports of which copies are attached.
Tunnel 3 is as of this date 100% completed in terms of excavation
and 152 in terms of lining work, joints Ti and T2 are 47% finished, and joints
T4 and T5 are 59% completed, which confirm that actual operations will
recommence in October 1990.
1/    On the 31st day of months with that number of days, service will be
suspended, and the canals and structures will be cleaned by the users,
who will be organized into "mingas" (voluntary work groups] for the
purpose.
2/    The smaller the farm the shorter the irrigation time.  It should be
pointed out that there are some forms of the order of 1,000 m2 that will
be irrigated for something like 1/2 hour using a flow of 20 1 per second.



- 24 -
SETTING OF TARIFFS FOR IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SERVICE
In accordance with the provisions of Article 14 of the Law
establishing INERHI, as published in the Official Register No. 158 of November
1966 and Articles 17 and 53 of the Water Law established by Supreme Decree No.
369 of May 18, 1972, INERHI has studied and prepared, for the information and
approval of the Board of Directors, which presides over the Institution, both
the Draft Regulations Governing Irrigation Service Tariffs (including by-laws
for user boards) and the Draft Regulations Governing Irrigation Services, which
will regulate the use and distribution of water and will permit recovery of the
costs incurred, once the two sets of regulations have been approved and
declared to be in effect.
TUNGURAGUA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AREA TO BE              AREA           NUMBER       NUNBER INDIRECTLY
SECONDARY      INCORPORATED INTO      PRESENTLY WITH DIRECTLY SENEFITTED    BENEFITTED
MAIN CANAL        BRANCH      THE IRRIGATION PROJECT     IRRIGATION     WITH PROJECT     WITH PROJECT*
Ambato-Huachi-PeliMo   Montalvo            2341.0
- Cevatlos            793.0
- Benitez            1302.0
SUBTOTAL                                                                 4603                1807
Mocha-Qu.ro-LadriLtos    -a wuro            962.0
- Peltleo            1060.0                              1000                2555
TOTAL                                6458.0             2000.0           5603                4452
- Producers presentLy with Irrigation.
Activity which witi permit rationalize the use of water.



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1644-EC)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Rolated Bank Loans l
Loan Number                                         year
Proleat ITbb             Purmas                  Anproved                 Status                Comments
Credit 425-EC           Irrigation                     1973                 Completed          USS4.4 million
lilagro                development on                                                          First Sank
Irrigation             7,000 ha                                                                irrigation
Project                benefitting 825                                                         project in
families, In                                                           Ecuador.  Failed
Guayas River                                                           to achieve its
Basin.                                                                 objectives.
Loan 1991 EC           To improve income               1981                 Ongoing            USS20 million.
Puerto lla-Chore       and living                                                              serious
Rural Development      standards of                                                            implementation
Project.                10,000 rural                                                           delays.  Major
families on                                                            inprovements
170,000 ha in                                                          since 1988 under
Western Andes.                                                         new authority.
Loan 2044-EC           Imiproving incomes              1982                 Ongoing            USS17 million.
EsmeraLdas Rural       and living                                                              Similar problems
Development             standard of about                                                      to Ila-Chone
Project.               5,100 rural                                                             project, but
families, on                                                           major advances
about 150,000 ha.                                                      since 1988.
Loan 1230-EC           Assistance in                   1978              Completed 1984        USS2.8 million.
Technical              preparation of RD
Assistance              loans.
Project.
Loan 3276-EC           Flood control,                  1990            Not yet effective       USS59.0 million.
Lower Guayas           drainage,
Flood Control           improved health
Project                and living
conditions,
agriculture and
Livestock
development,
envi ronmental
conservation.
/ The Bank has made 14 loans and credits, totalling USS303.1 million (net of cancellations) for agricultural and rural
development in Ecuador since 1976. These include: (a) one loan and two credits for livestock development totalling U.SS15.6
million: (b) a loan for fisheries of USS3.8 million; (c) credit for the Milagro Irrigation Project of USS4.4 million; (d) a
loan of USS3.0 million for seeds improvement; te) a technical assistance loan of US$2.8 million; (f) two agricultural credit
project Loans totalling USS63.5 million; (g) loans for three rural development projects totalling USs51.0 million; and (h) an
agricultural sector loan of US$100 million. The most recent loan, approved by the Board of Directors in Oecember, 1990, is the
Lower Guayas Flood Control Project for USS59 million.



- 26 -
2. ProiLct TfMttibLt
Date                       Revised
Itm                               Plarred                        Date                      Actual
- Identification                                                                         September, 1975
- Preparation                                                                            See Table 8(b)
- Appraisal                       September, 1975                                        November, 1977
-Post Appraisal                                                                          February, 1978
- Loan Negotiation                                                                       November 15, 1978
- Board Approval                                                                         December 21, 1978
-Loan Signature                     July, 1979                                           May 11, 1979
- Effectiveness V                  July 9, 1979                September 4,1979          September 28, 1979
- Re-Appraisal                           -                                               December, 1983
- Board Approval                                                       -                 June 8, 1984
- Project Completion V             June 30, 1985                 June 30, 1988                  1989
-Loan CLosing                    December 31,1985             December 31, 1986          December 31, 1987
December 31, 1987
I/ A RD project was first identified by the FAO/CP in 1974, but an Appraisat Mission in September 1975 rejected the feasibility
report and identified other sub-projects in Tungurahua Province, for further preparation.
/  The terminal date of effectiveness was extended twice to accomwodate delayed staffing of the Project Unit and delayed signature
of subsidiary loan agreements.
,/ Main and secondary canals were 100X complete in 1989, while the tertiary system (on-farm works) was SDX complete. The tunnel,
headworks and dam (GOE-financed) were also compLeted in 1989. The Mocha-Quero-Ladrillos sector of 2,000 ha, planned to become
operational in July, 1988, was sabotaged, resulting in delays due to reconstruction and legal proceedings.  In the Ambato-
Huachi-Peflleo Sector, (served by the Terremoto Tunnel) 900 ha had commenced irrigation in early 1991.
3. Loan Disbursement
Cumutative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USSMillion)
FY80     FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85        FY86    FY87    FY88
Appraisal Estimate                2.25     5.50    9.50   13.50   16.0    17.50    18.0        -        -
Re-structured Project ±'          0.0      0.20    0.60    2.00    6.00    9.60    13.0    16.0    18.0
Actual                            0.0      0.20    0.60    2.00    2.30    2.80        6.20    8.20   14.2
Actual as X of Estimated X'       0.0      3.6     6.30   14.8    38.3    29.2        47.7   51.0    78.9
I/  Project was re-structured in 1984.  Figures shown are estimated disbursements with a two-year
extension of the Closing Date.
I/ Percentages for 1980 to 1983 represent actual disbursement versus original (ie. appraisal)
estimates. Percentages for 1984 to 1988 show actual disbursements compared to estimates for the re-structured project.



- 27 -
4 Pro iect implementation
Appraisal             Re-Appraisal              Actual
g5I! tindigotCrs                         Estimate               Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS)                       30.0                   45.5
Loan Disburseomnt (USS)                         18.0                  18.0                   14.8
Cr dft Prggra  (USSM)                            4.5                    1. 1 i                 0.6
Irrication« Works
Diversion Structure (unit)                        1                                            1
Nain Canmst  (km)                                28                    53                     53
Secondary Canals (km) '                           -                   136                    136
Tertiary Canals (km) f                                                148                    124
New Rural Roads Ckm)                            28                     28                     15.5
lproved Roads (km)                             95                     95                   167.5
Sridoes (unit)                                                          1                      1
Electri    ifctIMY
Transmission (km)                                n.a                    n.a                  85.5
Distribution (km)                                 n.a                   n.a                  190.2
Cornections (unit)                                n.a                   n.a               3,230.0
Social infrastructure
Water Supply System                              17                    16                     20
Latrines                                     7,600                  7,600                 9,427
Health Canters/Posts                             12                    12                     11
Connunity Centers                               20                     20                     67 1
Schools                                           n.a                   n.a                   30.2'
Marketing Centers F                               3                     3                      7
Chibuleo Area Development i                       n.a                   -
I/   November 1983
A/  Reduced to USS2.6 million in November 1983, and to US$1.1 million following reallocation of funds to civil works in September,
1987.
3/  At original appraisal, primary (main) and secondary canal target was combined at 28 km.  At project re-appraisal (November,
1983). primary and secondary Infrastruct:.4re associated with the Terremoto Tunnel, was included for Bank financing with the
overall targets sharply increased (and shown separately).
i/  On-farm works.
I/ No targets established at appraisal. Electrification studies initiated during project implementation and targets set later.
i lncludes construction and improvement.
v Refers to classrooms, not schoots.
8/   Studies were still underway at appraisal for centers at Ambeto, Ouero and Pelileo.  Construction of the Ambato wholesale
market was financed by the GOE.
2/ Detailed plan not available at appraisal and component subsequently dropped at re-appraisal due to availability of alternative
resources and implementing bodies. Estimated total cost at appraisal was USS8 million.



- 28 -
5. Prolect Costs nd Financino
A. Probot Costs
(USSMilon)
Project ae Agreed      Project as Amended !         Actual
Coeponent                  In 1978                 in 1984
Estimated Costs         Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
1.  Irrigation Works: 1'                                                                4.9    10.2   15.1
(a) Primary/Secondary Canal
(Huachi Pelileo)                      -                5.2     3.5     8.7              -
(b) Other                          2.6     1.8    4.4      2.8      1.9     4.7
2. On-Farm Credit                      5.2     2.4    7.6      4.7      3.1     ?58    0.4      0.6    1.0
3. Tree Plant Production               0.1     0.1    0.2       0.4             C .4X-
4.  Storage Facilities                 0.1             0.1      0.1     -       0.1     0.05    0.1    0.1
5. Extension Services and Training ' 1.3       0.7    2.0       1.8             1.8
6. Roads and Electrification           1.0     0.8    1.8       2.1     1.4     3,5     0.4      1. 2'  1.6
7. Social Service Construction It      1.1     0.5    1.6       1.8     1.3     3.1     0.5      1.0    1.5
8. Chibuleo Area Oevelopment           0.5     0.3    0.8       0.5     0.3     0.8      -       -      -
9. Consultants                         0.2     1.0    1.2       -       0.3     0.3     0.02    0.4    0.4
10. Project Administration 9'          2.1     0.5    2.6       1.8             1.8     3.1      0.6    3.7
Baseline Costs                        14.2     8.1  22.3    21.2    11.8   33.0          -
Contingencies:
Physical                           1.1     0.7    1.8       1.3     0.9     2.2
Price                              3.8     2.1    5.9       2.8     1.7     4.5
Total Project Cost                    19.1    10.9   30.0    25.3    14.4    39.7       9.4    14.2   23.6
Comefntf:
The President's Report of May 29, 1984 sets out project costs as agreed in 1978 and amended in 1984, as shown above.  The 1984
data for several cateoories of activities conflicts with data shown in the amended loan agreement of June 8. 1984. On-farm
credit was reduced in 1984 (see Part 1, para 36) due to its poor progress; extension services and project administration
remained part of costs financed by the Bank; and Chibuleo area development was eliminated (at that time, not subsequently), due
to the availability of alternative funds.
Footnotest
I/ The USS18.0 million Bank loan, as reformulated, would finance 45X of foreign costs and 14X of local costs.
J/ HBS date for irrigation works shows the following end of project breakdown for primary and secondary canals:
Bank            Borrower
CUStMIlL.)
(a) Rontalvo-Nocha-Quero-Ladritlos                                                      7.3                3.3
(b) Cevallos                                                           1.7                 1.0
(b) Benites                                                            1.0                 0.5
(c) Waterway Rehabilitation                                            0.2                 0.1
3/ Actua  data Is Included under Project Administration.
4Road USSO.5 m.; electrification USSO.7 m.
Includes wells, latrines, health subcenters, community centers and classrooms.
Includes extension services, training, and re-forestatfon.



- 29 -
B.  Proiect Financing 1/
( USSMIIIo-n)
Planned (1978)           Amended (1984)                  Actual
% of                     X of                        X of
Source                                   Amount      Total         Amount      Total          Amount      Toal
JBRQ                                      10.9       36.3           14.4      36.3             14.2       62
Irrigation Works I/                                     1.8       6.0            5.4       13.6             10.2      43.2
On Farm Credit                                          2.4       8.0            3.1        7.8              0.6        2.5
Tree Plant Production                                   0.1       0.3
Storage Facilities                                      -         -              -                           0.1       0.4
Extension Services and Training                         0.7       2.3            -
Roads nd ElectrIfication                                0.8       2.7            1 4        3.5              1.2        5.1
Social Service Construction                             0.5       1.7            1.3        3.3              1.0       4.2
Chibuleo Area Development                               0.3       1.0            0.3        0.7
Consultents                                             1.0       3.3            0.3        0.7              0.4        1.7
Project Adninistration i/                               0.5        1.7           -          -                0.6        2.5
Conting ncies                                           2.8       9.3            2.6        6.5
Domestic                                        19.1      63.7           25.3       63.7              2.164    39.8
Irrigation Works                                        2.6       8.7            8.0       20.2              5.0      21.2
On Farm Credit                                          5.2       17.3           4.7       11.8              0.4        1.7
Tree Plant Production                                   0.1       0.3            0.4        1.0
Storage Fauflities                                      0.1       0.3            0.1        0.2             (0.05)      0.2
Extension Services and Trafning                         1.3       4.3             1.8       4.5              -        a
Roads and Electrification                               1.0       3.3            2.1        5.3              0.4        1.7
Social Service Construction                             1.1       3.7             1.8       4.5              0.5        2.1
Chibuleo Area DeveLopment                               0.5       2.3            0.5        1.3
Consultants                                             0.2       0.7             -                         (0.02)      0.1
Project AdnInistration                                  2.1       7.0             1.8       4.5              3.1       13.1
Contingencies                                           4.9       16.3           4.1       10.3              -
Total                                                  30.0     100.0          39.7      T1000              23.6      100.0
Comments: See Table SA
Footnotes:
/ Does not included financing of Terrenoto Tunnel, financed solely by the Goverrvnent.
/ See Table SA, footnote 2.
See Table 5A, footnote 3.
i/ See Table SA, footnote 6.
Source: President's Report, May 29, 1984 and MBS/INERII data.



- 30 -
6. Proil9.LRu2tl1S
A. Direct Benefits
Closing                      Full
Indicators                        Appraisal                       Date                     Development
Productij  (tons) 1/                                                                                     na
Maize                                          1,166
Potatoes                                      44,500
Onions                                         2,200
Peas                                             206
Yields (kg/ha) 2/                                                                                        na
Maize                                            564                     1,363
Potatoes                                      13,307                    15,909
Onions                                        20,000                    35,800
Peas                                             390                     6,580
3. Intensified cropping on 18,000 ha
of rainfed land (M)                            78.3                   na _/                          na
4. 16,000 families
directly benefitted _/                     16,000                     na 5/                          na
5. Increased employment 6/                        na                        na                          na
6. Increased national self-sufficiency in
milk, vegetable and fruit production _/        na                        na                          na
7. Decreased rural/urban                          na                        na                          na
income disparities §/
8.  InstitucionaL benefits 9/                     na                        na                          na
Comments:
A M & E system was designed for the project area, but was not implemented.
Footnotes:
I/ Refer SAR, Annex 1, Table 3. AppraisaL data refers to 1976 and does not specify whether it pertains to
the project area, or to rainfed or Irrigated land. Closing date figures are derived from Part 1I1, Table
9(b) and apply to the PeliLeo sub-area only.
y Appraisal data for maize and peas seem too low, (data derived by converting production (tons) to
kiLograms and dividing by area).
3/ Reduced to 14,000 ha at reappraisal. No data availabLe but cropping intensity is assumed to have risen
because most investments and technical assistan.e iirected at the area were inplemented largely on
schedule.
i Reduced to 14,000 families at reappraisal.
St Little data is avaiLabLe. Some 391 families received credit under Ln. 1644-EC, and an unknown nurber
(believed smalL) obtained sub-loans under First and second Agricultural Credit Projects-Loans 1458-EC and
2752-EC; and 60K or around 8,400 families are said to have been reached by extension services. Social
benefits were not quantified but are assumed to be substantial, especially as social service
infrastructure targets were exceeded in several cases.
N/ No targets established. No data availabe.
Z. No targets established. No data available.
I/ No targets established. No data available.
2/ Refer Part I, paras 51-54.



- 31 -
B. Economic Impact
Recalculated Rate of Retumn
Mothodok>av
1.    The methodology used for recaLculating the rate of return for the project essentialty updates that of
the 1983 Bank re-appraisal, using actual costs for the 1984-89 period of implementation. On the benefit
side, the previously estimated stream has been adjusted to reflect delays in implementation and construction
of the Tunnet.
Cost Stream
2.     Costs in current US dollars were converted to 1983 Sucres and civil works (irrigation and storage)
were further adjusted using a coefficient of .89 to refLect the shadow wage rate used in 1983. For the
period 1989 and after, recurrent costs for administration, extension and training, as welL as road
maintenance, are those estimated by the re-appraisal mission. The costs of on-farm investment and O&M of
the irrigation systems have been netted out of the benefit stream.
Benamft Stream
4.     Benefits are based on the 1983 re-appraisal.  Those from irrigated areas heve been adjusted to
reflect the delay in completing the tunnel, primary and secondary works, and on-farm works.  An estimated
4,450 he will eventually receive benefits in the Ambato-Huachi area and w,tl be incorporated as follows
beginning in 1990: 900ha, 450ha, 900ha, 900ha, 900ha, 400ha. For the Quero-Ladrillos area, in 1991 an
estimated 2,000 ha began benefiting from increased availability of irrigation water due to project works.
Benefits from rainfed creas have not been adjusted from the previous estimate as most investments and
technical assistance directed at this area of 14,000 ha were implemented largely on schedule.
Rate of Returm
5.     Based on these assumptions regarding costs, benefits and phasing, the recalculated rate of return is
9.4X over forty years.



REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
....................................
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(In Thousands of 1983 Sucres)
.........................................................................................................................................................
1980    .1981      1982      1983      1984      1985     1906      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992      1993
....................................................................................... .............................................................. ..
Rainfed Areas                       -         -        -         -    43136   -35785   -15126        6698    79514    87288    86805    83111    84825    85249
Irrigated Areas                     -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -   -15831   -67093   -97870   -89732
3S"=   S:==a  ==:==  =3===  =            ==1=====  ======= ====: w-=~=5=   -3t=  u=-=-= =-=    Q==:-==~  =z
Net Farm Benefits                   -         -        -         -    43136   -35785   -15126        6698    79514    87288    70974    16018   -13045    -4483
Tunnel                              -         -   124310    87887          -         -         -    39035   142812   104558    66009           -         -
Pelileo                             -         -        -    28742       8300     5355          -        -         -         -         -             -              -
Montalvo-Cevatlos-Benites           -         -        -         -         -         -    99245    37979    49283           -         -        -         -         -
Hocha-Cuero-Ladrittos               -              -        -              -         -   139417   114095   222283           -         -        -         -         -
C=-= =5==   ======  =======5==   === =======  =====  =====                          =-=:=   ===5=   s=5=====    ==-
Irrigation                          -        -   124310   116629       8300      5355   238662   191109   414378   104558    66009             -         -        -
Admin, Ext A Training          28194    29735    28168    10594    16078    15020    20687    33842    33388    17385    15233    15233    15233    15233
Roads                               -     2390      9684    25207       4239     3570      1906      1140      1285      1285     1285      1285      1285     1285              w
storage & Nursery                   -         -     7130         -         -               2102       819      4694         -         -        -         -         -
Consultants                     4840      3712      1165       700       792      927    10348                    -         -        -         -         -         -
Unspecified                      2973     3225    15341    13781           -         -         -        -         -              -        -         -              -
a====   1====== =:====  ======= = ===5=== ===C====  ======== =                         =======   ======  =======  == ===   Q=5=
Other Costs                    36007    39062    61488    50282    21109    19517    35043    35801    39367    18670    16518    16518    16518    16518
Total Costs                    36007    39062   185798   166911    29409    24872   273705   226910   453745   123228    82527    16518    16518    16518
I====G  =u======    :in===  ==~=====: ~====_== ===~======== =.=======  ~=s=Z==5t===              =__===== ===5  ======= =====__
Net Benefits                  -36007   -39062  -185798  -166911   -72545   -60657  -288831  -220212  -374231   -35940   -11553              -500   -29563   -21001
9====S9 17===== :==7==-w G==== =a===:== 0===7== ======= ======== ======== 0======7 =Z===5== ======
...................... .....................................................................................
1/9/1992  17:07 



REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
TW UoRANUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
................ .......................... 
ECONOHIC ANALYSIS
.......... ............ ..
(In Thousands of 1983 Sucres)
............ ....................... __.......................... ....................................................... ........................... . .
1994     1995      1996      1997'    1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003  2004-19
Rainfed Areas                  67560    67560    67560    67560    67560    67560    67560    67560    67560    67560    67560
Irrigated Areas               -44719    41531   101451   159720   216075   264319   311291   360128   386992   408914   423593
Net Farm Benefits              2841   109091   169011   227280   283635   331879   378851   427688   454552   476474   491153
Tumr,el
PeLiteo                            .         .         .        .         .         .        .
Montatvo-CevaltLos-Benites                             -             -                       -         -
Mocha-Quero-Ladritlos              -              -             -         -                  -                  -         - 
Irrfgatfon                                   -        -         -             -         -         -        -         -             -
Aditn, Ext & Training          15233    15233    15233    15233    15233    15233    15233    15233    15233    15233    15233                                                     w
Roads                           1285      1285     1285      1285      1285     1285      1285     1285      1285     1285      1285
Storage & Nursery                  -         -                  -         -        -         -                                     -
Consuitants                        -         '        '         '         '        '         '         '
Unspecified
UU33=== w=-=U=== r======= =====w=== m====__== ======== ==sc====s= e===--== =======s= =====__= =====-==
Other Costs                    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518
Total Costs                    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518    16518
Met Benefits                    6323    92573   152493   210762   267117   315361   362333   411170   438034   459956   474635
..... ..........................................10,
1/9 /1599Z 17:08



- 34 -
C. Studies
Purpose as                                         Impact of
Item                      Defined at Appraisal  Status                          Study
Follow-on RD project          Preparation of                 n.a                            n.a
study                          follow-on RD project
in Tungurahua
Province.
Chibuteo Area                  To prepare detailed           Dropped at project              n.a
DeveLopment Study              second phase plan of           re-appraisal in
Chibuleo Area                  1983/84 due to
Development.                  availability of
alternatives
resources and
implementing bodies.
Study                          To develop ways of            n.a                             n.a
promoting off farm
activities to
supplement farmer
income.



- 35 -
7. Status of Covenants 1'
Section                                 Covenant                           Status of Compliance
2.02(a)                                  Borrower to open and maintain            Complied.  Initial deposit of
a Special Account                        USS1.0 million, subsequently
raised to USS2.0 million to
alleviate major delays in
project implementation caused
by sLow payment of
contractors.
3.01                                     Borrower to cause BNF to                 Not in compliance.  BNF was
provide sufficient funds to              unwilLing to lend to small
execute Part A.                          farmers and resisted Sank
efforts to find soLutions.
3.01(c)                                  Borrower to establish, through           Complied
NAG, a Project Unit and ensure
requisite staff, funds and
faciLities.
3.01(d)                                  Borrower to establish: (i) a             CompLied
Coordinating Board; and (ii)
Advisory Board.
301 (e), (f), (g)                        RAG to make subsidiary                   Complied in part.  Completion
agreements with all                      of subsidiary agreements
participating agencies;                  protracted, while counterpart
Goverrnment to provide these             funds shortages and ceilings
agencies with adequate funds             on Goverrment hiring affected
and staff.                               implementation.
301 (h)                                  Borrower to establish and                Complied
adequately replenish a
Revolving Fund for Project
Execution.
3.02 (a)(i), (ii), Ciii);                Borrower to employ a Project             Complied in case of Project
3.02 (b) and (c)                         Administrator, Agricultural              Director and Administrator.
Engineer and                             Hiring of other specialists
Horticultural/Fruit Expert;              delayed or deferred due to
various expeits and                      salary/contractual problems,
consultants in fields                    and reluctance to depend on
pertinent to the Project; and            external assistance.
a Project Director
3.04 (a) to Ce)                          Borrower to open, manage and             Complied
replenish a Project Account.
3.04 (f)                                 Borrower to furnish certified            Complied, but gross delays.
audits not later than 3 months           Project design required a
after end of each fiscal year.           separate Project Account for
each participating agency, and
separate audits of each.
3.05(a), and (b)(i)                      Borrower to submit an annual             Complied, with major delays.
project investment plan and
budget 2 months prior to new
year; and plans, contracts,
specifications pertinent to
project.
3.05(b)Cil),CiiM) and (iv)               Borrower to: (a) prepare plan            Complied, with delays.  In
for carrying out Part B(5) and           case of (b), (Chibuleo Area
furnish, within one year of              Development) component was
loan signing; (b) furnish,               dropped after project
within 6 months plan for                 re-appraisal in late 1983.
implementing Part D; and (c)
prepare and submit TOR for
studies, within 12 months of
loan signing.



- 36 -
3.05(e)                                 Borrower to furnish a                   Complied, with delays.
completion report within 6
months of Closing Date.
3.06                                    Borrower to acquire Land                Complied
necessary for construction and
operation of project
facilities.
3.07                                    Borrower shalt take all                 Complied, with major delays
measures to complete Terremoto          due to counterpart funding and
Tunnel in a manner and                  technical problems.
timetable satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.04(a)                                 Borrower to make arrangements           Not in compliance.  Bank has
enabling INERHI to collect              repeatedly urged compliance
full cost of operation and              but issue remains unresolved.
maintenance, and irrigation
investment costs.
4.04(b)                                 Borrower to discuss water               Partial compliance.
charges periodically, with the
Bank.
Borrower to audit Special               Complied, with delays.
4.05                                    Account and submit report to
Bank within 6 months of end
FY.



- 37 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inputs
(weeks)
Stage of Project
Cycle       FY74 PY75 FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89    Total
Tbrough Appraisal 5.3 56.3 29.2  10.6 111.9                                                              213.3
Appraisal through
Board Approval                             33.5                                                           33.5
Supervision                                       18.6 16.2  13.5  10.9 33.8  13.4  14.8  12.0  18.0  1.6   152.8
Total          5.3 56.3 29.2  10.6  111.9 33.5  18.6 16.2  13.5  10.9  33.8  13.4  14.8 12.0  18.0  1.6   399.6
B.  Missions
Stage of Project   Month/               Number of  Days in    Specialization "2  Performance  Z' Types of 3'
Cycle           Year               Persons    Field        Represented       Rating/Status   Problems
Through Appraisal  February, 1974          4          35       Ec, Ag, lrr.
June, 1974            1           5       Ec
July, 1974            3          13       Ec, Ag. lrr.
December, 1974        4           5       Ec
February, 1975        5          28       Ec, Ag, Irr.
September, 1975       5          20       Ec, Ag, Irr.
April, 1976           3          17       Ec
July, 1976            1          20       Ec
June, 1977            1           7       Ec
July, 1977            1           7       Ec
September, 1977       4          15       Ec, Ag. Irr.
November, 1977        3          18       Ec, Ag. Irr
Appraisal through  February, 1978 4'    4              6       Ec, Ag, Irr.
Board Approval
July, 1978            1           8       Ec
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Supervision          July, 1979            3          10        Irr., Ec            2                 M
October, 1979         1           2       Ag                   2                  F
April, 198n           2          10       Ec. Irr.             1                 MF
November, 1980        2          10       Ec, Irr.             2                 M
May, 1981             1          15       Ec                   2                 M
December, 1981        3          n.a.     Ec                   2                  I
July, 1982            3          15       Ec, Irr., Ag.       2                  FM
April, 1983           1           8       Ec.                  3                  FTM
October, 1983 5'      2          20       Ec, Irr              3                  F
July, 1984            1           6       Ec                   1                 MP
March, 1985           1           7       Ec                   1                 M
May, 1986             1           2       Ec                   2                  T
August, 1987          1          16       Ag                   2                  FT
October, 1987         2          18       Ag, Irr              3                 M,F
June, 1988            2          14       Ec, Irr             3                  F,M
November, 1988        2          17       Ec, Irr              2                 M
December, 1990        3          10       Ec, Irr              2                  TM
1/ EC = Economist; Ag = Agronomist; Irr = Irrigation Engineer
2/ 1  = Minor Problems; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems
3/ F  = Financial; H = Managerial; I = Institutional; T = Technical; P = Political; E = Economic
4/ Irrigation component was re-appraised
5/ Project was re-appraised due to poor progress and shortage of counterpart funds for civil works.



- 38 -
Table 9A: Fruit: Area Planted and Yields. Huachi Sub-Area, 1974-1990
1974                              1980                             1990 !'
Area Planted     Yield/ha         Area Planted      Yield/ha        Area Planted       Yield/ha
(ha)           (Kg)               (ha)            (kg)              (ha)             (kg)
Apples           450            5,000               600           10,000            1,300            20,000
Pears             10            7,000                15           12,000               30            21.000
Peaches           10            2,560                15            4,800              200            11,000
Plums             50            6,500               60            12,000              200            16,000
Blackberries      24            3,200               30             5,000               80            11,000
Source: NAG
1/ Estimate. Projected area under cultivation in 1994 is: apples 1,400; pears 45 ha; peaches 400 h;
plumns 300 ha; blackberries 160 ha.
Table 9B: Area Planted. Production and Yields of Maize and Vegetables. Pelileo Sub-Area. 1974 and 1990
1974                                             1990 -'
Area Planted    Production          Yields/ha    Area Planted        Production        Yield/ha
(Ha)           (Kg)               (Kg)            (Ha)              (Kg)             (Kg)
Maize             70           63,600               909              130          177,000             1,363
Potatoes          50          545,450            10,909              120        1,909,080            15,909
White Onions      80        1,880,000           23,500               150        5,370,000            35,800
Peas              40          130,000            3,250                85          559,300             6,580
Other Vegetables 35           477,260            13,636               80        1,454,560            18,182
Tree Tomatoes    25           818,175           32,727                70        5,727,260            81,818
Source: MAG
1/ Estimate
Note: There is some doubt on the accuracy of these data and they are provided for illustration only.



-ocu^chirw^t)   >n  P       ILLARO
ECUADOR
UNGARAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                              t                                                   Miguehte
__ _ __ _                 -                     CHIQUiCee     -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CQuItlch _- '~\
*   t B_                           _     _     _ -ic
Posc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rs p'/g                                        '' g 
R  S A~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____GMO 
/ $ / h XU A \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   H l 
HIBULLEOS                                j                                                                                         /         
VICENI
T I/          L E 0 C 
Mom,,rods
Seceedery reeds                                                                                                                                                        £
~- Rivers \a urkx,mCAer
Pr1-ect reds,)
Ne.                                                                                                                                   HUAMBAL'
,mproved                                                                                         UELO VIEJO
r     Sherge foilitiest
.    Heelth p,es,s wd sub-eeteri
oCenuI-ty cesters                                                                                                       Y U    E   -,YNAPAN
Petrble weterY
Esist,ig p.trellly regesed wrees
Proeici                                                                                                                           - MOChAPATA
Irrigaerd erees                           Mere          Af; OLONE
o,efed erees                             R :ArITI .
,e- Fore Inys/ereerS
ve~wwew. r.t1.0FVTS UlWK$y.l- v  X, <1 , \\ I                      i E tPSR  ° CHA _  PL ,)
" I                  HUrev.wrv'dvmmrALCAN A -A L   0iA         RANCLISCO                      )
{X            \\            I              ¢         IZ )  NV    SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~N PEDRO DE 5ABANAr         S
P   A       R    A      l      0      S.                             "     -
r        J                    °.;-! .' 2            3     4,     5      6  i7 
f  / 1-- , t 4 X w~~~~~~~~~~~eleser
goRsbroO                                              2-oelahr  .)olp 3                                                                              TG'-  O         T



