Document of                     FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-21428-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 6, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Sucre (S/.)
Calendar 1977       November 1978
US$1          -          S/.25             S/.25
S/.1          -         US$0.04            US$0.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF         Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
IEOS        Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias
(Ecuadorian Institute for Sanitary Works)
IERAC       Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion
(National Land Reform and Settlement Agency)
INERHI      Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidraulicos
(Ecuadorian Water Resources Agency)
INIAP       Instituto Nacional de Investigacion Agropecuaria
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MAG         Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Ecuador.
Amount:                     US$18.0 million
Terms:                      Payable in 17 years, including 6 years of grace, at
7.35 percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms for
Agricultural Credit
Component:                  Repayment period for subloans would be up to twelve
years, including grace periods of up to five years.
Up to 90 percent of subloans could be rediscounted
at the Central Bank at interest rates that would
yield spreads of between three and six percent to
the financial intermediaries. Interest rates to
ultimate beneficiaries would be 11 percent for
small farmers and 14 percent for others.
Project Description:        This project aims at improving the productivity,
income and general living conditions of 16,000 poor
rural families (about 83,000 persons) living in
Ecuador's Tungurahua province. Project components
include (i) credit and other agricultural support
services; (ii) the rehabilitation and expansion
of irrigation works; (iii) construction and improve-
ment of rural roads; (iv) rural electrification; and
(v) other social services, e.g., provision of potable
water and health services.
Special Risks:              The only special risk which this project faces would
be the occurence of organizational and management
problems owing to Ecuador's little experience, to
date, with integrated rural development projects of
this type.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
--US$ million-
Local Foreign Total
(a)  Irrigation & On-farm Works    2.6    1.8        4.4
(b)  Credit                          5.2    2.4      7.6
(c)  Tree Plant Production           0.1    0.1      0.2
(d)  Storage Facilities              0.1       -     0.1
(e)  Extension Services and
Training                      1.3    0.7      2.0
(f)  Roads and Electrification       1.0    0.8      1.8
(g)  Social Services                 1.1    0.5      1.6
(h)  Chibuleo Area Development       0.5    0.3      0.8
(i)  Consultant Services             0.2    1.0      1.2
(j)  Project Administration          2.1    0.5      2.6
Baseline Costs                 14.2    8.1    22.3
Contingencies:  Physical        1.1    0.7      1.8
Prlce          3.8    2.1      5.9
Total Project Costs            19.1   10.9    30.0
Financing Plan
-US$ million-----
Local Foreign Total
Bank                                 7.1    10.9    18.0
Governmnt                           11.0        -    11.0
Beneficiaries                        1.0        -      1.0
Total                            19.1    10.9    30.0
Estimted Disbursommts:
US$ million by Fiscal Year -------
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual      2.25   3.25   4.00   4.00   2.50   1.50   0.50
Cumulative 2.25   5.50   9.50  13.50  16.00  17.50  18.00
Rate of Return!             The economic rate of return Is estimated at 21 percent
for the components of the project with directly
quantifiable benefits, whlch represent 74 percent
of the total costs of the project.
Appraisal Roeort'            Report No. 2154-EC dated November 28, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUT'IVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A TUNGURAHUA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$18.0 million to help
*        finance the Tungurahua Rural Development Project.  The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including six years of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 1382-EC
entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Ecuador" was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 1, 1977. An economic mission visited
Ecuador in April-May 1978 and its economic report is now in the final stages
of preparation.
3.        During the past six years, the Ecuadorian economy has gone through
a phase of rapid economic growth spurred mainly by exports. Between 1971
and 1977, GDP grew at a 9.3 percent annual rate in real terms and by the end
of the period the country's per capita income had climbed to about US$770.
Petroleum exports were the main engine of growth of the Ecuadorian economy
through 1976, despite a decline in the volume of petroleum exports since 1974.
4.        After reaching EL maximum of 59 million barrels in 1973, exports of
crude oil began to fall and had dropped to 38 million barrels in 1977. Owing
to the international oil price increases, however, petroleum still accounted
for 40 percent of total exports in 1977, the same share as in 1973. In 1977,
the source of growth of the Ecuadorian economy moved from exports to domestic
demand as domestic expenditures increased by 7.8 percent while exports
*        declined by 13 percent, af'ter a 14.5 percent jump in 1976, all in real terms.
The most recent decline in exports could be attributed to: (i) the
unrealistically high reference price asked for Ecuadorian petroleum exports,
which has not been met by foreign buyers and has led to increased domestic
stocks of unsold exportable crude oil; (ii) a rapidly increasing domestic
demand for oil, stimulatecl by unrealistically low internal prices; and (iii)
coffee stockpiling in the expectation of higher prices.
5.        Despite the present relatively high average income level and a
period of rapid economic growth, much of the Ecuadorian population continues
to live in poverty. According to the 1974 Census, the incomes of two-thirds
of the rural population were less than one-third of the national average.
The average annual income of the poorest 25 percent of urban dwellers was
only US$150 in 1975. While open unemployment is only about 3 percent, under-
employment is estimated to be as high as 30 percent of the country's labor



- 2 -
force. The high rate of population growth -- 3.5 percent per annum, one of
the highest in the world -- remains an important impediment to the solution of
underemployment and poverty.
6.        Rapid increases in world prices for Ecuadorian agricultural exports,
principally coffee and cocoa, largely contributed to the overall buoyancy of
the economy during 1976 and 1977, leading to substantial increases in non-wage
incomes and in wages of most urban workers. This resulted in rapidly growing
consumer expenditures which brought a pressure upon domestically produced
goods with inflationary consequences. The rise in consumer prices accelerated
in 1976 and continued strongly during 1977 reaching an annual rate of 14.4
percent.
7.        During 1970-77, Ecuadorian imports increased at an average rate of
12.1 percent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were:
(i) the high investment rates achieved during the period and the related
demand for imported capital goods, mainly for the industry and transport
sectors; (ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial sector; and
(iii) the growing demand, in the recent years, for some imported agricultural
products.
8.        Fiscal policies in 1976-77 were clearly expansionary and monetary
growth accompanying them, at least throughout the first half of 1977, was
strong. The overall public sector deficit increased from 0.7 percent of GDP
in 1975 to 2.5 percent in 1976 and 3.7 percent in 1977. In order to stem
this trend and minimize the inflationary impact of fiscal policies, the
monetary authorities introduced in mid-1977 restrictive credit policies
which resulted in the decline in the rate of growth of money and quasi-money
from 35 percent in 1976 to 20 percent by the end of 1977.
9.        Financing of the fiscal and balance of payments deficit was
increasingly sought in external financial markets. As a result, as much as
77 percent of the total public debt presently outstanding was committed in
the last three years. Terms, maturity and grace periods of the newly con-
tracted debt hardened somewhat as most of this new debt was provided from
commercial sources. Ecuador's debt service ratio increased from 12.4 percent
in 1971 to 14 percent in 1978 and is expected to reach 20 percent in 1980.
10.       Ecuador's GDP growth rate in 1978-79 is expected to decline to
around 5 percent as a combined result of an unfavorable turnaround in the
terms of trade, the stagnation in the petroleum sector and the tight monetary
policies. This decline is directly related to investment behavior. Fixed
investment, after having reached a high level of 25.5 percent of GDP in 1977,
began to be negatively affected by restrictive credit policies, indecisive
petroleum policy, and the climate of uncertainty associated with Ecuador's
ongoing elections. Investment may rebound in 1979, but only if development
expenditures in the petroleum sector are carried out.
11.       Real exports of goods are expected to increase by some 9 percent
in 1978 and to remain unchanged in 1979 (when non-oil exports are expected
to increase by only 4 percent, but petroleum exports are expected to decline).



- 3 -
As a result, the country's resource gap has remained at around 2.0 percent of
GDP in 1977 and 1978, and could be expected to increase slightly to some 2.6
percent of GDP in 1979.
12.       In the medium term, the Ecuadorian economy has modest growth pro-
spects. It is unlikely that the external sector will continue to play as
strong a growth propelling role as in the past, as it is expected that oil
exports are likely to continue their decline and agricultural exports may
become affected by adverse world market price movements and limited export
opportunities. The prospects of the Ecuadorian economy could be strengthened,
however, through timely implementation of improved policies in the petroleum,
agriculture and manufacturing sectors.
13.       Domestic consumption of petroleum and its products has been growing
at 15 percent per annum in the last several years. By 1977, one-third of the
country's petroleum output was consumed nationally. Although the growth rate
of domestic consumption is expected to decline in the coming years as a result
of the decline in overall economic growth, the amount of petroleum available
for export would still be reduced, limiting the country's import capacity.
Under these circumstances, and unless new petroleum resources are discovered
and exploited, the country's import capacity will become a serious constraint
to the growth of the economy. Export prospects may improve in the next three
years only if Ecuador resumes--as it is now intended--oil exploration, an
effort which has slackened in the past few years. The two main economic
policies which will have to be implemented here are first, the decision to
invest substantially in oil exploration--whether with own resources or by
the risk-taking foreign enterprise, and, secondly, the decision to increase
domestic prices of petroleum.
14.       The agricultural potential of Ecuador is at present largely under-
utilized and could be used both as an engine for the medium-term growth and
as a means to alleviate social inequities. Ecuador has enough fertile land to
expand agricultural and livestock output at a reasonable cost. Its forestry
and fisheries potential is also considerable and, while increases in production
of crops and livestock should mainly satisfy the domestic demand, produce of
forestry and fisheries could be directed to the foreign markets. In partic-
ular, the agricultural potential of two important regions of the country--
the Costa and the Oriente--is great. New regional institutions have been
created in order to manage the exploitation of these regions. The use of new
lands together with the extension of improved techniques of cultivation should
slow down the rural exodus, relieve the pressure on urban labor markets, and
affect positively the distribution of income. Ecuador will have to make
greater efforts to develop this sector and to reverse the rising trend of food
imports and the stagnation of its exports. Infrastructure such as feeder
roads, flood control, and storage facilities, as well as technical assistance
should be significatively strengthened. Administrative inefficiencies con-
sisting of often conflicting decisions and frequently changing policies which
discourage investors will have to be overcome. As a result, private investment
should be encouraged and productivity will be ultimately increased, which
would lead to the agricultural sector becoming one of the leading forces in
the Ecuadorian development.



- 4 -
15.       The industrial sector of Ecuador, representing 17.5 percent of the
country's GDP, should help in sustaining moderate growth in the next several
years. Ecuadorian industry, predominantly privately owned, has been largely
geared to import-substitution in consumer goods, and was operating in a
strongly protective environment. This deflected entrepreneurs' interest
from transformation of the country's natural resources. Moreover, with the
relative prices of capital and labor distorted by the system of investment
incentives, production techniques became increasingly capital-intensive.
Measures aiming at a change in these policies, which in the past have been
largely responsible for discouraging the industrial sector from involvement
in activities in which it could have a strong comparative advantage, are now
being discussed by the Ecuadorian Government. Their implementation would
have an important effect on restructuring the industrial sector and should
result in a strong, more efficient and consequently more export-oriented
growth. In particular, tariff, price and interest policies would have to be
changed in order to strengthen those sectors with more favorable export
prospects and to avoid the possibility that inefficient industries be allowed
to develop.
16.       While the above policies still need to be formulated in concrete
terms and implemented, it should be noted that as far as the recent past
is concerned, the overall economic management in Ecuador could be generally
considered as adequate. The Government has, by and large, resisted the
temptation to sink oil revenues into wasteful and grandiose schemes and has,
instead, used the proceeds of petroleum exports for more modest, and largely
rationally selected investment. It has also fostered a climate conducive to
increased private investment which resulted in a notable acceleration of the
industrialization process which, while it has not taken an optimal path, has
not been seriously inefficient, mainly because it is still in its initial
stages. Moreover, the authorities have recently shown courage and
determination in fighting inflation through a skillful use of short-term
monetary tools. However, with the increasing recognition that future growth
may become import-constrained and that the national resource base is in-
sufficiently exploited, the Government is now standing at the crossroads. The
continuation of the past development path is not advisable, while adoption of
a new strategy calls for substantial changes in the policy framework. The
situation is additionally complicated by the extension of the electoral
process, at the commencement of which it has been decided to postpone major
policy decisions until the new Civilian Government is installed.
17.       Ecuador remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms
considering its growth prospects and relatively modest debt service burden.
The Government is aware that further intensive borrowing from private capital
markets would result in a deterioration of the country's debt service profile
and has taken appropriate measures. The local currency financing built
into the present loan is meant to support the country, to the extent possible,
in its present efforts to improve its debt structure. The need for such
financing arises essentially from debt and balance of payments management
considerations rather than from an overall insufficient savings effort;
national savings in Ecuador at present represent about 25 percent of GDP, a
high figure for a country with a modest per capita income level.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
18.       Bank group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954, when a loan
was made for a first highway project. In all, the Bank and IDA have extended
to Ecuador 21 loans and six credits, totalling US$276.7 million net of cancel-
lations. As of October 31, 1978, US$147.6 million of this amount had been
disbursed. The IFC has made eight loans and investment commitments in
Ecuador. Two were for a large textile company, four in a development finance
company and one each in a sugar mill and a cement company. These operations
have amounted to US$22.4 million in commitments of which IFC now holds US$19.1
million.
19.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has been hampered by weak-
nesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects the
insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical re-
sources --a constraint that is still a major obstacle to Ecuador's economic
and social development.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC operations as of October 31, 1978, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transportation and power, where there were --and still are-- substantial
bottlenecks to be overcome. Most of the nine loans and credits extended
for transportation were to improve the country's road network; two loans
were, however, made to help finance the expansion of the port of Guayaquil.
Lending for power has aimed at improving generation and distribution facili-
ties in Quito. The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67,
marked the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending
program away from straight infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has
made seven loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, three DFC loans
to support industrial development, a credit and a loan for education, one
loan for water supply and two technical assistance loans. Bank Group
involvement in the directly productive and social sectors has grown to
the point where it now accounts for about 53 percent of total Bank Group
lending.
21.       Turning to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in (i)
the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of fostering
development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial sectors;
(iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effectively; and
(iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In
addition to the rural development project which this report recommends, the
Bank is preparing industrial credit and petroleum projects, a slum upgrading
operation for Guayaquil and a fishing port project. Most of these operations
would have important institution building aspects and include sizable technical
assistance components.
22.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank and USAID and, to a lesser extent, by
other bilateral sources. A sectoral breakdown of development assistance to
Ecuador by the main donors through December 31, 1977 is given in the following
table.



-6-
IBRD       IDA        IDB       U.S./,
Lending 1954-64                            54.0       9.1       35.3       62.7
Lending 1965-77                           184.0      29.6      423.3       73.0
Transport                               61.5         -        65.1         -
Power                                      -        7.0       92.7        6.2
Education and Technical Assistance    19.0          5.2        4.1        5.3
Health and Sanitation                    23.2        -        90.7        9.5
Agriculture and Fisheries                26.5      17.4       96.3       29.1
Industry                                53.8         -        53.8        7.8
Urban Development                          -         -        14.8         -
Other                                      -         -         5.8       15.1
Total Lending 1954-1977                   238.0      38.7      458.6      135.7
/1   Includes official export credits
IDB has been, by far, the single largest lender to Ecuador. Most of its loans
to the country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally
carry a two percent interest, a 10 year grace period and repayment terms of up
to 40 years. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development
lender in the immediate future, although the blend of IDB lending may become
less concessionary than in the past. While the IDB's future lending program
for Ecuador is a varied one, agriculture will account for an increasingly
large share of it. USAID has not made any new commitments to Ecuador since
1973. Recently, however, this agency has expressed an interest in renewing
its operations in the country, primarily in the agricultural sector.
23.       As of December 31, 1977, Ecuador's outstanding public external debt,
including undisbursed, amounted to about US$1,750 million. Bank Group lending
constituted about 13 percent of this amount and absorbed about 7.8 percent of
the country's external debt service. Assuming increased recourse to long-term
bilateral and multilateral debt, by 1985 the Bank's share of Ecuador's out-
standing public foreign debt could reach 15 percent and its share in debt
service would climb to around 12 percent.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
General Characteristics
24.       Notwithstanding the petroleum sector's rapid growth since the early
seventies, agriculture remains, in many ways, Ecuador's dominant sector. In
1976 it still accounted for about 20 percent of GDP, was the source of liveli-
hood for about one half of the labor force and generated 30 percent of the
country's foreign exchange earnings.



- 7 -
25.       Wide ranging topographic and climatic conditions divide Ecuador into
three distinct agriculturaL regions. The tropical, generally humid and flood
prone Costa is where most of the country's agricultural exports--bananas, cocoa
and coffee--are grown. Sulgar cane, beef ranching, rice, oil palm and fibers
are also concentrated in the Costa.  The second of these regions is the
densely populated Sierra where temperate climate foodgrains, potatoes, vege-
tables and deciduous fruits are grown. Most of Ecuador's dairy farms and
sheep herds are also located in the Sierra. The third and most isolated region
is the sparsely populated Oriente, the rain forest to the east of the Andes
which is part of the Amazon basin. While the Oriente presently contributes
little to sectoral output, it is slowly being settled and is known to have
considerable potential for beef, rice, oil palm and yucca.
26.       Nearly 60 percent of Ecuador's population are rural dwellers, most
of whom are poor. In 1977 the estimated per capita income of the rural popula-
tion was only about US$300 per annum, less than 40 percent of the national
average. Moreover, 2.9 million of the 4.4 million persons living in rural
areas in 1977 had per capita incomes below one-third the national average and
1.5 million of these lived in "absolute" poverty with per capita incomes of
less than US$60 per annum.
27.       Living conditions for most of Ecuador's rural population are pre-
carious.  Adult literacy is known to be much below the already low national
rate of 69 percent and many children in rural areas are, in effect, barred
from receiving an education by virtue of the fact that they live at great
distances from schools. Of rural dwellings, nearly 90 percent do not have
access to public water supplies, electricity or sewerage facilities. Health
services in rural areas are generally poor and the relatively few local
hospitals and dispensaries are badly equipped and understaffed. Infant
mortality has been estimated at 79 per 1,000 births and waterborne infections
are widespread and lead to a high incidence of illness and death. Transport
in rural areas is a serious problem. Although Ecuador has a relatively
good main road system, its feeder road network is deficient. In addition,
many of the existing feeder roads become impassable during prolonged
periods of rain. These conditions hamper the flow of goods and people into
and out of rural areas.
Institutional Framework
28.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) has overall respon-
sibility for the planning, programming, and implementation of Ecuador's
agriculture/rural development effort. There are a number of autonomous
agencies attached to MAG that deal with land reform, irrigation, agricultural
research, storage and marketing. Several regional development agencies
are also associated with MAG. Extension services offered by MAG were, until
recently, organized along specific crop lines. Given the diversity that
is typical of farming in Ecuador, however, MAG is in the process of restructur-
ing itself in order to be able to provide integrated extension services to
individual farmers.



- 8 -
29.       Institutional credit to the agricultural sector has grown rapidly
in recent years, from about US$66 million in 1971 to about US$500 million
in 1977.  About 70 percent of this credit is provided by the state-owned
National Development Bank (BNF) and the remainder by commercial banks.
Despite the rapid expansion of institutional credit for agriculture, only
about 10 percent of farmers have access to it. Many other farmers utilize
a large but unquantified volume of informal credit available from suppliers
or money lenders.
30.       Land distribution in Ecuador is skewed.  According to the 1974
agricultural census, 54 percent of the country's farms occupied only 2.2 per-
cent of the land being cultivated and were less than two hectares in size;
roughly 75 percent of these "minifundia" were located in the Sierra. At the
other extreme, 2.2 percent of individual holdings occupied nearly half the
cultivated land. In an effort to effect change in this land tenure pattern,
the National Land Reform and Settlement Agency (IERAC) was set up in 1964.
Land distribution was also a central objective of the 1973-77 development
plan. To date, the Government has had modest success in implementing its land
reform program. Altogether, some 78,300 peasants (about 10 percent of land-
holders) have been assigned about 1.5 million ha of land. Nearly 80 percent
of the land assigned was, however, in new areas recently opened up to
colonization and less than 90,000 ha of privately owned land have been
expropriated and redistributed under the land reform.
31.       Since its founding in 1959, the National Agricultural Research
Institute (INIAP) has evolved into an institution of major importance and
has attracted widespread international support. The Bank Group has provided
financing for INIAP activities through credits and loans for crop and live-
stock projects and through the recent seeds project (Loan 1229-EC) approved
in FY76. Years of applied research have permitted INIAP to develop a
reasonably good technical basis for providing practical advice on increasing
agricultural productivity. In transmitting the results of this research to
the farmers, however, progress has not been as good. Therefore, INIAP is
increasingly concentrating on the development of lower cost technology
packages for low income farmers, and on acquainting farmers with research
results via extension services.
32.       Created in 1966 as an autonomous unit reporting to MAG, the
Ecuadorian Water Resources Agency (INERHI) is responsible for developing
irrigated agriculture and ensuring the rational use of water resources.
INERHI has developed a substantial capability in civil works design and
construction, has brought some 35,000 ha under irrigation, and has projects
underway that would benefit another 10,000 ha. Through a credit to help
finance the Milagro Irrigation project (Credit 425-EC approved in FY73),
the Bank Group has supported INERHI's programs.
Performance and Constraints
33.       Despite the rural sector's considerable potential and the existence
in Ecuador of some modern and efficient agricultural operations -- most of
which are export oriented -- the sector's overall performance since the



- 9 -
sixties has been sluggish and local production of staple food crops has been
trailing behind demographic growth. Since other sectors of the economy have
experienced vigorous growth, the difference between rural and urban income
levels has been widening as has the gap between the demand for, and the
national production of, foodstuff. This has resulted in some food shortages,
inflationary pressures and increased food imports. In 1976, for example,
Ecuador imported nearly US$150 million in foodstuffs, equivalent to about
14 percent of the total import bill. The overall balance of trade for agri-
cultural commodities was sitill heavily in the country's favor, however,
as agricultural exports -- led by coffee, bananas and cocoa -- reached about
US$500 million in 1976.
34.       Ecuador's agricultural potential is large enough to permit a
pronounced reversal of the trend described above. The country is endowed
with the resources needed for a varied and greater output. There are sizable
areas of uncultivated land that could be developed for agriculture and live-
stock. About 40 percent of this land is, however, located in the Oriente,
which is still largely isolated and uninhabited. Another one-third of the
potential new agricultural land is in the Andean highlands where erosion,
population pressures and land tenure patterns have, so far, constrained growth
possibilities. The remainder is in the Costa, in areas where the best soils
suffer from seasonal flooding and insufficient drainage.
35.       Although putting new land to agricultural use in Ecuador is diffi-
cult, most of the increases in agricultural production in the past have
been due to the extension of the cultivated area and not to the wider use
of improved techniques which would permit more intensive farming. The
sector has operated with largely deficient extension services, credit,
storage and marketing facilities, seeds and other inputs. Technological
progress -- particularly amongst small farmers -- has been slow and average
yields are generally low.
Prospect and Strategy
36.       The agricultural development strategy set forth in Ecuador's
1973-77 National Development Plan aims at a more efficient exploitation of
the country's agricultural potential. In pursuit of this objective, the
Government has raised farmgate prices for a number of basic crops, increased
the flow of credit into the sector and reduced sales taxes and import duties
on intermediate and capital goods used in farming. A Seeds Corporation was
formed in 1973 to promote the production of improved seeds and the Govern-
ment has allocated an increasing share of its budget to agriculture and
rural development.
37.       These measures have achieved some success.  However, they still
require substantial reinforcement. Agricultural planning and execution have
been mostly undertaken on a piecemeal basis and policies affecting commodity
prices have been uncertain, thus failing to provide adequate assurances to
farmers. At the same time price supports have, in some cases, been excessive
putting a drain on the budget. Government involvement in the marketing of
farm inputs and agricultural products has also been generally unsuccessful.



- 10 -
As was mentioned earlier, the physical infrastructure required to get farm
produce to markets -- especially feeder roads -- is still limited, and the
marketing system neither provides strong incentives to farmers nor facilities
for efficient handling and distribution. Finally, despite recent Government
efforts, institutional credit to the agricultural sector is still insuffi-
cient.
Bank Group Lending
38.       In order to help overcome some of the constraints mentioned in the
preceding paragraphs, Bank Group lending for agriculture has been growing
and now includes seven loans and credits totalling US$43.5 million. The
bulk of our lending in the sector, four loans and credits for US$31 million,
has helped finance credit projects. The first three of these -- Loan 501-EC
(approved May 18, 1967), Credit 173-EC (approved September 4, 1969) and
Credit 222-EC (approved November 24, 1970) -- have now been fully disbursed
and focused on Ecuador's livestock industry. They provided credit and
intensive technical assistance to a relatively small group of progressive
ranchers. The projects were well-managed and executed. A Project Performance
Audit Report issued on October 21, 1975 for the first two credit operations
indicates that they achieved their main objectives: to improve productivity
in participating ranches and increase national beef production. The fourth
and most recent agricultural credit project (Loan 1459-EC approved on June
14, 1977) has a broader thrust than its predecessors. Its aim is not only
to continue promoting livestock but also to spur the development of crop
farms and small agro-industries. This loan became effective on June 14, 1978
and is experiencing satisfactory progress in its start-up.
39.       The Bank Group also extended a US$5.5 million credit (425-EC) in
1973 for an integrated agricultural development project based on irrigation in
the Milagro area of the Costa. More than 80 percent of the credit's proceeds
were for equipment and vehicles for the construction of irrigation and road
infrastructure. These components have progressed well with disbursements on
schedule. However, the project's on-farm development component is lagging. A
loan to improve seeds (Loan 1229-EC approved on March 30, 1976) and a technical
assistance loan (Loan 1230-EC) approved on the same day, round out Bank Group
lending for agriculture in Ecuador. The technical assistance project provides
financing for the establishment of a rural development planning and preparation
group within Ecuador's National Planning Board. It also helped finance
pre-investment studies for rural development projects. The proposed operation
is the first rural development scheme prepared with funds made available under
Loan 1230-EC.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was prepared by the staff of MAG and INERHI
with the assistance of international consultants. As has already been
mentioned, financing for the project's preinvestment studies, which were
submitted to the Bank in October 1977, was provided under the Bank's



- 11 -
technical assistance loan (1230-EC). The project was appraised in November
1977. The appraisal mission's report (2154-EC dated November 28, 1978)
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report Tungurahua Rural Development Project" is
being distributed separately. Annex III contains a supplementary Project Data
Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took place in Washington from November 15
through 22, 1978 and the Ecuadorian delegation was headed by Mr. Benalcazar,
Coordinator General of the MAG, and by Mr. Erazo, Ecuador's Attorney General.
Representatives of the Central Bank, Ministry of Finance and Planning Board
also attended negotiations.
The Project Area
41.        The project woulcL be carried out in the Province of Tungurahua which
is located in the Ecuadorian Andes approximately 140 km south of Quito (see
the Map following Annex II]I). Tungurahua is relatively small. Its total
area is only about 3,200 kmn and its population is 270,000, two-thirds of
whom live in rural areas. The province's only large town is Ambato, the
provincial capital.
42.        Tungurahua's topography is typical of that found in the Ecuadorian
Andes. Its altitude ranges from 2,400 m to over 6,000 m and the province
consists of rugged mountains, steep slopes and fertile but narrow valleys.
The province's climate is tLemperate and has little seasonal variations.
Precipitation is relatively even throughout the year but rainfall varies
between about 500 mm and 1,000 mm per annum within the province, depending
on altitude and air currents. Precipitation tends to be low at the valley
floors.
43.        The project area of about 300 km  is located just south of
Anmbato and is inhabited by about 83,000 people. Population density is
high, 277 per km , and most of the 16,000 families living in the project
area are poor "minifundistas" farming between less than one and three ha per
family. They are engaged in subsistence agriculture and their principal crops
at present are potatoes, vegetables and fruits.
44.        Infrastructure and support services in the project area are generally
deficient. Although the province has a fairly extensive main road network
linking it to Quito and Guayaquil, rural roads -- particularly at higher alti-
tudes -- are few and poorly maintained; they become practically impassable
following heavy rains. Existing irrigation systems supply water to a total
net area of 6,700 ha in the project area. Virtually all distribution canals
are unlined, however, and supply water irregularly. INERHI has reported that
water losses in the distribution system reach 60 percent. Of the 13 villages
in the project area, only five have potable water supply systems and only
three of these provide hotLse connections. The remaining two systems offer
only public standpipes. Other villagers and members of the widely dispersed
population draw water from the irrigation canals or springs. Rural electri-
fication is also deficient. Only eight of the 13 villages have electricity
and only about 80 percent of the persons living in these eight villages have
direct electrical connections.



- 12 -
45.       As in the case of infrastructure, health and education services
within the project area need improvement. Adult illiteracy is estimated at
about 30 percent and many children living in the countryside do not attend
schools because these are concentrated in or near villages. The health
situation is worse. There are only 25 hospital beds in the area (one for
every 3,320 inhabitants) and only one doctor per 7,800 persons, one dentist
per 23,000 and one auxiliary nurse per 2,700 inhabitants. Health conditions
are generally poor with most illnesses resulting from respiratory, skin and
parasitic diseases.
46.       Extension work has focused mainly on development of the paramo, cold
and damp regions in the project area found above 3,000 m. Extension services
for the project area as a whole are poor and none are offered to farmers in
irrigated areas. Credit is provided principally by the National Development
Bank (BNF). Only 10 percent of the farmers in the project area have access to
institutional credit, however, and nearly two-thirds of the total credit
volume goes to 15 percent of these borrowers. The small farmers in the
project area have only limited marketable surpluses and practically no storage
facilities. About two-thirds of the area's output is harvested and sold
between April and July with 70 percent of this being sold in Ambato, the
province's main marketing center.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The objective of the proposed project would be to improve living
conditions for some 16,000 poor rural families (about 83,000 persons) in
Tungurahua province by increasing their incomes through increased productivity
and by providing them with an improved infrastructure base and social services.
This project would be the first Bank-supported integrated rural development
effort in Ecuador.
48.       The proposed project would include:
(a) rehabilitation and expansion of irrigation systems and
on-farm works on 1,800 ha in the Quero-Ladrillos area.
This would benefit about 2,300 farm families;
(b) on-farm works on 7,800 ha of irrigated land in the
Huachi-Pelileo area benefitting about 9,700 farm families;
(c) support services, including provision of credit and storage
facilities, to improve agricultural production on the above-
mentioned irrigated area and on 18,000 ha of rainfed lands
in the Quero and Chibuleo areas where an additional 4,000
farm families dwell;
(d) construction and improvement of the rural roads and
rural electrification networks;
(e) provision of social services including potable water,
latrines, health facilities and community centers; and



- 13 -
(f) consultant services to assist the project unit and to carry
out studies for follow-up projects.
The project would be carried out over a six year period (1979-85). It would
be administered by MAG, through a project executing unit, in accordance with
arrangements described in paragraphs 54 through 60.
49.       About 20 percent of project expenditures would be for irrigation
improvements. In the Quero-Ladrillos area, these works would consist of
a water diversion structure, the rehabilitation (including lining) and
construction of about 28 kn of main and secondary canals, the installation
of six siphons and the improvement of on-farm irrigation works. In the
Huachi-Pelileo area, the emphasis would be on improving on-farm irrigation.
In both cases, water would be delivered to blocks of approximately 100 ha
each. Farmers within these blocks would establish water user directorates
which would participate in carrying out on-farm works.
50.       Agricultural support services would be the project's single largest
component accounting for nearly half of costs. Most of this would be for
credit to farmers and farm cooperatives. Medium- and long-term credit would
be provided for incremental farm inputs such as seeds and fertilizers, and for
on farm investments such as fencing, agricultural equipment, cattle development
and tree planting. In addition to credit, extension services would be intensi-
fied in the project area and an existing fruit tree and forestry seedling
nursery would be expanded. Three farm produce collection centers would also
be constructed. Included in this component would be a first phase effort to
provide infrastructure and services to the Chibuleos area, the poorest region
in the province. This area of 3,000 ha is inhabited by an indigenous popula-
tion of about 5,000 people who live in a subsistence economy.
51.       Under the project, about 28 km of new feeder roads would be built
and about 95 km of existing feeder roads would be improved. The electrical
networks of the villages of Quero and Pelileo would also be improved and
extended.
52.       The social services component would include the installation of
16 potable water supply systems to serve 17,000 beneficiaries. Drinking
water would be supplied through public standpipes located in villages and
at strategically placed points that would serve the more widely scattered
population. It would also provide for the construction of about 7,600 latrines
which would benefit about 50,000 persons. Funds would also be earmarked to
construct, furnish and equip two new health subcenters and eight new health
posts; two existing health posts would be renovated and vehicles would be
purchased for the use of lhealth services personnel. Finally, 20 community
centers would be provided under the project.
53.       Financing would be provided for about 90 man-months of consultants'
services at an expected average cost of US$6,450 per month. All consultants
would be recruited internationally. Their terms of reference were agreed upon
during negotiations. These consultants would be retained, inter alia, to help
administer the project and to strengthen extension services. In addition, the
project would provide funds to help prepare a possible follow-up project in



- 14 -
Tungurahua province and the second phase of the Chibuleo area development
discussed above. The Government would prepare terms of reference for these
studies and submit them to the Bank for approval not later than 12 months
after the proposed Loan Agreement's signing (Section 3.05(b)(iv) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
54.       The proposed project is a multifaceted one which would require the
participation of several ministries and Government agencies as well as local
farmers. MAG would have overall responsibility for carrying it out and
would establish a Project Unit for this purpose (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Project Unit would be headed by an experienced Director,
whose qualifications, terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). MAG has already
identified a qualified person for the Director position and this candidate
attended negotiations. The Project Director would be assisted by consultants
including specialists in administration and extension services as well as an
agricultural engineer and a horticulturist. These consultants, and their
terms and conditions of employment, would also be acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.02(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Because of their
importance to the project's start-up, appointment of the Project Director
and of the consultant for administration would be a condition of the loan's
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
other consultants would be recruited no later than six months after the
signing of the Loan Agreement (Section 3.02(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       A Coordinating Board -- composed of senior MAG officials, the
President of the National Planning Board, the Directors of INERHI and IERAC,
the Governor of Tungurahua Province and farmer representatives as well as
the Project Unit Director -- would be established to supervise the project's
timely execution. The Minister of Agriculture, or his representative, would
preside over the Board which would meet at least twice a year to review
progress on the basis of semi-annual reports prepared by the Project Unit. An
Advisory Board, made up of the regional directors of the various participating
agencies along with the Project Director and representatives of the project's
beneficiaries, would also be set up to facilitate coordination at the regional
level. It would meet at least every three months and would receive quarterly
progress reports from the Project Director. Both boards would be established
within six months of the signing of the draft Loan Agreement (Section 3.01(c)
and Schedule 6, paragraph 3, of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The Project Unit would be directly responsible for execution of
this operation. It would manage and coordinate the sundry activities of the
participating agencies and be directly responsible for construction of the
project's road, storage facilities and community centers components. It
would also hire consultants, organize farmer cooperatives, prepare and
implement training programs, handle tree-plant production and the development
of the Chibuleo area. The Project Unit would draw up an annual investment
plan and budget as well as a summary of projected expenditures. This would
be submitted to the Bank at least two months prior to the start of the year
in question (Section 3.05(b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
57.       MAG would provide the Project Unit's extension staff.  In order
to ensure that the extension personnel necessary for project activities would
be available without affecting MAG's ongoing extension services elsewhere,
the project would include t:he training of extension agents as well as the
incremental costs of extension personnel. In addition MAG, together with the
Project Unit, would prepare a plan for the implementation of the Chibuleo area
development component. This plan would be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months after the signing of the Loan Agreement (Section 3.05(b)(iii)
of the draft Loan Agreement). INERHI would be responsible for the final
design and construction of the project's major irrigation works. A condition
of disbursement for the Quero-Ladrillos irrigation works would be that the
Bank had approved the finaL design for these works (paragraph 4(c) of
Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement). INERHI would also, together with the
Project Unit, be responsibLe for the provision of technical assistance in
connection with on-farm irrigation works. It would also organize the water
user directorates mentioned in paragraph 49 and would operate and maintain the
major irrigation network.
58.       The Ecuadorian Institute for Sanitary Works (IEOS) would design
and construct potable water improvements, latrines and health facilities.
Once constructed, local communities, assisted by IEOS, would operate and
maintain the potable water systems and latrines. The Ministry of Health would
be responsible for staffing and operating the health facilities.
59.       The Ambato Power Company would prepare a plan for the rural elec-
trification component and would submit it to the Bank for approval not later
than one year after the signing of the Loan Agreement (Section 3.05(b)(ii)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The company would then be responsible for
this component's execution. After the Project Unit has completed the rural
roads component, Tungurahua's Provincial Government would look after their
maintenance.
60.       In order to ensure that the above mentioned agencies would carry
out their assigned tasks under the project, MAG would enter into supple-
mentary project agreements, acceptable to the Bank, with them. It would,
furthermore, be a condition of disbursement for each component that the
Bank had approved the relevant supplementary project agreement (Sections
3.01(e) and paragraph 4(b) of Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost and Financing
61.       The project's total cost, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$30 million. Its foreign exchange component is about US$10.9 million,
equivalent to 36 percent of project costs. The proposed loan of US$18.0
million would cover 60 percent of project costs, including the entire foreign
exchange component and US$7.1 million of local costs (see paragraph 17). The
Government would contribuite US$11.0 million; this would cover about 38 percent
of project costs. The baLance -- about US$1 million -- would be provided by
the project beneficiaries themselves. To ensure that funds would be readily
available in a timely manner for project start-up and execution, the Government
would establish, by June 30, 1979, a revolving fund in the Central Bank for



- 16 -
the use of the Project Unit. It would deposit therein the equivalent of
US$500,000 and replenish the fund, as needed, so as to maintain it at that
level (Section 3.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
On-Lending Arrangements
62.       Credit to the ultimate beneficiaries would be made available by
both the BNF and private commercial banks. Participating financial inter-
mediaries would be responsible for determining the creditworthiness of
prospective sub-borrowers and would then be able to rediscount up to 90
percent of subloans made with the Central Bank. The eligibility of subloans
for rediscounting through the Central Bank would be determined -- on the basis
of the economic, technical and financial soundness of their supporting invest-
ment plans -- by the Project Director of the Agricultural Credit Unit within
MAG, which was created under previous Bank credit projects (Credits 173-EC and
222-EC and Loans 501-EC and 1459-EC).
63.       The subloans would have terms of up to twelve years with grace
periods of up to five years. The Ecuadorian Monetary Board would establish
the interest rates at which subloans are rediscounted at the Central Bank, and
such interest rates would yield a minimum spread of three percent and a
maximum spread of six percent to the financial intermediaries. Interest rates
to the ultimate beneficiary would be a minimum of 11 percent for small farmers,
or cooperatives composed of small farmers, and 14 percent for others. At
least 90 percent of the total amount of all subloans would be for small
farmers (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       The annual interest rates of 11 percent for small farmers -- defined
as those having net assets, including land, of less than US$20,000 -- and of
14 percent for other beneficiaries are adequate. Inflation in Ecuador has
been dropping from a peak of 23 percent in 1974 to 14.4 percent in 1975, 10.2
percent in 1976 and 12.9 percent in 1977. Inflation in 1978 is estimated to
have been 12 percent and it is expected to average 10 percent over the next
three years owing to the Government's anti-inflationary policies.  On this
basis all sub-borrowers would pay positive interest rates.
Recovery of Costs
65.       Under Ecuador's 1972 Water Law, the beneficiaries of Government
financed irrigation projects must pay for the operation and maintenance
(O & M) of the irrigation systems and for the cost of these works. INERHI
is entrusted with the responsibility of fixing water tariffs which would
permit this. During the course of negotiations, assurances were obtained
that these water charges will be sufficiently high (i) to cover all 0 & M
associated with the project's irrigation component; and (ii) to permit the
full recovery of the investment cost of these works. This cost would be
periodically adjusted to take account of inflation (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
66.       The cost of the tree seedlings would be fully recovered through
adequate sales prices (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). However,
no direct recovery of capital costs is expected on investment incurred for



- 17 -
roads, electrification, storage facilities or social infrastructure. Benefi-
ciaries would, however, take care of the operation and maintenance of the
potable water systems, latrines, community centers and storage facilities
through community organizations including the traditional Ecuadorian system of
self-help known as the minga.
Procurement and DisbursemenLt
67.       Most of the project's civil works components -- expected to amount
to about US$8 million, excluding contingencies -- would be carried out on the
basis of individually negotiated contracts or through MAG and INERHI force
account. This procedure is suitable because most of the civil works in ques-
tion consist of small jobs scattered throughout the project area, which would
not be attractive to foreign contractors. Furthermore, the desirability of
using labor intensive construction methods, including self-help organizations
and small contractors located near the construction sites, would limit the
opportunities for local competitive bidding. In those few cases where indi-
vidual jobs would exceed US$150,000, contracts would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding, according to local procedures which are accept-
able to the Bank, and after the Bank had reviewed the proposed award.
68.       Goods and services financed through the project's agricultural
credit component, totalling about US$7.9 million excluding contingencies,
would be procured through normal commercial channels.  Owing to the large
number of sub-borrowers and the wide range of items to be financed, interna-
tional competitive bidding would be impracticable. An adequate selection of
local and internationally manufactured farm inputs and agricultural equipment
is available through local distributors who maintain adequate stocks and spare
parts.
69.       Electrical equipment, expected to cost about US$200,000 would be
procured through internationally competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Other equipment, vehicles and spare parts needed for project
execution and administration -- expected to amount to US$1.3 million, excluding
contingencies -- would be procured according to local competitive bidding
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Because of the sundry nature of
these items and their generally small size, international competitive bidding
for these would not be practical.
70.       Disbursements under the loan are expected to take place over a six-
and-one-half-year period beginning in mid 1979 and would be made against:
(i) 58 percent of the subloans made to participating farmers; (ii) 54 percent
of total expenditures for civil works; (iii) 54 percent of local expenditures
for the incremental cost of personnel for project administration and extension
work; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment
manufactured abroad, 80 percent of expenditures for locally procured imported
goods (excluding taxes and duties), or 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of
these if they are manufactured locally; and (v) 100 percent of total expendi-
tures for consultants' services and overseas training.



- 18 -
Economic Justification
71.        The proposed project would improve living conditions for an estimated
16,000 poor farm families (approximately 83,000 persons) living in the project
area. Well over 90 percent of these persons presently have annual per capita
incomes below US$250 and are amongst Ecuador's relative poor. Moreover,
65 percent of them are subsistence farm families with per capita incomes from
agriculture at or below US$60 per annum, the "absolute poverty" level in
Ecuador.
72.       As the result of the credit, extension services and improved irriga-
tion facilities which this loan would help finance, the project beneficiaries'
agricultural output is expected to increase significantly. Farmers' incomes
would rise correspondingly. At full development, an estimated 75 percent of
participating farm families would have progressed beyond the present relative
poverty level. Most of the remainder of the project's beneficiaries -- the
very smallest of the "minifundistas" -- are expected to have augmented their
agricultural incomes sufficiently to have crossed over into the present
"relative poverty" range, i.e., between US$60 and US$250 per capita a year.
73.       Based upon the expected yield increases, the economic rate of
return is estimated at 21 percent for the components for which benefits can
be quantified (accounting for 74 percent of total project costs). The economic
return for investments in (i) the rainfed area would be about 36 percent,
(ii) the Huachi-Pelileo irrigated area would be about 14 percent, and (iii) the
Quero-Ladrillos irrigated area would be about 13 percent. In addition to the
economic benefits referred to already, persons in the project area would also
enjoy certain non-quantifiable benefits such as improved feeder roads, rural
electrification, storage facilities and potable water facilities.
74.        In a national context, the project would contribute to attaining
self-sufficiency in fruits, vegetables and milk production. By helping
to reduce income disparities between rural and urban areas, it would also
tend to reduce migration to urban centers. In addition, given the relatively
low investment costs -- US$1,500 per ha and US$1,600 per family in the
Quero-Ladrillos irrigated area, and US$500 per ha and US$1,400 per family
in the rainfed zone -- the project could be widely replicated. Finally, the
project -- the first of several rural development schemes which the Government
plans to carry out in Ecuador -- would afford valuable experience to MAG and
the other participating institutions, which would be useful in carrying out
similar operations elsewhere.
Project Risk
75.        The project faces the normal risks inherent in agricultural under-
takings of this nature. A drop in farmgate prices and the incidence of
diseases in the fruits and vegetables to be grown in the project area are, for
example, always possible and could have a negative impact on the project's
return. On the other hand, the demand for fruits, vegetables and dairy
products may well be greater than foreseen and the unquantified economic
benefits from improved storage facilities and feeder roads will probably be
significant. A major risk facing the project would be the occurrence of
organization and management problems, particularly since Ecuador has had
little experience with this type of project. In order to minimize this risk
and to avoid problems of inter-agency coordination, the project calls for the



- 19 -
creation of a Project Executing Unit which would function under the aegis of
MAG, but would be assisted and advised by the coordinating and advisory boards
referred to in paragraph 55. MAG would also enter into supplementary project
agreements with each of the participating entities in which the responsibili-
ties of each party would be clearly set forth. Finally, the managerial and
technical capacity of the Project Unit would be strengthened by means of 90
man-months of consulting services.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
77.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, a special condition of
effectiveness of the loan would be the hiring of the project director and of
the consultant for administration (paragraph 54). In addition, Bank approval
of supplementary project agreements between MAG and each of the participating
entities would be a condition of disbursement for expenditures by any of these
entities (paragraph 60). Bank approval of the final design of the irrigation
works for the Quero-Ladrillos irrigation works would be a condition of
disbursement for this component (paragraph 57).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 6, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                               Page  1  of  6  pageS
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ECUADOR                                                   /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. i(M.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             283.6                                                       SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGRER
AGRICULTURAL       65.2                                   MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROLUP /d    GROUP Ie
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       .,        360.0      770.0           1066.7       867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       201.0        297.0      442.0             911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           4.2          5.9        7.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0 /f.a   38.3          41.6              57.9        46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         15.'0         21.0      27.0              25.6        50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       89.0         99.0      117.0              77.6        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.0 /f.s   47.6 /f   44.5 If             42.0        42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                           51.8 /f.R    49.5 /f   51.7 /f            52.2        53.5         56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.2 Lf.R    2.9 /f    3.8 /f             3.7         3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.0          3.5        3.6              2.7         2.5          1.6
URBAN                                 5.0 !h       4.1 /i    5.6               4.3         4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.3         45.0       41.8             35.8        37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        16.9         12.0        9.5              9.1        10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.3        3.1              2.6         2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          9.0      34.8
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..       6.3              15.1        20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-l1Q)               88.9         100.0      95.1             102.1       107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     81.,0        91.0       93.0             103.9       105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            46.0         49.0       47.4              60.3        63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         24 ,0        22.0       21.9              26.7        21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        21.5         14.6         ..              8.7         8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0            57.2       59.6             62.6        57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             100.0         76.6       70.2             56.9        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TQTAL                                  ..         34.0      36.0              60.7        56.8         67.7
URBAN                                  ..         76.0      67.0              78.0        79.0         83.5
RURAL                                  ..          7.0        8.0             34.9        31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..         ..             61.1        30.9         70.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..              80.3        45.4         90.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..        7.0             25.4        16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..       2870.0    2110.0            1899.3      2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       2640.0    2820.0 /i         1220.1      1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                              520.0 /g,k  430.0       470.0             422.3       493.9        275.4
URBAN                                  ..        190.0         ..            258.2       229.6        129.9
RURAL                                  ..      4740.0          ..           2281.6      2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         17.0         ..             25.6        22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.1         5.2         ..              5.2         5.2          3.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..               ..         5.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..               ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2!.5 /         ..                        Z2.0         2.0          0.9
URBAN                                 2.1 Ia        .          *               2.1         1.5          0.8
RURAL                                 2.8 1         ..        ..               2.7         2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLLNGS)
TOTAL                                32.0 /g                41.0              51.2        64.1         59.2
URBAN                                73.            ..         ..             77.3        67.3         78.0
RURAL                                 5.0 /g        .        L2.0             12.8        34.1         12.5



ANNEX I
TARItE 3A                                         Page  2  of  6  pages
_ CvADOR - SOCIAL IN'DICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GaOUPS (ADJUSTFD AVERAGES
IUADOR                                                 Ia
- M4OST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      SilT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOCRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTLtATE /b       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSrED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        97.0      102.0            103.5       99.8         97.6
FEMALE               79.0         95.C     100.0            102.9        93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:  -OTAL                  12.0        26.0       38.0             37.2       33.8         47.8
FEK'ALE              10.0         24.0      36.0             37.9        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 29.0         29.0       23.0             14.7       12.8         22.7
POIL-TLXCHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        38.0       39.0             32.8       34.9         25.4
SECOSDARY                          11.0        15.0       16.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         68.0      69.0 L[          74.9        71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         5.0        5.0             26.9       12.4         32.3
LADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         41.0       279.0         ..            173.5      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.5        25.0       36.0             69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERVAL
INTEREST") CIRCSLATION PER
TEOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0        41.0       41.0             72.8       45.2         70.9
CINMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           4.0       5.6              4.3        4.6          4.4
EnPLOYMEi?T
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1400.0       1700.0    1900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.2        19.1       20.1             21.4       25.7         17.A
AGRICULTLURE (PERCENT)             57.0        54.0       43.5             37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PEACENT)                 19.4        22.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5         31.7      31.6             30.8        33.8        33.7
KALE                                 54.3         51.0      50.2             47.2       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                               10.5         12.2      12.8             13.2        17.3        12.6
ECDNOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.7          1.8       1.8              1.7         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUT:ON
PERCENNT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             28.9       23.6         20.2
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..              7.7       52.3         47.9
WWEST 20 PERCENT OF EOUSEIIOLDS      ..           ..        ..              3.2        4.3          3.2
lOVEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             10.7       13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARMGT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            251.9      191.9
ItURAL                               ..           ..     196.0"           200.6      193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     161.0            403.1      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     115.0"           258.0      197.7        313.1
ISTIMATED POPULATION 9ELOU POvERTY
,15COME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      23.0             24.8       19.8         23.2
IRUAL                                ..           ..      90.0             65.2        35.1        54.5
Not availoble
* Not applicable.
NOTES
/5    The adjusted group averages foc each indicator are populatono-veighted geometric mans. excluding the extreme
values of the indicAtor and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of d.ca and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, daca for 1960 refer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betvwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Fsti, te, betveen 1973 and 1977.
Le  Latin America _ Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Incore ($551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Incom. (SL36-2500 per captca. 1976);  /f  Excluding nomadic Indian jungle population;
LA  1962;   /h  1950-62;  /L  1962-70;   LI  1972;   /k  Government hospital establishnents only.
Sept-mber. 1978
A recent e-ononic mission (1978) h.s e-tnbli.h.d thut the absolute poverty income lvel in rural areas
ts around US,$60; the ntional relative poverty level is USS250 and about 65% of the rural population
have incono's beloa the rel.tive poverty level.



ANNEX I
lEY TO COtNTRIES BY REGION AND rNCQME CROUP/a                                              Page   3   of   6   pages
NagEon/lom. Group                 Lon IcnnaL /b                    Lo.r Middl.               Int.ndi.t. Middl.                    Uppar Middla           High Inm.-                  Coun/rfn
lA1-   -/-P                 In-pZLd                             In.,-LA                                        Oil Vopooec-
Banoi                   ralh.. Angol                              yh n                                  Djibocti                  Gaboo
Burundi                MIli              RoE.t-.,                 Ivoty Co..t                           Runit
Can-ral African EPp   Mononbiqu          C_oroon Iaurirto
Ch.d                   Biger             Cap. Vr."                 Naibia
Cf_oro                  R. td-           Cono, P  .               SNyh iI.
Ethiopi                Sierra L-on       Equatoriutl Gui.a.
AFRIC"  SOUTh        G;bia, Tha              S-nni.            Libani.
OF SAHR                uia                   Tan..nia            auritnla
Cuion.Bi u             TDsomd            Nig-ri.
Inya                   u nnd,            Rhndaaia
L.aotho                 Uppor Vol.       San T_. 6 Pnincip
Mad.gacar               Zairn            Sanago
HoZa ilantI
Zanbi.
NORTH AFRICA                                                   horopC.                  AlPriIa TRI - iD                                                 Outibt
AND MIDDLE           Y-n   P.D.R.                                                       Synian ANR.                           I-q                                                  Qaca
EAST                    Tn Dia I                                                                                              Lb-non                                                Uied Arab ia i
AIghaniatan            Maldiv-
SOUTH ASIA           banglad..h             NBp;l
Bhata                  PakiuDa
B-n,.                  Sri Lanka
India
C_bodiav .N fabrlda.                                              China  R-p. 0                          Fti                       _rioB gA
To .  DH.                                Ppu; nk" Eninna          Cilba I lalond                        Hong Kong                   ran.I
EAST ASIA            L.o F.Dl.R.                               Philippi-.a               orn., RP. H                                                      rT-b Polvonai.
Solonon IEI.nda                          Thailand                 Macan                                                           rA
Viac NHn                                 TongN HCladia                                                                            -n         I Ealndonl
Aetarn baelon           Truat Tarritory of oh. Pacific                                   sitgporn
Haiti                                    inlivi                    ntigu            Cu.t-.n l           ABg.nEin                   Rah
El Salnadlor            b liEa            J-P-ic-              Harbadna                  Rannda
LSTIN AMEHECA                                                  Granda                   Chil-             Mnleoh Cir..il                                CN Itiona
AND CARIBBEAN                                                  Mu=ao                    Coltonia Rcirg u-                     nu    Gud   n             VoartSinH
St. Vinunt              Daninio           Pnru                HNah-nl-dn  n.till..       Virgi. Elan.da (U.S.)
Doninican R..  St. KittE-N-ni         Pan-a
E-uad-c          St. Lucia              uti.  gin
Triniidd  Tobago
Urug cay
T.ckay                                CtP  tia                  Ch noal  1 -nd,
ETJROFE                                                                                                                       Mahn            *           ibracIr-
ortugalv                  fran.
Au-cralia        Finland                      It.Ly               N-rnay                 United Sta.-
INDASTRILIZED        4u-rri            F.oon                        Japan               South AfriOa
COUNTRIES            Rgt d               onany Pd. Rap  oE          INuthrg             SvidIo
Ca.d             Enaland                     N. th.rlegda        Sabtnarl-d
DEamrk           Ir-a-nd                      Nan Zalond          U tK ridn
Albania           .n  DB. Rap.             USSR
Bugariai          H.uty
CENTRALLY PLANKED    China P.R. of   Kora-  DAt R-p. If
ECOINOHIES           Cuba              MonAgoia
Cx%o-hnlokI   Poland
LB B--d on lA19 INP p.r oapit. in 1976 VS do1lara.
]b  S2RD or  Ion. per capit.
I  B28E1-550 pr rapLt..
/d  $551-1135 pr c.pita.
/n  51136-25DO  par onpita.                                                                                                                                                                       ypFDF
7 onr 525DO par capita.



ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                      Page W4 of   6  pages
NoteW    Altho,,,gh the data are drawn from sources generally judged the mast authoritative and reliable. it shruld also be noted that they may sot be inter-
nationally conparahle becanse of the larh af standardised definitions and conreptr used by different .o.ni...s in collecrieg the data. The data are. nonetheless,
set 1 to deaucriba orders ot magnitude. itdicate trends, and oharaoterize rertain major differe-cea between o_ntrries.
The Thusdiued group averages for each indicator are paplatian-weighted geometric mea-n, ecrluding the extreme values ef the iediranor and the mast
pop,iuced  country to  each  group.   Coverage of countriee anong the indicatora depends on availahilit, of data d                  not aifon.  Dun ta  ah  tdata.
group soerages fur Capital Surplus Oil Epaortera and indicators of access ta water and eacreta disposal, housirg. income distribution and poverty are
umnple population-weighted geomet iw means without the exclasion of eatreme values.
LAND AREA (thouasad sq. kh)                                                               Pepulation per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Pepalartiu   (trtal,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland watera.                         arbha, and rural) divided by their resPective .anker af hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate af  -gricultural ares  sad temporarily                 available in public and private general and apecialiaed haspital and re-
or permanently far crops, poutures, market and kitchen gardens am to                     habilitationcenters.  Hospitals are establishmentm permanently staffed by
lie faloto                                                                               at least use phyaician.  Establishments pr-viding principally custodiai
care ace nut included. Rural hospitals, h-wever, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - INP per capita esti=ates at current mahrkt prices.,                    al ceuters nut permaeently staffed by a physician (but by a  ndical as-
calculated by same cunvarsion nathod Sa World Bank Atlas (197S-77 basis);                sistart, nu--e, midwife, etc.) which affer in-patient acoAmnodstion aud
1960, 1970, aud 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range uf medical facilities.
Admisaions Per hospital hed - Total namber of admissiana to ar dis-harges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual cunsumptien of aoweeruial energy                     from hospitals divided by the namber of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleu=, natural gas and hydra-, uclear sand geo-
thermal electricity) Ia kilograms of ..al eqaivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size uf hbusehold (persons per houseobld) - tatal, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A hbusehold tonsiats of a group of indinid-aIs wh. share lining quarters
T_t1populatio-, mid-year (aillians) - As uf July 1; if nut an-ilable,                      and their main meals.  A bharder ur ledger may -r may  ant be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.,                           the household far utatistical parpases.  Statistical definitions of hbuse-
_            rbun population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total papula-          hold nary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas  may affect eamparability                   Average number of persoms per ream - natal, urban. and rural - Average  n-
uP data among countries.                                                                 her of persons per room in all, urban, and  aural eccupied conventional
Papulation denuity                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per uu. bus. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    .u.coupied parts.
Of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. aericulture land - Conpuned as sbhun  fnc agricultuera  iced                  Canventianal dwellings with electrisity in living quarters as p.rrentseg
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectiveiy.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as pe-centages of mid-               EDUCATION
year papulation.                                                                      Adlusted anrollment ratios
Population grovth rate (parcent) - total. and urban - Cospound annual                    Primary school - trtal, and female - Total ard female enralleent af all ages
granh rates of total and urban mid-year populatians for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary schaol-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted fur
Crude birth rate (per thausund) - A.nnal live births per tho.uand of                       different lengths of primary educatius; far countries with  universal ado-
aid-year pupulation; tem-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 aud                     catioa  enrollment may eucaed 100 percust since soee  pupils are balaw or
1q70 and fine-year average ending in 1975 far nest recuet estimate.                      above the afEiciul schoal age
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand af mid-                     Sec.ndary uchol - tltai, and female - Computed as sabve; secondary educa-
year papulation; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tien requires at least four yearn of appraved primary insJtructio; pra-
and five-year a-erage ending is 1975 for nrst recent estimate.                           vides general occatianl, or teacher training instructi..s for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daaghters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 no 17 years of age; correspondence caurses are generally
in her  ormal reproductine periad if she enperiences present age-                        e-cluded.
sp_cific fertility rates; usually fine-year averages auding in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (Percent of sec..dary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1075.                                                                          cade technical., industrial, or ether progra'a which operate independently
familp planning - accepiors, annual (thausande) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
.acceptors of birth-co-itrl devices under auspices of eational family                 Pupil-teacher ratia - primary, and secndary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by atbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married wames) - Percentage of                          spending level_.
married women  of child-beating age (15-44 years) who use birth-central               Adult literacy mrt  (percent) - Literste adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women In stan  age group.                                         a par-entoga cf ti tal adult population aged 15 years and over.
FlOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Ioden of foad production pcr capita (1970-100) - Index nunber of per                    Pasuenger cars (per thousand pupulation) - Passenger ears camprine meter care
capita annual production of all food ce-s-dities.                                      seating less than eight perser.s; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of eet feod snpplies available in coantry per capita                Radia receivers (per thousand cpolatiLn) - All types af receivers for radio
per day.  Avsilable supplies couprise d..e.tic productiom, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of populatian; excludes unlicensed
exporus, end chauges In . atk.  Net Supplies exclude asimal feed, seeds,               receivers in cuantries and in years when registratian at rsdio sees was in
quantities used in food proceusing, and leases in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may net be coaparable since mast countries
quirements were estimated by FAO bused un physiological needs far mor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, bady                   TV receivers (per thauuand population) - TV receivers fir broadcast ta geaera
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 1i per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of prteain (grams Per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circauiatn (per thousand peeslatiun) - Shobw  the average ciresla-
capita  net supply of food par day.  Net supply of foad in defined a                     tion of "daily general inarest nevspaper"., deined as  a periodical publi-
above. e Rquire_eucs far all countries established by USDA pruvide fur                   catiu  devoted primarily ti  recording general sews.  It is considered to
a minimum alluwance of 60 gra=s of total protein per day sad 20 graus                    be "daily" if it appears at least four tie.s a week.
of animal and pulse protein,  if which 10 grams should be animal protein.             Linea annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These staudards are lower thus rhase of 75 gras of total pratein and                     meld daring the year,  imcluding ad=issioas to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 gross of aiLmal protein an sn average for the world, propased by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Pratein supply of food               EHFL0YMENT
derived fro  an imals snd pul-es in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands)  - Econorically  -cti-e  persoms, inclading armed
Child (agea  1-I) mortality rate (per thousad) - Annual deaths per thaus-                   famies and unemployed  but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
sad in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tioas in various countries are met comparable.
Female (percent) - Frmale labor force as percentage of total _ab-r force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (petcent) - Laker firce in fsrming, ferestry, hunting snd fishing
Life aupect-n at birth (peace) - Average number mf years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining aSt bith; .u.ally fine-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Indautry (perceut) - Labor force In miuing, c-nstruction, manufac-tring end
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as  percentage of totas  labor force.
Infant mortality rase (pr th ousand) - Annual deatha of imfarts under                   Participation cute (Pert ent) - tutal 'asle, and female - Total, male, and
ann year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female laabr force as percentages of their respective popuSations.
Access to safe waler (percent af population) - total, urban, and rural -                    Chess are IL0's adjusned participatioa  rates refleeting an-sen
Number of peuple (total, urban, and rural) with re.ssoable access to                      structure of rhe pepulation., nd long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Ecoanoic depende-cv rstia - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver to
uncontaminated water such as that fram pratected barehalen, springs,                      the 1bor force in age group  f 15-64  ears
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective papulatios.e
In an urban ares a public fountain ar standpost located eat more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
ihan 200 meters fro. a house may be c-nsidered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (beth in cash and kind) received by richest 5
aonahlr access of tbat house.  In rural areas reasomable access would                     percent, richest 20 pecast, poarest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that thc housewife or members of the househald do net have ta                      of households.
spend a disproportio-ate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eu-reta disposal (percent of papulation) - toalt, urban, and                   Estimated absolute pouerty income level (USS pe- capits) - urban and rural -
ruerl - lumber of people (total, arban, sad rural) served by eacesta                        Absolute poverty inco=e level is that inuon  level below which a minimal
dispusal as  percentages of their respective papulations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adeq.ane diet plus . ssentil san-laud requiremennt  is not
disposal may include the  -ollection and diuposal, with or vithout                        affordable.
treatment, of h=,an eucrana and wasta-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relatine poverty imome level (USS per capita) - arban and rural -
00 the use of pit privies aud similar installations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Popalatiun per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita p-sna  i come of the  oeantry.
physicians qualified from a medical achoal at university leve1.                       Estimaned population belo  paverty  c          le       (percet) - ra  and raral -
Pepulation pee nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of popylation (urban and rural) whe are either "ubsraine poor" or
pranticlg male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative pour" whichever is greater.
assistantnurses.
Econo=ic and Shcial Data Division
Ecoanmic Analysis end Prajectiams Deperteent



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
Us$ Mln_,                                1970 - 76                1977
GNP at Market Prices            6,012         100.0                          8.7                  7.6
Gross Domestic Investment       1,772          29.5                          9.6                 19.2
Gross National Saving           1,515          25.2                         14.4                   3.3
Current Account Balance           -189          3.1                         16.5                  64.5
Exports of Goods, NFS            1,494         24,9                         11.3                 -7.1
Imports of Goods, NFS           1,683          28.0                         11.8                 13.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added               Labor ForceL/          V. A. Per Worker
US-Mln.          %             Mln.    %              US $          %
Agriculture                    1,248          20.3            .923   42.5            1,356        50.1
Industry                       1,029          16.7            .449   20.7            4,873      179.9
Services                       3,875          63.0            .800   36.8            3,053       112.7
Unallocated                      *.._    6.8                                            5        1.
Total/Average                6,152         100.0                  100.0            2,708       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                   Central Government
Sucres Mln.         % of GDP             (Sucres Min.)    % of GDP
1977         1977     1974-76             1977     1977   1974-76
Current Receipts                27,366           17.8       20.3             17,033    11.1      11.6
Current Expenditures            21,659           14.1       12.1             12 352     8.o       6.8
Current Surplus                   5,707           3.7          3                        3.0       4.
Capital Expenditures            13,49c;           8.8       11.5              2,704     1.8       2.4
External Assistance (net)         3,869i          2.5          .5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                      1973        1974         1975        1976         1977
(Million sucres outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                        12,515      17,430       19,816      26,814       32,083
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             - 53      -1,427       -2,134      -2,214       -5,130
Bank Credit to Private Sector                11,444      16,441       21,340      26,568       31,960
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             19.6        18.6         18.3        20.6         20.9
General Price Index (1970 = 100)1/           132.0        162.0       185.3       204.1        230.5
General Price Index (Annual grovth rate)      12.0         22.7        14.4        10.2         12.9
not available
not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job. Labor force for 1977 are estimated based on average
annual grovth rates by sector during the period 1972-76.
2  Implicit GDP deflator.



ANNEX I
Page 6 f 6 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975      1976       19US$ Mus                                          .    %
(Millions US $
Exports of Goods, NFS    1110        1419       1494                 Petroleum                666  53.9
Imports of Goods, NFS   -1295       -1340      -1683                 Bananas                  160  13.0
Resource Gap (deficit                                                 Coffee                  142  11.5
= -)      -.185        79       -189                 Cacao                     45   3.6
Fishery                   31   2.5
Net Factor Payments        -10       -117       -141                 All other commodities  191  15.5
Net Transfers                32        31         17                        Total           1,235 100.0
Balance on Current
Account                 -163          7       -313
Direct Foreign Investment  95         -20         30                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                          US $ Mln
Disbursements          137        233        556
Amortization           -33        -56        -74                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1,155.3
Subtotal               107        177                              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Capital Grants              -          -                                rotal outstanding and disbursed  1,155.3
Other Capital (net)       -102         53        -87
Other items n.i.e.           -         -          -
Increase in Reserves (-)   6         -203       -112                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19T7-/
Gross Reserves (end
year)         312       559        741
Net Reserves (end
year)         257       457        610                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    7.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding and Disbursed  7W
Imports
of which:  Petroleum   1l           7          9
Exports
of which:  Petroleum  617         735        645                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, (De2. 1977)    (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE (Official Rate)                                                                         IBRD   IDA
Through - 1971              Since - 1971                           Outstanding and Disbursed         43.6   35.7
US $ 1.00 = 25 sucres        US $ 1.00   25 sucres                 Undisbursed                      144.9    2.7
S 1.00 = US $                S 1.00 = US $0.04                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 18035  3W
not available
not applicable
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS O]F BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS* (as of October 31, 1978)
-------US$ million---------
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                            Amount
Number   Year         Borrower         Purpose            Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
9 loans and 4 credits fully disbursed                     65.5       28.0
124     1968 (IDA)  Ecuador           Education             -        5.2        .7
555     1969         Ecuador          Fisheries           4.3          -         .6
930     1973         Ecuador          DFC                20.0          -       1.0
425     1974 (IDA)  Ecuador           Irrigation            -        5.5       1.1
1030     1974         Empresa          Water Supply       23.2          -      16.2
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education           4.0          -       3.8
1229     1976         EcuadLor         Seeds               3.0          -       2.6
1230     1976         Ecuador          Technical           4.0          -       3.7
Assistance
1231     1976         Ecuador          Highways           10.5          -       8.2
1255     1976         Guayaquil        Ports              33.5          -      32.5
Port: Authority
1359     1977         Ecuaclor         DFC                26.0          -      16.2
1429     1977         Ecuaclor         Highways           17.5          -      16.0
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture        15.5          -      15.5
S006     1978         Ecuador          Technical          11.0          -       11.0
Assistance
Total                                       238.0       38.7      129.1
of which has been repaid                   54.9        0.4
Total now outstanding                       183.1       38.3
Amount sold                          4.1
of which has been repaid           1.8      2.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA               180.3      38.3
Total undisbursed                            127.3       1.8      129.1
*Includes exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1978)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                        Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.               Textiles    3.7        0.3      4.0
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIEC)                       DFC            -       0.4      0.4
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0             -      5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978          La Cemento Nacional CEM              Cement      12.0       1.0     13.0
Total gross commitments                         20.7       1.7      22.4
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                         2.8      0.5       3.3
Total commitments now held by IFC               17.9       1.2      19.1
Total undisbursed                               12.0       1.0      13.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 124-EC - Education Project: US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date: September 1,
1979.
The project has faced difficulties from the start and is now about
seven years behind schedule. Of the 28 schools involved, work has been com-
pleted in only three, construction is ongoing in three others and the remaining
22, which have been in use for some time, still require substantial work. This
consists primarily in the completion of laboratories and workshops and in the
installation or completion of electricity, water and sewerage connections.
These works are expected to be finished in the third quarter of 1979. The
credit's closing date has, therefore, been extended to September 1, 1979. An
inventory of the work remaining to be done is underway and is to be followed
by the construction/rectification process.
Loan 555-EC - Fisheries Project; US$5.3 million Loan of September 5, 1968;
Effective Date: September 4, 1969; Closing Date: February 1,
1979.
The first component of the project, tuna purse-seiner financing, was
scaled down from 12 to 4 vessels owing to a less than anticipated demand and is
now completed. A second component, the Manta Fishing School, is now operational
although a dispute with the consultant responsible for the training program
has somewhat weakened the school's effectiveness. The final component of the
project, the feasibility study and design of the Manta Port Expansion, is
progressing. The detailecl design of facilities proposed for Manta Port has
been prepared and the fish marketing study is expected to begin soon.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
More than 80 percent of this credit is for equipment and vehicles
for the construction of irrigation and road infrastructure. These components
have progressed well with disbursements on schedule and approximately 80 per-
cent of the work is already completed. In addition, the original project
area of about 7,000 ha was recently expanded to about 11,300 ha. However, the
implementation of on-farm development through credit and extension services
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknessess in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
has been lax due to the understaffing and inexperience of the Agricultural
Production Unit. It is expected that recent organizational changes as well as
the hiring of foreign consultants will improve this situation. The loan
provided financing for consulting services and feasibility studies for a
follow-up project, Milagro II. This project was not found to be technically
feasible, however, and has now been dropped.
Loan 930-EC - Second Development Finance Companies Project; US$20.0 million
Loan of August 17, 1973; Effective Dates: COFIEC February 27,
1974; CFN March 4, 1974; Closing Date: March 30, 1979.
Though behind its original completion schedule of December 31, 1977,
this loan has been entirely committed to sub-borrowers, only about US$1 million
is still undisbursed and no further delays are expected. The project comple-
tion report has already been prepared and it concludes that the loan was
successful in meeting its objectives.
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about 40 months behind schedule and is faced with
important cost over-runs. Tariff increases, additional Government financing
and other remedial measures, have partially rectified this situation and con-
struction is now underway on the project's Guayaquil component. Contracting
of the Santa Elena pipeline -- this operation's single largest component
accounting for about 1/2 of the loan -- is underway and construction is
expected to begin shortly.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1980.
Project implementation is 2-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule due
to frequent managerial changes, serious financial problems, and technical
difficulties with the design and space standards of the Quito and Guayaquil
training centers. A draft of a new Vocational Training Law has been completed.
If adopted, this law would solve many of the financial and managerial problems
which have been encountered. Procurement of construction for the training
centers is expected to take place shortly. The closing date has been extended
by two years to permit the project's conclusion.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project execution, and loan disbursement have proceeded more slowly
than anticipated. However, the implementing institutions (National Seeds
Council, Improved Seeds Company, Department of Seed Certification and the
Project Unit) have been established and staffed. Procurement and construc-
tion are underway and two experts have been hired. A stumbling block is
the difficulty encountered in obtaining adequate operational and adminis-
trative autonomy for the project unit.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The National Rural Development Planning Unit (UNDER) has been estab-
lished but delays in hiring of experts as well as its own staff's lack of
project preparation experience has hampered its effectiveness. The project
recommended in this report was prepared with funds from this loan. Prepara-
tion of the Guayas and Esmeraldas River Basin studies have experienced sub-
stantial delays. Altogether, disbursements are about two years behind
schedule.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Improvement of the Guayaquil-Ambato road, the major civil works
component of the project, has already begun. Moreover, good progress is being
made on most of the projec:t's technical assistance aspects except for contract-
ing of the study to strengthen the country's road construction industry which
is, nevertheless, expected to take place shortly.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 3    1981.
Disbursements are two years behind schedule due, principally, to
the fact that it was agreed to draw down the US$10.0 million provided by co-
financing sources before disbursing funds from the Bank Loan. The dredging
and reclamation works have been initiated and are progressing satisfactorily,
and the contractor's work is in progress. A need to redesign the port
facilities resulted in a dispute between the Port Authority and the contractor
over the cost of the redesigned works. Both sides submitted the dispute to
binding arbitration and have accepted the arbitrator's opinion issued
September 13, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977:
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
Commitments have proceeded faster than anticipated but disburse-
ments are six months behind schedule. These have sped up during the second
half of 1978, thus compensating for this delay. The new financieras that were
expected to receive US$3 million under this loan have not been able to meet
the criteria required for participation. It has been agreed, therefore, to
allocate these funds to CFN (one of Ecuador's two principal finance companies)
with the understanding that they would on-lend the proceeds to these new
financieras.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30. 1981.
After some initial delays, construction of the 25 km Duran-Boliche
Highway was begun in June 1978. Final engineering design of the 29 km Puerto
Ila-Doblones road has been reviewed and the procurement process is underway.
The closing date can still be met if no new slippages occur.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978:
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
After some initial delays in making the loan effective, the project
director has made good progress in the preparatory work for project execution.
Nine banks have already signed subsidiary loan agreements to participate in
the project and several more banks are expected to follow suit shortly. Dis-
bursements are expected to begin in second quarter of FY79.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistant Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3. 1977; Effective Date: March 1. 1978;
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
A contract has already been signed for one of ten selected studies
(the Petrochemical Study) and work is progressing, albeit slowly, on drafting
satisfactory terms of reference and contracts for the others. Two of the four
experts to be hired under the project have been recruited and are already
posted; their services are being paid for by UNDP. To date no disbursements
have been made, but none were foreseen for 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
TUNGURAHUA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: Approximately 2-1/2 years
(b) Project Prepared by: MAG and INHERI with assistance of international
consultants
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: October 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1977
(e) Completion of Negotiations: November 22, 1978
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Terms of reference for the follow-up studies to be prepared would
be submitted by the Government to the Bank for approval no later
than 12 months after signing of the Loan Document (para 53).
(b) An annual investment plan and budget along with an outline for
future project expenditures would be prepared by the Project Unit
and submitted to the Bank two months before the start of the year
in question (para 56).
(c) The Project Unit would prepare a detailed plan for the Chibuleo
Area Development component and submit it to the Bank no later than
six months after signing of the Loan Agreement (para 57).
(d) The Ambato Power Company would prepare a detailed plan for the
electrification component and submit it to the Bank for approval no
later than 12 months after signing of the Loan Agreement (para 59).
(e) A Coordinating Board -- composed of senior MAG officials, the
President of the National Planning Board, the Directors of
INHERI and IERAC, the Governor of Tungurahua and farmer



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
representatives as well as the Project Director -- would be
established to supervise the project's timely execution. An
Advisory Board, made up of the regional directors of the various
participating agencies along with the Project Director and
representatives of the Project Beneficiaries, would also be set
up to facilitate coordination at the regional level. Both
boards would be established within six months of the signing of
the Loan Agreement (para 55).
(f) Beneficiaries of irrigation infrastructure would repay to the
Government, through water charges, the operation and maintenance
of irrigation systems and the full recovery of the investment
costs of these works. These water charges would be adjusted
periodically to take account of inflation (para 65).
(g) The Government would establish a project revolving fund in the
Central Bank, no later than June 30, 1979. It would deposit
therein the equivalent of US$500,000 and replenish the fund, as
needed, so as to maintain it at that level (para 61).
(h) The cost of the seedlings would be fully recovered through
adequate sales prices (para 66).
(i) The Project Unit would be assisted by an extension services
specialist, an agricultural engineer and a horticulturist who
would be recruited no later than six months after signing of the
Loan Agreement (para 54).
(j) A condition of effectiveness would be that a Project Director,
and a consultant for administration, acceptable to the Bank, had
been appointed (para 54).
(k) A condition of disbursement for each component would be that the
Bank had received and approved the relevant subsidiary project
agreement between MAG and the concerned agency (para 60).
(1) A condition of disbursement for the Quero-Ladrillos irrigation
works would be that the Bank had approved the final design for
these works (para 57).



zo' Y   <                     o                   |IL wsl r  STlarKexclilsJvdvfr                            Tosun.hpoPIL L A                                  R    OARC
N-            C O LO MBI A
_                      o-   omelm61V  t  lp/
A  r   _                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrdBo-ocnro affdOrOOl/. mr v/                                                
IA.boto
E C U      A D O R
,  ,   ,f,,,v              ,                                                                 f  (I                                              S MigoeIlto
.   - P E R U        ',     -         [BRAZIL                                                ,                                       
V~~~~~~~
/p  PARAMOS ,
9 n ; > |E Ro.u;i~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  L  < z7
tG~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                              +> SfMi A                                                              =t t .
Vico
R. i Ired areas
C'ul~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F ? LOSSO/ -- 
zX   0   0 0 ;i</CX 4   00; HOCALO                                             P              0                                                /
N-_HUAMRA 0ds                                                                               A  -                       A       '  ' Ci
PANAPAN                                              p
E iVEvsting part..Ily sr,,g.t.d  areas';:. Q; YAY5JLtreil  0   
rr,gated areas  z e i4 # X//                      st7ANrCaN10 D0                                   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'/eMCCHAPATAX
Ra nfed areas                         3;                  v_/       RUMIRAMBASe     /w      iT-            
-   n--rm Ivsmns-                                             j                                            E              ' '}EL ROSARIO 
jz                X                aYU~~~~~~~~IHALCANGASAN CL1L     ig AtCNGP SAN IRANCI5CO
>'     HUALCANGA SAN        i)  g48   ~~~~SAN PED5RO DE 5ASANAG
0~~~~0~~~~0 ~~~SABANAG
Xf  {                 O~~~~~ 1      2      3       4      5      V      7      a                \ 
,_ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _      o   r_ _ _ _ __r  _ _ _ __K_m._
fMfkS-
|           i$J~~~~oR,OOOOO  +}oTblarh______________                                                                                 ('?oIIopo                                |TOGJoa doo         - W



