Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19746
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Loan No. 3384-BG
June 26,2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 10, 2000)
Currency Unit          =           Bulgarian Lev
US$1               =               L1.85
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AECD        Agency for Economtic Coordination and Development
AEAF       Agency for Economic Analysis and Forecasting
BNB       Bulgarian National Bank
BSP       Bulgarian Socialist Party
CPT       Committee of Posts and Telecommunications
FIA      Foreign Investment Agency
GOB       Government of Bulgaria
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MLSP       Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MLSW        Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
MOAFAR         Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agrarian Reform
MOE       Ministy of Education
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOH        Ministry of Health
MOI       Ministry of Industry
MOT       Ministry of Trade
MRDC        Ministry of Regional Development and Construction
MRDPW         Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works
NSI      National Statistical Institute
NSSI      National Social Security Institute
PA      Privatization Agency
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
SAL       Strctural Adjustment Loan
SBA       Stand-By Arrangement
SSEC       Securities and Exchange Commission
TA       Technical Assistance
UDF       Union of Democratic Forces
BULGARIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:    Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Andrew Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Director:    Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Team Leader:        Kyle Peters, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Loan No. 3384-BG
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..............i
Part L Project Implementation Assessment
A.        Objectives, Background and Description ...............1.............,.,..I
B.   Achievement of Objectives                             .3
C.        Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project    .      7
D.   Project Sustainability .11
E.  Bank Performance .12
F.  Borrower Performance .13
G.  Assessment of Outcome .14
H.  Future Operations .15
1.  Key Lessons Leared .15
List of Tables
Table 1: Supervision Reviews of the TAL 1991-99 ...............................................8
Table 2: Summary of Loan Extensions ...............................................8
Table 3: Summary of Amendments to Loan Agreement ............................................9
Table 4: Implementing Agencies for the TAL ............................................... 9
Table 5: Changes of Government During Project Implementation ........................... 10
Part IL Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..............         ................................ 18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..............................................  19
Table 3: Project Timetable .............................................. 20
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual    ....................... 20
Table 5: Key Indicators for the TAL Implementation ........................................... 21
Table 6: Key Indicators for the TAL Operation ..............................................  24
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ..............    ................................ 24
Table 8A: TAL Project Costs            .......................... 26
Table 8B: TAL Project Financing           .......................... 26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .                                           27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........       ................ 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................   28
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  ......................................... 28
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Supervision and Missions  ......................................... 28
ANNEXES
A. Transmittal Letter from  the Government ...............                                .......................... 29
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR .................................................................... 30
C. ICR Mission Back-to-Office Report .......................... 32
D. Map IBRD 26532R



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Loan No. 3384-BG
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) covers the Technical Assistance
Project for Economic Reform Loan (TAL) for US$17 million, approved by the Board on
June 27, 1991, and made effective on January 9, 1992. The TAL closed on June 30,
1999, five years after the original closing date. In the final year, only the loan account
remained open to complete disbursements on ongoing commitments. The time period
covered by this ICR is roughly mid-1991 to mid-1999.
This ICR was prepared by Richard Carroll and is based on a field mission during
June 21-28, 1999, interviews with project personnel and Bank staff and materials from the
project file. Philippe Nouvel was the Division Chief when the TAL was presented to the
Board and Andrew Vorkink was the Country Director at the time the Loan closed. In
Bulgaria, Marin Bogdanov (head of the PIU at the MOF), Alberto Neyra (consultant to
PIU), Roumen Tarkalanov (National Social Security Institute), Alexandra Ivanova
(Ministry of Education, Science and Technology), Ekaterina Kolchakova and Emilia
Lazarova (Privatization Agency), Dimitre Matev (Ministry of Labor and Social Policy),
Peter Rendov (Working Group on BTC Privatization) and Lada Stoyanova (World Bank
field office) provided input to the ICR. At World Bank headquarters, Eduardo Somensatto
(CE1ED, a task manager for the TAL), Nery Mangosing-Koeppen, (Sr. Operations Analyst,
ECCOI, a task manager for the TAL), Elaine Patterson, Tom Hoopengardner (ECSHD)
and Barbara Szaszkiewicz (a task manager for the TAL-1997) and Kyle Peters (ECSPE,
final Task Manager for the TAL) provided input. The ICR was reviewed by Pervaiz
Rashid (Lead Specialist, ECSPE).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TH:E REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Loan No. 3384-BG
EVALUATION SUMMARY'
Overview
1.   The Technical Assistance Loan for Economic Reform (TAL) was one of the more
complex and dynamic projects the Bank has ever implemented. The TAL could be
characterized as a fill-all-the-gaps project, with no less than 26 sub-components under
five broad components, and 101 major activities identified at appraisal. In that sense, it
was not different from other Bank TA loans designed for countries in transition. Like
these loans for transition countries, the TAL's role was to develop implementation
capacity in order to increase the effectiveness of the much larger (US$250 million)
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). The challenges to TAL's implementation went well
beyond its complex design. There was political instability in Bulgaria during the life of
the TAL in which there were six changes in Government going back and forth between
the socialists and the Union of Democratic forces and coalitions thereof. The TAL was
extended five times from its original closing date of June 30, 1994 to the final closing
date of June 30, 1999. During the 7.5 years of effectiveness (from January 9, 1992),
there were seven amendments to the Loan Agreement.  In addition, certain sub-
components were not carried out, either because of the availability of grant funds, or
because of a change in Government (of which there were six), and many activities not
envisioned at appraisal were financed reflecting revised government priorities.
Project Objectives
2.  The objective of the TAL was "to strengthen the government institutions/agencies,
which have a central role to play in the reform effort, by creating an effective and
efficient enabling environment in support of private sector development, and to finance
the needed technical help to the extent that financing cannot be obtained from other
sources on concessional terms."
The Implementation Completion Report for the TAL covers actions and events in Bulgaria relating to this
operation from preparation until mid-1999.



ii                                             Implementation Completion Report
Project Description, Implementation Experience and Results
3.   Bulgaria's most immediate needs were the development of the managerial,
institutional and technological capabilities to make the transition to a market economy.
The three priority areas of the transition were in the privatization and restructuring of
enterprises, and the financial and energy sectors. Social safety nets were included to ease
the pain of reform.
4.   The Government of Bulgaria (GOB) recognized that it lacked the broad range of
experience and institutional capacity necessary to design and implement structural
reforms and to manage a private sector economy. The TAL was designed to help build
these capacities. The TAL addressed skills needs in five major areas, which together
with project goals were necessary to support Bulgaria in its transition to a market
economy. These areas with original loan allocations, including expected financing from
other sources, were (in millions of dollars):
i.   Private Sector Development, Privatization and Restructuring (Subtotal
US$12.6)
ii.  Bank Restructuring and Reform (Subtotal US$4.5)
iii. Human Resource Development (Subtotal US$6. 1)
iv.  Energy Sector (Subtotal US$1.4)
v.  Institutional Development (Subtotal US$4.5)
5.   Project accounts were maintained by the manager of the Project Implementation
Unit (PRJ) under the Ministry of Finance.
Summary of Major Accomplishments
6.  In reviewing both achievement of objectives and implementation record (section
C), it is important to keep in mind that the TAL was the first operation (along with the
SAL) in Bulgaria, which was newly out of the Soviet sphere. The initiatives under the
TAL were launched in a very uncertain environment, and attempted to facilitate a major
transition from  a centrally planned to an open, free market system.  On project
development objectives while the TAL recorded overall unsatisfactory ratings at
supervision, all components' implementation ratings, except that of the Banking
Restructuring component, were consistently rated satisfactory.
7.   The TAL financed many components through many (18) implementing agencies
and even though it fell 28 percent short of its original allocation, in view of the
availability of grant funds and changed government priorities, nevertheless it supported
activities and resources that had development impacts across a range of activities that
outweighed the expenditures. The vast range of objectives accomplished is a testament to
the positive impact of the TAL. A detailed checklist of objectives by component and
their record of achievement are found in statistical Table 5.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                              iii
Bank Performance
8.  The Bank, with the GOB, created a complex and overly specific project that,
despite sometimes poor implementation, had a strong positive development impact. The
Bank coped well with the challenges of working in a new country in difficult
circumstances undergoing a radical transformation, and rapidly became more
knowledgeable of Bulgaria and its capacities. The Bank's overall performance is rated as
satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
9.   As measured by its commitment to effectively utilize the resources of the TAL to
develop the capacity to carry out structural reforms, the GOB performance is considered
satisfactory. The Government committed to a detailed program of capacity building and
accomplished most of its objectives specified under the loan. Although the socialist
regime slowed implementation, the Bank's patience paid off, and much was
accomplished in the later extension periods. Performance was especially good in the
Legal, Enterprise Reform, and Institutional Development components. Procurement
capacity developed well. The GOB used the TAL effectively to pre-finance start-up
activities for the Social Insurance Administration (SIA) Project, which, largely because
of this jump-start, was a highly satisfactory performer.
Future Operations
10. TAL was followed by SAL I, which closed in FY95. The SAL I goal was to
achieve macroeconomic stability and reform and lay foundations for sustained private-
sector led growth over the medium term. As noted, the TAL was designed to support a
strengthening of the Government's institutional capacity to implement the SAL reform
program. The Rehabilitation Loan (closed FY97) and the Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (closed FY98) were the next most closely related operations. The
negotiation of Bulgaria's Debt and Debt Service Reduction Agreement, which was
supported by the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Operation, benefited from the
technical capacity created under the TAL. Current related operations include the SIA
Project, approved in FY97, and the Social Protection Adjustment Loan, approved in
FY99. All these following operations benefited to some extent from the institutional
support and capacity building aspects of the TAL.
Lessons Learned
11. The main lessons learned are:
0 In uncertain environments, project design should be based on the
economic/institutional work and not over specify project activities. The
TAL not only had very broad coverage, but activities were very specifically
defined, even though the environment was uncertain and the Bank had little
country knowledge. Lack of institutional analysis made it difficult to identify a
manageable priority list of fundable activities. In more certain environments,



iv                                             Implementation Completion Report
specificity has the advantage of making sure the finds are used for an
appropriate purpose. In Bulgaria, a better approach might have been to avoid
long lists of very specific activities with assigned dollar amounts in favor of
being more indicative of appropriate activities and greater flexibility in project
design for additional technical assistance.
Reform can go awry without properly done studies. The case of the banking
restructuring study demonstrated that prospects for effective reform are
damaged when the underlying study is inadequate and does not have borrower
ownership. Mechanisms to ensure quality of such studies and their country
focus are necessary to provide support to Government on reforms in design and
implementation of reforms. Some blame for the financial crisis in 1996 is
attributed to the poor implementation of banking reform.
) Adequate training for all sub-PIUs in the administrative aspects of
implementation. All implementing agencies, not just the central PIU, need the
capacity to perform the basics of implementation, including budgeting and
budget control, contract negotiation and performance monitoring. The TAL
implementation would have been much better and the central PIU would not
have had to micromanage the activities of the many implementing agencies.
Ownership by all implementing agencies for concerted and prompt
implementation. The reluctance to move forward once the individual activities
were identified can be minimized if the design of component activities involves
the personnel who will ultimately implement the component. The "top-downn"
approach of the TAL design hurt implementation by undermining ownership on
both the borrower and the Bank, and contributing to sluggish implementation.
Flexible, stand alone TAs can be a crucial resource in transition economies.
Although theoretically, a project is implemented according to a specific plan, in
practice, many TA projects in transition economies have unused funds to be
drawn on whenever an activity arises that can further project objectives.
Examples include the equipment for the NSSI and the privatization of BTC.
Advantage/Disadvantage of a tight timetable. The disadvantage of the tight
timetable is the increased likelihood of the need for extensions of project
closing date in order to accomplish project objectives. This disadvantage is
acceptable if the tight timetable helps focus the country on the needed reforms
and other commitments at a time when the country is most disposed to reform,
that is, when there is economic adversity. In the case of the TAL, the many
changes of Government undermined the value of a tight timetable.
0 Implementation flexibility to maximize effectiveness of loan proceeds.
Flexibility on project components during implementation is important to
maximize the project's positive impact in changing circumstances, e.g.,
reallocating project funds to other uses when component objectives can be
achieved without project funds as in the case of bank restructuring and energy
sector reviews.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                v
0 Firm stance on extensions. The Bank should make a more explicit accounting
of the possible effects of multiple extensions of projects, especially when the
Govemnment, at times, does not show strong support for implementation. A
firm stance often heightens compliance with subsequent agreements. The Bank
may have lost some leverage by granting five extensions to the TAL, rather
than restructuring or closing the project. On the other hand, if the TAL had
closed on time, the GOB and the Bank would not have been able to seize
opportunities as they arose to finance critical consultancies and equipment.
Umbrella TA projects are expensive to supervise. The cost of supervision of
umbrella TA projects because of their many components and activities, (in this
case, spread over 18 implementing agencies) is high and should be adequately
budgeted.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THlE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Loan No. 3384-BG
PART 1. PROjECr IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. OBJECTIVES, BACKGROUND AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.   Bulgaria joined the IBRD in September 1990. The Technical Assistance Project
for Economic Reform (TAL) for US$17 million was approved by the Board on June 27,
1991 and made effective on January 9, 1992. The original closing date was June 30,
1994, but was extended five times and finally closed on June 30, 1999. During the final
year, the loan account remained open to complete disbursements on ongoing
commitments. The TAL was one of the first two operations by the World Bank in
Bulgaria, and was designed to support the US$250 million Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) which was approved on August 1, 1991 (effective on September 27, 1991).
Objectives
2.   The objective of the TAL was "to strengthen the government institutions/agencies,
which have a central role to play in the reform effort, by creating an effective and
efficient enabling environment in support of private sector development, and to finance
the needed technical help to the extent that financing cannot be obtained from other
sources on concessional terms."
Background (up to effectiveness, January 1992)
3.   Bulgaria had been heavily dependent on the Soviet Union. When it separated, it
was left with high external debt and limited institutional capacity. Severe external debt
threatened the sustainability of the reform program that the Government of Bulgaria
(GOB) had already begun. By the end of 1990, total debt was 50 percent of GDP and
120 percent of exports. Bulgaria's most immediate needs were developing managerial,
institutional and technological capabilities to make the transition to a market economy.
The three priority areas of the transition were in the privatization and restructuring of
enterprises, and in the financial and energy sectors. Social safety nets were included to
mitigate the social costs of reform.
4.   The GOB initiated a number of reforms for the transition, which included price and
trade liberalization, exchange rate and land reform. The Government took the lead in



2                                              Implementation Completion Report
privatization, including passage of important laws and establishment of a Privatization
Agency (PA) prior to the TAL. The GOB also took measures to improve the operations
of enterprises that would remain state-owned in the near term. In the financial sector, the
Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) was restructured during 1987-89.
Description of Original TAL
5.   The GOB recognized that it lacked the broad range of experience and institutional
capacity necessary to design and implement structural reforms and manage a private
sector economy. The TAL was designed to help build these capacities. The TAL
addressed skills needs in five major areas. These areas with original loan allocations,
including expected financing from other sources, were (in millions of dollars):
i.   Private Sector Development, Privatization and Restructuring (Subtotal
US$12.6)
ii.  Bank Restructuring and Reform (Subtotal US$4.5)
iii. Human Resource Development (Subtotal US$6. 1)
iv.  Energy Sector (Subtotal US$1.4)
v.  Institutional Development (Subtotal US$4.5)
6.   Estimated project costs were US$33.5 million of which the IBRD was to finance
US$17 million, the ULK Know How Fund US$1.3 million, the European Commission
(EC-PHARE) US$13.2 million and the GOB US$2.0 million. The IBRD loan was to
finance only foreign costs and included US$9.4 million for consultancies and studies,
US$1.8 million for equipment, US$1.2 million for training, and a large unallocated
portion of US$4.6 million. The loan was 72 percent disbursed by project close (US$4.9
million was cancelled). The TAL, as represented in the June 4, 1991 President's Report,
was soon out of date because a large part of the financing, US$13.2 million (from EC-
PHARE) out of US$33.5 million never materialized. Further discussions on funds from
other financiers are in the section on Bank Performance. In the end, EC-PHARE funded
large amounts of technical assistance through grants, but not as a TAL cofinancier.
7.   Project accounts were maintained by the manager of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) under the Ministry of Finance.
Rationale for Project Design
8.   As in all other countries making the transition from communism to a free market
economy, the Government needed infusions of expertise in developing the policy and
institutional mechanisms to carry out a privatization program, and, more specifically, a
TAL. The TAL would provide this expertise through a wide variety of legal, managerial
and other consultancies. A modern accounting system was also needed as well as the
very establishment of the accounting and audit profession in order to develop good
governance and transparency simultaneously with the transition to a free market
economy. The legal system had begun to be revamped to be consistent with a market
economy, but there would have to be emphasis on implementation and enforcement. In



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                3
the energy sector, the Government needed support for reform through energy studies to
find ways to reduce the energy intensiveness of Bulgarian industry.
9.  In the area of social safety nets, because of the transformation from a centrally
planned to a market economy, Bulgaria needed a complete overhaul of its welfare
system. Under the previous system, welfare took the form of a complex system of
subsidies and transfers that permeated all aspects of the economy. Under a market
regime, the safety net was to be converted primarily to a system of support to the
unemployed through placement services and compensation. Social security and health
systems (under the Human Resource Development component) also needed substantial
legal groundwork and managerial training in order to operate under a new economic
system. The educational system needed a comprehensive review and recommendations
for reforms in school curricula, as well as a legislation to allow greater financial
flexibility in funding schools. The GOB also required a whole range of other institutional
assistance to support the economic reform program, particularly in the areas of trade, debt
management, statistics, and economic analysis.
10. The TAL was thus designed at a time when the GOB needed support to carry out
reforms in a wide range of sectors and activities. The TAL was a complex project, which
attempted to provide assistance to as many institutions in as many areas as possible. The
resulting design, sometimes referred to as a "Christmas Tree," proved very difficult to
implement, and by the time the project was completed it had strayed from the original
plan and had canceled 28 percent of the original loan despite five extensions. The
philosophy was that it was better to be comprehensive and try to meet as wide a variety
of needs as possible to minimize the risk that the reform program would be thwarted by
an uncovered institutional need.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
11.  In reviewing both achievement of objectives and implementation record (section
C), it is important to keep in mind that the TAL was the first operation (along with the
SAL) in Bulgaria, which was newly out of the Soviet sphere. The initiatives under the
TAL were launched in an environment that attempted a major transition from a centrally
planned to an open, free market system.
Summary of Major Accomplishments
12. The TAL financed many components through many implementing agencies and
even though it fell 28 percent short of its original allocation (as certain activities were
financed by other donors), nevertheless it supported activities and resources that had
development impacts that outweighed the expenditures. The vast range of objectives
accomplished is a testament to the high impact of the TAL as well as its over complexity.
A detailed checklist of objectives by component and their record of achievement are in
statistical Table 5.



4                                             Implementation Completion Report
Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization
13.  Privatization of larger companies.   The TAL  supported the Bulgarian
privatization program through funding and non-funding means.  The TAL helped
arrange, but did not fund the Monitoring Unit, under the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
which monitored the larger companies, tracked their profitability losses and general
performance. The TAL did provide substantial funding for consultancies to advise
troubled companies that were "privatizable."  Both the Monitoring Unit and the
individual consultancies were valuable in the preparation of higher value companies for
privatization. The consultancy to assist the GOB in the privatization of the Bulgaria
Telecom Company (BTC) was the final activity of the TAL. The privatization, while not
generating the foreign investor interest that the Bulgarians had hoped, still was important
not only in terms of the proceeds from the sale, but, more importantly, because the
privatization of BTC meant that BTC would be more apt to keep pace with rapidly
developing technology in the telecommunications sector.
14. Securities and Exchange. The TAL-financed consultancies were instrumental in
drafting the Securities, Stock Exchanges and Investment Companies Act. The consultant
prepared the drafts of the legislation and trained local counterparts. The performance was
rated highly by the client (GOB). The TAL-financed computer equipment, which not
only supported the consultancy, but gave general support to the Legal Department of the
Council of Ministers.
15. Accounting. The GOB made significant progress, but with EC-PHARE rather than
TAL financing. Broad legislation governing accounting practices was prepared and
enacted by Parliament and is consistent with International Accounting Standards and the
European Union Directives on accounting. The staff of the National Accountancy
Department of the MOF was trained in connection with the legislation and acquired a
foundation of understanding of international accounting practices. The EC-PHARE
program also supported the general development of accounting capacity.
16. Legal. The legal component was very successful and contributed significantly to
legal reform, particularly in its support of drafting new legislation, even though
enactment fell behind schedule. Specifically, the TAL-funded a resident legal advisor
(RLA) and other consultants who (a) reviewed and commented on the Land Law; (b)
contributed to drafting of the Bankruptcy Code and the Composition Law; (c) contributed
to the Law on Obligations and Contracts; (d) made outlines of laws to establish notaries;
(e) provided a draft of the Public Procurement Law; (f) assisted in the preparation of
Securities and Stock Exchange Law; and (g) commented on Privatization Laws. The
legal inputs were valuable in all aspects, but the impact was greatest with respect to
securities, procurement, notaries and privatization, as shown by the rapid development of
these functions.
Bank Restructuring and Reform
17. The study on "Structural Issues of the Banking System" was financed by the TAL,
while other originally envisioned activities under the component were financed through



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                               5
other donor support. The study contributed to achieving a quantitative target of bank
consolidations and other technical guidance, but did not succeed in the goal of guiding
the restructuring process and for laying the foundation of a well functioning banking
system.
Energy Sector
18. The energy component was reduced because the GOB found other groups to do the
power sector studies on pricing, rehabilitation and organization, and the expanded use of
gas study for free. The TAL ended up financing the nuclear safety study. The study was
well received and its conclusions were confirmed separately by other sources. The GOB
implemented a number of the safety recommendations for the Kozloduy plant.
Human Resources Development
19. The TAL-financed work in the education sector cost a modest amount
(US$350,000), but had a major impact. The project on "Establishment of National
Standards for Secondary  Education"  was especially  effective.    Almost all
recommendations from  TAL consultancies were implemented.  The Ministry of
Education (MOE) expressed a high level of satisfaction with the expertise financed under
the TAL. In short, the TAL helped the Bulgarian school system modernize in key areas
and better allocate resources available to education. A total of seven sub-projects were
financed under the TAL:
0 Alternative Sources for Financing Education-more flexible financing between
budget line items was achieved, school fees introduced, vocational school
products sold, etc.
> Establishment of Revolving Fund for Textbooks- helped develop private
textbook publishers as well as supply textbooks to students.
> Improvement of the Material and Technical Basis in Education-drafted plans to
upgrade school buildings.
> Identifying Alternative Sources of financing for Scientific Research-provided
the basis of the National Research Program.
> Foreign Language Training and Upgrading in Bulgarian Schools.
> System of Inspection and Teachers Evaluation.
> Establishment of National Standards for Secondary Education-desperately
needed to improve the pedagogical aspects, in particular the practical
application of the basic disciplines.
Health
20. By contrast, there was very little activity in the health sector under the TAL,
despite the long list of needs originally solicited by the Bank from the GOB. The main
activities were three consultancies conducted for the Ministry of Health (MOH) for
Health Sector Performance and Management, Food Safety and Nutrition, and the
development of the PHC (primary health care) component and the selection of 25
municipalities to participate. The latter task established a package of essential PHC



6                                             Implementation Completion Report
services that each of the 25 municipalities would provide. The TAL was also to finance a
nutrition component for the Bank's Health Sector Reform Project, but that component
was later dropped.
Institutional Development
21. The TAL funds were important in building the implementation capacity of a
number of government agencies.
22. Committee of Posts and Telecommunications (CPT). A consultancy with the
CPT reviewed its role in the telecom sector in Bulgaria, recommended changes in laws
and regulations and proposed restructuring CPT including new operating methods and
approval procedures. The TBASE financial and economic model was introduced to
improve tariff calculations and assess the effects of policy changes. The consultants, it
was reported, worked well with Bulgarian counterparts, which assured that
recommendations were appropriate. Workshops and training sessions enhanced local
ownership of the proposals.
23.  Other agencies.   Several other agencies received small amounts, which
nevertheless had an important impact on their operations.  The National Statistical
Institute (NSI) received computer equipment that improved data processing as well as
statistical publishing. The Agency for Economic Analysis and Forecasting also received
computer equipment to carry out its work of economic forecasting and developing
national programs. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works (MRDPW)
was supported by consultancies and hardware, which supported the MRDPW's training
of staff, interagency coordination (with the Council of Regional Policy, Trans-Border
Infrastructure Systems and local authorities), and administrative-territorial reform. The
MRDPW did point out that the consultants' contributions did not conform to the
Bulgarian context. For the Foreign Investment Agency, the TAL-financed equipment,
training tours and the production of the first investment guide for Bulgaria.  The
guidebook helped foreign investors understand the business environment in Bulgaria.
24. The Ministry of Industry (MOI) did not use its US$0.2 million allocation under the
TAL until very late in the project. The reasons were that other sources of funds (from
EC-PHARE) were available and the MOI was satisfied with the projects financed
thereunder. With the equivalent of US$14 million of grant funding from other sources,
the MOI was unable to submit any additional projects that the TAL could finance. MOI
pointed out that the TAL was a general prescription for Central and Eastern Europe
countries experiencing similar developments, but was not tailored to the situation in
Bulgaria. Specifically, MOI stated that the belief that privatization would take place
through the participation of foreign investors turned out to be unrealistic both in terms of
Bulgarian acceptance and of the supply of willing foreign investors.
25.  In summary, the objectives of the TAL were largely accomplished by the extended
closing date of June 30, 1999. Some of the activities originally envisioned under the
TAL, although not carried out under the TAL, were ultimately financed, mainly with
grants from other sources, especially EC-PHARE. The availability of TAL funds also



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                7
made it possible to finance several unexpected activities as opportunities arose, including
the BTC privatization and the provision of hardware to the NSSI. The performance of
the TAL should be viewed as a part of a continuous effort from supporting the SAL, to
longer-term development of institutional capacity, and the various follow-up loans during
Bulgaria's transition.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFEcTING THE PROJECT
26. The TAL had paradoxical ratings through most of its life. Individual components,
with the exception of Bank Restructuring and Enterprise Restructuring (up to July 1997)
were consistently rated as satisfactory, but development objectives were consistently
rated unsatisfactory until the very end of the project (Table 1). The unsatisfactory rating
of the Bank Restructuring component might have been due to the fact that the TAL
financed only one of its subcomponents. However, this result was mainly because the
GOB found more favorable funding for its activities elsewhere.  The Enterprise
Restructuring Component did not accomplish much until late in the TAL (from July 1997
onward). The paradoxical ratings may be explained by supervision missions' strong
distinction between implementation progress and attainment of project development
objectives. Components, which had some improvement in implementation, tended to
receive a satisfactory rating, even if the activities were small in the context of the whole
project.
27. At loan approval in June 1991, the Bank and the GOB envisioned that this broad
and detailed program could be carried out within two and a half years. Effectiveness was
delayed until January 1992 and so the project had barely two years for implementation,
which, as the multiple extensions show, was not nearly enough time. The many
extensions are summarized in Table 2. In addition to the extensions, the Loan Agreement
required seven amendments, often to add another implementing agency, which are
documented in Table 3. There was no mid-term review and the reason was that the
implementation period of the project was short and each time it would have made sense
to do so, it appeared that the TAL was about to close. Extending each time by only single
year also meant that the project's remairiing life was too short to warrant a mid-term
review.



8                                                        Implementation Completion Report
Table 1: Supervision Reviews of the TAL 1991-99
PSR/590 Date    6/30/99  12/23/98  7/23/98  6/26/98  7/2/97  10/28/96  3A/1I96  6/7/95  6/3a093  6J30/91
Component
Enterprise. Privatization  S   S       S       S       S       U      NR      NR     NR      NR
Bank Restructuring.   NR       S       U       U       U       U      NR      NR     NR      NR
Energy                NR       S       S       S       S       S      NR      NR     NR      NR
Human Resources       NR       S       S       S       S       S      NR      NR     NR      NR
Institutional Develop.  NR     S       S       S       S       S      NR      NR     NR      NR
Implementation Prog.   S       S       S       S       S       U       U      U       S      NR
Proj. DeveL Objectives    S    S       U       U       U       U       U       U      S      NR
Project Management     S       S       S       S       S       S      HS      HS      S      NR
Procurement            S       S       S       S       S       S       U       U      S      NR
Financial Covenants.   S      NR       NR     NR      NR      NR       S       S      S      NR
Other Covenants        S       S       S       S       S       S       S       S      S      NR
Table 2: Summary of Loan Extensions
New
Date     Close
Granted    Date                                    Reason
1.  12/7/93    6/30/95   Complete ongoing and new activities, and initiate planned activities. (Project
objectives were only beginning to be reached, procurement process, technical
specifications and tenders had just gainied momentum, but more time needed for
completion. The TAL had to continue its commitment because it was the only
soturce of fluds for many of these activities at the time.
2.  5/8/95    6/30/96   Revised implementation, disbursement and financing plans were submitted. The
TAL provided a unique source of funds for Committee of Posts and
Telecommunications (CP&T), and nuclear energy study. These studies were not in
the budget, nor were funding available from other sources. Project annual reports
show new activities: CP&T regulation and policy study, Foreign Investment
Commission institutional strengthening, Ministry of Regional Development and
Construction guidelines to decentralize local governents.     _
3.  7/5/96    6/30/97   Submission of New Action Plan and Timetable for completion of TAL activities.
Several activities had just begun.
4.  4/9/97    6/30/98   New Action Plan, especially regarding the BTC privatization, Enterprise
Restructuring and Privatization of the Banking Sector. The latter was not activated
__   ___   (see Loan  eement amendment No. 5).  _ ___            __
5.  4/30/98    6/30/99   Extension of Loan Account only. Loan account to remain open for 12 months for
three BTC related activities. Consultant invoices to be dated before June 30, 1999.
28. Factors not generally subject to Government's control. The changes in the
Government itself created major difficulties for the project. Understandably, certain
Government was less committed to the spirit of many of the free market measures
supported by the TAL. Other Bank projects suffered equally especially in 1995 and
1996. Including the transitional caretaker governments, there were no less than six
changes of government, mainly alternating between the socialists and the Union of
Democratic Forces. Table 5 summarizes the changes in governments from project
preparation to project close. During the socialist government and the transitions of the



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                        9
many changes of government, the TAL was in more of a wait-and-see mode than in full
implementation.
Table 3: Summary of Amendments to Loan Agreement
Date                                     Reason
11/1/93        Incorporate new I.A.s and activities, reflecting the reorganization of
govemment, and to replace Annex to Schedule 2 of the L.A.
12/13/93       P.A. makes Steering Committee, 3.03(a) and (b) of L.A.
12/9/94        P.I.U. performs duties slated for PCC-Delete 1.02(a), modify 3.02(a), delete
3.02(b).
3/27/96         Add SSEC to NSSI activities to Section 1.02 and reorganization of other
activities.
2/18/97         Banking Consolidation Co. joined the TAL (but ultimately not activated in
TAL)
6/19/97         Include in Part E of L.A.: Advisory services to the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry, and Agrarian Reform.
7/17/98      . Loan conversion to single currency pool.
Note: I.A.-hnplementing Agency, L.A. - Loan Agreement.
Table 4: Implementing Agencies for the TAL
1.           Agency for Economic Coordination and Development
2.           Bulgarian National Bank
3.           Committee of Posts and Telecommunications
4.           Foreign Investment Agency
5.           Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
6.           Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agrarian Reform
7.           Ministry of Education
8.           Ministry of Finance
9.           Ministry of Health
10.          Ministry of Industry
11.          Ministry of Justice
12.          Ministry of Trade
13.          Ministry of Regional Development and Construction
14.          National Statistical Institute
15.          National Social Security Institute
16.          Nuclear Agency-CUAEPP
17.          Privatization Agency
18.          Securities and Exchange Commission



10                                            Implementation Completion Report
Table 5: Changes of Government During Project Implementation
Dates                            Type of Government
6/90-9/91    Multi (All) party coalition.
9/91-9/92    Union of Democratic Forces (UJDF) coalition with Rights and Liberties
party.
9/92-10/94   Socialist Party coalition with Rights and Liberties party.
10/94-12/94  Caretaker government-nominated by President (from UDF).
1/95-1/97    Socialist party elected majority.
2/97-5/97    Caretaker government appointed by UDF President.
5/97-Present UDF party elected majority.
29.  Factors generally subject to Government control.  The GOB was properly
opportunistic in using grant funds to carry out a number of activities previously identified
under the TAL, thus obviating TAL funds. It meant that the TAL did not neatly
implement what it was originally designed to, but the important thing to Bulgaria's
development was that the capacity building activities were carried out.
30. One area where the Government may have been overly cautious or frugal was in
the legal component. Under the legal component, the MOF was reluctant to approve the
legal consultants' contract because of high cost. The contract was reduced in scope and
duration and required intervention from the Prime Minister to be ultimately approved.
Despite these alterations, the legal component was one of, if not the, most successful
components in the TAL, in terms of development impact.
31. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The MOF worked
well with the Bank and established a central PIU that was very effective and gave good
support to the 18 implementing agencies (Table 4) and their PIUs. The individual agency
PIUs had a mixed performance. The Ministry of Energy had an effective PIJ and
implemented its TAL activity very well. The Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) project
management performed well, although under a very scaled down component. The CPT
successfully oversaw implementation of its main study, "Policy and Regulations in the
Domain of CPT."
32. The MLSW had a high personnel turnover, but carried out two major studies. The
difficulty with personnel turnover was the continuous need for repeat training in
accounting and project management. The MOI did not use TAL funds until near the end
of the project. It had been reluctant to use TA funds because of previous bad experiences
with grant-funded TAs. In the privatization pilot project, the Ministry of Trade (MOT)
apparently did not respond to repeated efforts by the PIT to obtain a commitment to
implement the project. The MOT became inactive in 1993, and there was no PIU from
1993 onwards. Other agencies performed reasonably well. No projects that were
actually implemented were unsatisfactory.
33. To summarize, the TAL got off to a slow start with modest implementation during
the first three years and continuing through the socialist regime, except for some low



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                11
cost, but high impact activities. Implementation accelerated in 1997 when the socialist
Government was replaced and motivation was strong to solve the economic and financial
crisis.  Under-implementation also resulted from  competing grant resources, an
insufficient number of properly identified projects and an unwillingness in some agencies
to carry out projects using TAL loan funds. Some agencies did not adequately train
administrative officials to draft terms of reference and letters of intent, evaluate
proposals, and negotiate and monitor contracts. The shortage of training was aggravated
by high personnel turnover. These shortcomings translated into a reluctance to move
forward once the individual activities were identified. The equipment that was purchased
was appropriate to the needs and was mostly identified after appraisal.
D. PROJECT SUSrAINABILrry
34. The Bank and the GOB set in motion an ongoing process of capacity building that
supported a successful structural reform program. Sustainability of the TAL initiatives as
a whole is promoted because most of the measures are in place, have effected a
substantial reorientation of Bulgarian institutions, and are mutually reinforcing. In a
project heavy on consultancies, the transfer of skills is a key indicator of sustainability.
In most instances, the project management capacity developed quickly, especially the
procurement and budgeting functions. The Bulgarians took quick advantage of the new
legal foundation, suggesting that there was already considerable capacity, but which
needed only some guidance. Activities that contributed to longer term processes such as
privatization tend to have a higher guarantee of sustainability compared with some of the
"quick hit" activities such as isolated studies.
35.  Although implementation was slow, particularly during the socialist period, over
the course of the TAL, a solid legal foundation was built in a number of areas, both for
changes already made, for example, in the Enterprise Privatization and Restructuring,
social security reform and education components, and for future progress as well. The
privatization of the largest enterprises, such as BTC, has been slow, but substantial, and it
continues. Despite serious delays in implementation due to changes in government and
personnel, overall continued progress in implementing the objectives of the TAL was
satisfactory. Future planned operations (see section H) support a continued process of
reform that will promote and accommodate a growing private sector.



12                                             Implementation Completion Report
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.  This section reviews the major issues of Bank performance on the basis of what
was a reasonable standard at the time and what would have been the best course in
retrospect. Typical of early Bank operations in countries transiting out of socialism as
well as the Soviet sphere, the Bank essentially was trying to design a program in a
country it knew little about, and reckoned that a project that touched as many bases as
possible was likely to offer the greatest support to the transition and was more likely to be
relevant, at least in some areas. In fact, the TAL did meet Bulgaria's needs in many areas
and built up management capacity and enabled key reforms for transition to a private
sector based economy.
> The Bank identified key constraints to reform implementation. The Bank
was faced with an economy that had little appropriate institutional capacity and
had to design a program that was both feasible and supported the priority areas.
Most activities identified by the TAL were carried out either with TAL funds or
other sources.
9 TAL was overly complex. Typical of stand-alone TA operations in transition
countries, the TAL anticipated as many needs as were possible in a single
operation. There were up to 18 implementing agencies in the project, tasked
with carrying out over 100 activities. Activities were as disparate as identifying
safety recommendations at a nuclear power plant, creating a revolving fund for
school textbooks and carrying out a study on structural issues in the banking
system. However, despite the lack of synergy, TALs activities, separately, had
substantial impacts.
> TAL was overly specific. Probably a greater disadvantage than its complexity,
was the TAL's specificity. Not only were there over 100 project activities, but
they were very specific with specific dollar amounts attached to them. This
specificity constrained implementation. The TAL could have been just as
broad in its activities without the unrealistic level of detail in such an uncertain
situation.
i The Bank committed to an overly ambitious timetable for implementation.
As evidenced by the multiple extensions of the TAL and with knowledge of
working in a new member country in great economic uncertainty, the timetable
clearly was too tight.  The Bank's rationale was to keep the Bulgarian
authorities focused on the capacity building activities necessary for the
transition to a private economy.
>  The "top-down" design approach undermined ownership on both the GOB
and Bank. Given the slow responses at the preparation stage, it was not
evident that the GOB wanted the TAL in the first place. With the TAL's direct
link to the SAL, however, the GOB accepted the TAL even though it meant
committing to borrowing for TA activities, for which grant funding was
materializing.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                              13
> The Bank succumbed to its own time pressure to process the SAL and did
not insist on the adequacy of some of the TAL products. The banking study,
for example, needed improvements, but was prematurely accepted without
sufficient commitment and participation on the borrower's side. One of the
important SAL objectives of implementing solid banking reform was also not
achieved.
> The Bank demonstrated flexibility with respect to developments and
initiatives in Bulgaria. The Bank was very supportive of the GOB using grant
funds to replace TAL funds. Thus, the Bank gave greater priority to the
interests of the client than to meeting disbursement targets.
> The Bank was favorable to granting extensions to a project, even when
agencies in the GOB took measures that significantly slowed
implementation.  The Bank understood that under the socialist regime,
implementation would not proceed and judged that it was better to keep the
TAL open so that when opportunities to finance priority activities arose,
resources would be available. The five extensions indicated that the TAL
continued to be useful, but only at a much slower rate than envisioned at
appraisal.
O Because of its complexity, including 18 implementing agencies, and many
extensions, the TAL was expensive to administer. The costs of preparation,
appraisal and supervision exceeded the original plan by over US$500,000, for a
total of US$771,000, which is a higher cost than for the TAL average in other
countries.
37. In summary, the Bank, with the GOB, created a complex and overly specific
project that, despite often weak implementation, had a strong positive development
impact. The Bank coped well with the challenges of a new country in difficult
circumstances undergoing a radical transformation.   The Bank became more
knowledgeable of Bulgaria and its capacities.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38. As measured by its commitment to effectively utilize the resources of the TAL to
develop the capacity to carry out TAL-supported structural reforms; the GOB
performance is considered satisfactory.  The Government committed to a detailed
program of capacity building and accomplished most of its objectives specified under the
loan. Although the then regime slowed implementation, the Bank's patience paid off and
much was accomplished in the later extension periods. Performance was especially good
in the Legal, Enterprise Reform, and Institutional Development components.
Procurement performance was also good. The GOB used the TAL effectively to pre-
finance start-up activities for the SIA Project, which, because of its jump-start, was a
highly satisfactory performer.



14                                             Implementation Completion Report
39. Borrower performance might have been better, however, with respect to
maintaining continuity of personnel in the implementing agencies and being less resistant
to foreign TA. The GOB tended to be selective in its use of TAL funds because of the
availability of grant financing, and used loan funds from the TAL only when no
alternative sources were available, and only in the most high priority cases. The central
PIT was a bit rigid in dealing with some of the implementing agencies in terms of their
exacting standards in accounting for expenditures, which some of the agencies found a bit
intimidating. One other instance where performance could have been better was the case
of BNB component. The BNB did not demonstrate strong commitment to banking
reform and did not make any substantial contribution to the study or its implementation.
The BNB was slow in procuring the study so that the consolidation began without the
benefit of a systematic study. Rather than disseminating the study among banks, BNB
allowed the consolidation process to become overly politicized.
40. The PIUJ, on behalf of the Government, maintained the accounts of the TAL in
accordance with sound accounting practices. It was agreed that the projects would be
audited within four months of Bank request. Government compliance with legal
covenants under the TAL was considered satisfactory. Two covenants were not met, the
establishment of an inter-ministerial steering group for the legal framework for state
enterprises, and a steering group to oversee privatization. However, both covenants were
deemed unnecessary by the Bank and the Government as the functions were performed
by other entities.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUrcoME
41. Assessment of the overall performance and outcome of the TAL needs to be done
in the context of its achievements and Bulgaria's uncertain environment at the time. By
comparison of the original planned TAL at appraisal to actual results, it disbursed slowly,
a substantial share of loan resources was cancelled, and the project required modification
and restructuring to reflect revised government priorities.  The trade-off between
simplicity and ease of implementation, on one hand, and comprehensiveness and
specificity and difficulty of implementation on the other, was not managed as carefully as
it could have been. In many areas, however, the TAL had a strong positive impact well
beyond the value of the loan resources, and funded activities for which there was no
alternative source of funding.  Moreover, the majority of specific measures, and,
therefore the major objectives of the project, were achieved and assessed to be
sustainable. In addition many of the reasons for periods of weak implementation were
because of changes of Government which the project designers did not anticipate and
over which the implementing agencies had no control. Therefore, the most appropriate
rating for the TAL is satisfactory.
42.  As a technical assistance operation, calculation of benefits in terms of net present
value and economic rate of return for the project is not applicable.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                15
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43. TAL was followed by SAL I, which closed in FY95. The SAL I goal was to
achieve macroeconomic stability and reform and lay foundations for sustained private-
sector led growth over the medium term. The Rehabilitation Loan (closed FY97) and the
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (closed FY98) were the next -most
closely related operations. Current related operations include the SIA Project, approved
in FY97, and the Social Protection Adjustment Loan, approved in FY99.
L. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44. The main lessons learned are:
0 In uncertain environments, project design should be based on the
economic/institutional work and not over specify project activities. The TAL
not only had very broad coverage, but activities were very specifically defined,
even though the environment was uncertain and the Bank had little country
knowledge.  Lack of institutional analysis made it difficult to identify a
manageable priority list of fundable activities. In more certain environments,
specificity has the advantage of making sure the funds are used for an appropriate
purpose. In Bulgaria, a better approach might have been to avoid long lists of
very specific activities with assigned dollar amounts in favor of being more
indicative of appropriate activities and greater flexibility in project design for
additional technical assistance.
9 Reform can go awry without properly done studies. The case of'the banking
restructuring study demonstrated that prospects for effective reform are damaged
when the underlying study is inadequate and does not have borrower ownership.
Mechanisms to ensure quality of such studies and their country focus are
necessary to provide support to Government on reforms in design and
implementation of reforms. Some blame for the financial crisis in 1996 is
attributed to the poor implementation of banking reform.
> Adequate training for all sub-PIUs in the administrative aspects of
implementation. It is very important that all implementing agencies, not just the
central PIU, has the capacity to perform the basics of implementation, including
budgeting and budget control, contract negotiation and performance monitoring.
The TAL implementation would have been much better and the central PIU
would not have had to micromanage the activities of the many implementing
agencies.
0 Ownership by all implementing agencies for concerted and prompt
implementation. The reluctance to move forward once the individual activities
were identified can be minimized if the design of component activities involves
the personnel who will ultimately implement the component. The "top-down"
approach of the TAL design hurt implementation by undermining ownership on
both the borrower and lender sides and contributing to sluggish implementation.



16                                             Implementation Completion Report
Flexible, stand-alone TAs can be a crucial resource in transition economies.
Although theoretically, a project is implemented according to a specific plan, in
practice, many TA projects in transition economies have unused funds to be
drawn on whenever an activity arises that can further project objectives.
Examples include the equipment for the NSSI and the privatization of BTC.
0 Advantage/Disadvantage of a tight timetable. The disadvantage of the tight
timetable is the increased likelihood of the need for extensions of project closing
date in order to accomplish project objectives. This disadvantage is acceptable if
the tight timetable helps focus the country on the needed reforms and other
commitments at a time when the country is most disposed to reform, that is,
when there is economic adversity. In the case of the TAL, the many changes of
government undermined the value of a tight timetable.
Implementation flexibility to maximize effectiveness of loan proceeds.
Flexibility on project components during implementation is important to
maximize the project's positive impact in changing circumstances, e.g.,
reallocating project funds to other uses when component objectives can be
achieved without project funds as in the case of bank restructuring and energy
sector reviews.
Firm stance on extensions. The Bank should make a more explicit accounting
of the possible affects of multiple extensions of projects, especially when the
Govermnent, at times, does not show strong support for implementation. A firm
stance often heightens compliance with subsequent agreements. The Bank may
have lost some leverage by granting five extensions to the TAL, rather than
restructuring or closing the project. On the other hand, if the TAL had closed on
time, the GOB and the Bank would not have been able to seize opportunities as
they arose to finance critical consultancies and equipment.
o Umbrella TA projects are expensive to supervise. The cost of supervision of
umbrella TA projects because of their many components and activities, (in this
case, spread over 18 implementing agencies) is high and should be adequately
budgeted.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                   17
PART HI. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for the TAL Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for the TAL Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: TAL Project Costs
Table 8B: TAL Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Supervision and Missions



18                                                         Implementation Completion Report
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievmfent of Objectives        Substantial       Partia         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                       E]               Ix]
Sector Policies                     [J             IX]               0                 El
Financial Objectives                 [l                              Q D 
Institutional Development                           Q                                  E l
Physical Objectives                 El                               E[                El
Poverty Reduction                                                    E l 5            Ex3
Gender Issues                       El El                            E                Ix
Other Social Objectives            Ex                                E                 El
Environmental Objectives           El               El               E 
Public Sector Management                           [El               E 
Private Sector Development         El                                El                El
Other (specify)                      El             E                El                El
B. Project Sustainabilily            Likely                    Unlikely                 Uncertain
(I,                       (e                        (d.
rx-i               El                        El
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
('1                     (1..)
Identification                      a                        E                        [El
Preparation Assistance              El                       x                         E
Appraisal                                                   Fx [E                      El
Supervision                        E                        [E                         E
*   The TAL was designed at a time when the GOB needed support to carry out reforms in a wide range
of sectors and activities; though in retrospect the project was complex and overly specific.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                                19
(Continued)
Highly
D. Borrowr Performance             Satisfadory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(d)                     (                        (1d)
Preparation                        a                       [                        [
Implementation                     a                      [3                         0
Covenant Compliance                                       Ix                         o: 
Operation (if applicable)          E                       E                        0
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsadsfactory
C    EJ    0                                     O
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose              Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
1. NONE
Following operations
1. SAL I                Economic stabilization            FY92            Closed FY95
and reform.
2. Debt and Debt Service  Reduce debt and debt            FY95             Closed FY95
Reduction Loan           service.
3. Rehabilitation Loan   Aclieve macro stability          FY 97            Closed FY98
and lay foundation for
sustained medium term
growth.
4. Financial and        Restnicturing of the              FY98             Closed FY98
Enterprise Sector        banking sector and
Adjustment Loan          support privatization of
(FESAL)                 larger enterprises.
5. Social Insurance      Set up a new social              FY97            Under Implementation
Administration Project   security system with
hardware and database.
6. Social Protection    Ease reform transition and        FY 99           Under Implementation
Adjustment Loan          provide employment
assistance.



20                                                 Implementation Completion Report
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification                                                                    11/90
Preparation                                                                       12/90
Appraisal                                                                          2/91
Negotiations                                              5/91                  2/10/91
Letter  of Development/Sector  Policy  (if                                         NA
applicable)
Board Presentation                                     6/25/91                  6/27/91
Signing                                                                         7/22/91
Effectiveness                                          8/30/91                   1/9/92
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                                              NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                     NA
Project Completion                                    12/31/93                  6/30/98
Loan Closing                                           6/30/94                  6/30/99
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(USS millions)
FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00
Appraisal estimate         5.3  13.3  17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0   17.0
Actual                     2.0   2.8   2.8   4.5   6.3  10.6  11.3  12.3   12.3
Actual as % ofestimate      38    21    16    26    37    62    66    72            72
Date of final disbursement                                                       10/99
Note:
During FY98-99 the Special Account of US$2.1 million was refunded.
A total of US$4.9 million of the loan (29 percent of the original loan) was cancelled during FY97-99.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                21
Table 5: Key Indicators for the TAL Implementation
Estimated                  Actual
I. Key implementation indicators
in PAD
Enterprise privatization and
restructuring
1. Develop privatization                             Achieved.
objectives and strategy.
2. Develop institutional setup of                    Achieved.
the Privatization Agency.
3. Prepare initial privatization                     Achieved.
transactions.
4. Establish unit in MOF to                          Achieved for largest companies.
monitor SEs.
5. Develop strategy and                              Achieved with modifications to
institutional setup for privatization                original plan.
of industrial enterprises.
6. Prepare restructuring program                     Achieved.
for at least 3 subsectors and 5 pilot
enterprises.
7. Develop legal framework for                       Achieved.
private sector.
8. Prepare and implement modern                      Partially Achieved, audit
accounting and auditing systems                      systems not yet up to
and develop related professions.                     internationally accepted
standards.
Bank Restructuring and Reform
1. Develop conceptual framework                      Achieved.
for restructuring of banking
system.
2. Identify doubtful and non-                        Achieved, but not with TAL
perfbrming loans                                     funds.
3. Prepare institutional                             Achieved, but became obsolete
development studies.                                 before implementation.
4. Improve bank management                           Achieved, but not with TAL
practices.                                           funds.
5. Provide adequate training for                     Achieved, but institute
bankers.                                             established with other funding.
6. Design payments clearing                          Not Achieved.
system.



22                                             Implementation Completion Report
Human Resource Development
1. Improve operation and                            Partially Achieved.
management of social welfare
system.
2. Improve social security system.                   Original objectives not achieved,
but NSSI capabilities were
improved through TAL supplied
equipment.
3. Remove bottlenecks to                            Partially Achieved, new
education and increase budget                       legislation drafted and curricula
flexibility.                                        improved.
4. Increase operating efficiency of                  Not Achieved, nutrition
the health sector.                                   component dropped from the
Health Sector Restructuring
Project.
5. Expand scope of programs and                     Achieved, but under a different,
improve delivery of employment                       EC-PHARE, program.
service system.
Energy
1. Analyze and recommend                            Achieved through studies, but
measures to improve efficiency of                    financed mainly by EC-Phare
the power generation sector.                         and USAID. Continued reforms
supported by Bank's FESAL.
2. Recommend ways of expanding                       Achieved, but also financed by
use of gas.                                          EC-PHARE and recommended
that expansion of use was ill-
advised.
3. Recommend measures to                             Achieved.
increase safety and analyze
environmental issues of nuclear
power generation.
Institutional Development
1. Modernize customs clearing                       Partially Achieved, a customs
and data collection system and                       study was completed.
review international trade regime.
2. Develop debt strategy.                            Achieved, but with Japanese
grant.
3. Improve system of central                         Achieved.
statistics.
4. Advise MOF on transition to                       Not Achieved.
market economy.
5. Enhance macroeconomic                            Partially Achieved. Computers
analysis capability of the Agency                    provided but upgrade of staff
for Economic and Programming                         expertise was thwarted by
Development.                                         constant personnel turnover.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                23
11. Modified indicators
1. Assist in privatization of BTC.                  Achieved.
2. Recommend interim                                 Achieved with Government
arrangements for managing SEs.                      modifications.
3. Provide support to the Foreign                    Achieved.
Investment Agency.
4. Assist Committee of Posts and                     Achieved.
Telecommunications in the
development of policy and
regulatory functions.
5. Support the Ministry of                          Achieved.
Regional Development and
Construction in the development
of regional and local government.
6. Provide critical equipment for                    Achieved.
the Social Security and exchange
Commission.



24                                                Implementation Completion Report
Table 6: Key Indicatorsfor the TAL Operation
Estimated                    Actual
I. Key operating indicators in PAD
1. NA
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
1. NA
III Other indicatorsforfuture operation (if applicable)
1. NA
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as defined at    Status   Impact of study
appraisallredefined
1. Policy and Regulatory   Propose legal changes and  Done   CPT was
Improvements in the Domain   a plan to restructure CPT.      restructured.
of CPT
2. Structural Issues of the  Provide a plan to       Done   Resulting
Banking System.            consolidate the banking           consolidation did not
sector.                          follow rules of
efficiency.
3. Institutional Development   Provide plan for capacity   Done   became obsolete
Studies for the Financial  building.                         before
Sector                                                       implementation.
4. Social Welfare Studies  New curricula for training        New legislation.
social workers.
5. Power Generation Studies   Improve efficiency of  Done   Inputs for far
power sector.                     reaching reforms
including pricing,
greater private sector
participation and a
modern regulatory
structure.
6. Gas Study               Examine feasibility of    Done   Concluded that
expanding use of gas.             supplies were
unreliable and that
expansion was not
advised for the time
being.
7. Customs Study           Evaluate customs clearing  Done   Provided the basis for
and data collection system        limited reforms



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                               25
8. Alternative Sources for   Increase financial   Done  More flexible
Financing Education       resources for schools.         financing between
budget line items was
achieved.
9. Establishment of      Develop school book      Done  Helped develop
Revolving Fund for        publishing in Bulgaria.        private textbook
Textbooks                                                publishers as well as
supply textbooks to
students.
10. Improvement of the   Develop plans to improve  Done  Drafted plans to
Material and Technical    school facilities,             upgrade school
Basis in Education                                       buildings.
11. Identifying Alternative   Identify non-central  Done  Provided the basis of
Sources of financing for  government sources of          the National Research
Scientific Research      funds.                          Program.
12. Foreign Language     Curriculum development.  Done
Training and Upgrading in
Bulgarian Schools
13. System of Inspection  Monitoring of teacher   Done
and Teachers Evaluation  performance.
14. Establishment of     Improved testing for basic  Done  Much needed
National Standards for    qualifications in basic        improvement of
Secondary Education-     subjects.                       pedagogical aspects,
in particular the
practical application,
of the basic
disciplines.



26                                                    Implementation Completion Report
Table 8A: TAL Project Costse
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item              Local  Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs                 costs   costs
1. Private Sector Development &   1.5       11.1     12.6                  4.9       4.9
Restructuring
2. Bank Restructuring and         0.5        4.0      4.5                  0.2        0.2
Reform
3. Human Resources                0.5        5.6      6.1                   1.8       1.8
Development
4. Energy Sector Strategy         0.1        1.3       1.4                  1.0       1.0
5. Institutional Development      0.4        4.1      4.5                  2.5       2.5
5. Unallocated and Contingencies    0.4      3.9      4.4         0.3       1.9      2.2
Total                             3.4       30.0     33.5                  12.3      12.6
a. As provided by the Project Implementation Unit.
b. Appraisal cost estimates are not comparable to actuals because they included large amounts of funding
(US$13.2 million from EC-PHARE) that never materialized.
Table 8B: TAL Project Financing
Appraisal estimate'            Actual/latest estimates
(USS million)                   (US$ million)b
Item            Local costs Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs                 costs    costs
IBRD                                0     17.0      17.0                  12.3       12.3
Government                        2.0        0       2.0          0.3c               0.3
EC                                 1.3    11.9      13.2
UKKHF                             0.2       1.1      1.3
Total                             3.4    30.0       33.5          0.3     12.3       12.6
a. Appraisal cost estimates are not comparable to actuals because they included large amounts of funding
(US$13.2 million from EC-PHARE) that never materialized.
b. As provided by the Project Implementation Unit.
c. Government contributed office space and salaries of government employees involved in implementation.
Value of this contribution not estimated.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                                     27
Table 9: Economtic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original        Revised        Description of          Comments
Agreenent Section    Type        Status   Fulfillment  FulfiUlment        Covenant
Date         Date
Loan        2.01 (b)     3          C                               Open and maintain a
Special Account.
3.02 (a)     5         C                               Establishment of a
project implementation
unit (PIU).
3.02 (b)     5         C                               Maintain the Project   The Loan Agreement
Coordinating           was amended and this
Committee (PCC) with  covenant was waived
such composition and    since the functions of
functions as to ensure   the PCC has been
proper and overall     effectively carried out
coordination in the    by the PIU.
carrying out of the
project.
3.03 (a)    10        CD    12/31/91                   Establishandmaintaina  Withthe
steering group to      establishment of the
oversee design and     Privatization Agency
development of         (PA) and the passage
privatization strategy.    of the Privatization
law, a steering group
to oversee
privatization was
deemed superfluous.
3.03 (b)    10        CD    12/31/91      6/9/94       Establish and maintain a The Council of
steering group to      Ministers issued an
oversee governance of   ordinance appointing
state enterprises.    the steering group.
4.01 (a)     I         C                               Maintain records and
accounts in accordance
with sound accounting
practices.
4.01 (b)     I         C     6/30/93                   Conduct of annual      All received by the
audits.                Bank, sometimes late.
Covenant types:                                                                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                               8. = Indigenous people              C = covenant complied
2. = Financial performance/revenue  generation  from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting    with
beneficiaries                                    10. =  Project implementation  not  CD = complied with after
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds            covered by categories 1-9        delay
4. = Counterpart funding                            11.  =  Sectoral  or  cross-sectoral  CP = complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  budgetary  or  other  resource  partially
6. = Environmental covenants                          allocation                       NC = not complied with
7. = Involuntary resettlement                      12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
regulatory/institutional action
13. = Other



28                                                    Implementation Completion Report
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statemnent number and title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                           FULL COMPLIANCE
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Revised                Actual
Stage ofprojed cycle   Weeks    USS   Weeks           USS        Weeks       USS
Prep. through Appraisal                                                            249.3
Negotiations through Board                                                          23.3
approval
Supervision                                                  166.0                470.3
Completion                                                   28.9                   28.9
Total                                                  194.9                 771.7
Table 13: Bank Resources: Supervision and Missions?
Performance Rating
Stage of project   Monthl  No. of Days in  Specialzation    Implem.    Developm.
cycle        Year  Persons  Field                    status      objectives
Supervision        6/91      6       14   E,F,SS              NA           NA
Supervision        6/92      5       14   E,F,SS,En            S            S
Supervision        6/93      4       15   E,F,SS,En            S            S
Supervision        4/95      5       12   E,F,SS               s            S
Supervision        6/95      4       12   E,F,SS               U            U
Supervision        3/96      6       16   E,F,SS               U            U
Supervision        10/96     4       11   E,F,SS               U            U
Supervision        7/97      4       14   E,F,SS               S            U
Supervision        6/98      4       11   E,F,SS               S            U
Supervision        7/98      3       10   E,F,SS               S            U
Supervision        12/98     3       9   E,F                   S            S
Completion         6/99      6       1   E                     S            S
a. As reflected in Form 590s/PSRs in the project file.
E-economics, F-financial, SS-social sectors, En-energy.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                                 29
ANNEX A:
TRANsMrrTAL LETrrER FROM THE GOVERNmENT
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
102, Rakowki Str., 1040 Sofia
Telex 22727, Telefax 801148
June 1, 2000
Mr. Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
US.A.
Dear Mr. Vorkink:
Re: Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (Loan 3384-BUL),
Implementation Completion Report
I am pleased to write to you in order to enclose herewith our comments on
the Implementation Completion Report of the Technical Assistance Project for
Economic Reform, Loan NW3384-BUL.
With best personal regards,
Muravei Radev
Minister of Finance
Enclosure



30                                            Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The Government of Bulgaria considers that the implementation of Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL) has satisfactory achieved, in our opinion, its project objectives
namely, to strengthen the government institutions and agencies which have had a central
role to play in the reform effort, through providing a broad range of experience and the
institutional capacity necessary to design and implement structural reforms and to
manage a private sector economy.
The most immediate needs of Bulgaria, in order to make a transition to a market
economy, were the development of the necessary managerial, institutional and
technological capabilities to implement such transformation. TAL was specifically
designed to help build these capabilities.
The main contribution of TAL to the reform process is that it supported the
implementation of the main areas where skills were lacking to carry out such reforms:
- Private Sector Development, Privatization and Restructuring
- Bank Restructuring and Reform
- Human Resources Development
- Energy Sector
- Institutional Development
The Government of Bulgaria has been committed to the utilization of TAL's
resources to develop the institutional capacity to implement the reforms through a
detailed program of capacity building, which has led to the accomplishment of the project
objectives.
Although TAL was the first World Bank operation (along with the SAL ) in
Bulgaria the project components were satisfactory implemented, which is the more
significative, as TAL was launched in an environment of high uncertainty as it attempted
to facilitate a major transition from a centrally planned to an open, free market system.
TAL financed components in many implementing agencies, 18 in total, in critical
activities which were supported and resources provided which have had development
impacts that have outweighed the expenditures. The numerous objectives achieved by
component are an evidence of the high developmental impact of TAL.
The Government hereby expresses its opinion that the objectives of TAL were
largely accomplished by the extended date of June 30, 1998, that the performance of TAL
should be viewed as a part of a continuous effort from supporting the SAL, to a longer
term development of institutional capability, and the various follow-up loans during
Bulgaria's transition.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                               31
During the implementation of TAL there were major factors which affected the
project:
-  the very short time of the initial utilization period of the loan, two and a half years,
which was not enough time as the five extensions to the Loan Agreement show;
-  there was no mid-term review;
-  the project was not formally restructured, despite the multiple amendments to the loan
agreement in which allocations of loan proceeds were revised and broadened;
- there were six changes of government which have undoubtedly affected TAL
implementation progress;
-  extending TAL each time by a single year also meant that the project's remaining life
was too short to warrant restructuring or a mid term review.
The Government shares the above conclusions expressed in the ICR.
The different agencies financed by the TAL had significant achievements on the
transition process and the Government shares the findings of the ICR in relation to major
accomplishments in Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization, Securities and Stock
Exchange, Legal Framework for Business Activities, Bank Restructuring and Reform,
Energy Sector, Human Resources Development, Health, and finally Institutional
Development, particularly the financial support given to the Committee of Posts and
Telecommunications.
In conclusion, the TAL has made a significant contribution to the process of
transformation to a market economy by strengthening and providing the capacity to the
participating institutions responsible for carrying out the implementation of the different
components of the project.



32                                             Implementation Completion Report
Annex C
ICR Back to Office Report
THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.I.GA.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE: July 10, 1999
TO:      Kyle Peters, Sector Manager, ECSPE
FROM:     Richard J. Carroll, Consultant
EXTENSION: 33556
SUBJECT: Bulgaria: Technical Assistance Loan for Economic Reform, Final
Supervision and ICR Mission - Back to Office report
The completion mission for the Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Loan (TAL).
during June 21-26 took place. The two main tasks were: (i) to produce the final Project
Status Report (PSR) before the close of the fiscal year 1999; and (ii) to gather additional
information for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The PSR was mainly a
review of the progress of the only active component, which was a consultancy to advise
the Government during the privatization process of the Bulgarian Telecommunications
Company (BTC).
The main implementation issue for the TAL (item i) was to determine whether the
Government (Privatization Agency-PA) and the consultant (Deutsche Bank-DB) would
take the necessary steps for the final contract payment (US$390,000 for Task 4 under the
contract) to be eligible for payment under the TAL. Because the TAL closed on June 30,
1999, PA and DB would have had to agree to extend their contract from the original
expiration date of March 27, 1999 to June 30, 1999, and for DB to date its invoice for this
payment on or before June 30, 1999. The mission was informed that these requirements
were met, although no documentation was received. Actual payment could be made after
June 30, 1999, but with in a grace period of 3 to 4 months. The issue was raised by PA
whether the final payment to Deutsche Bank was required if the deal were not
successfully concluded. The contract does not require a completed sale. Rather the
consultant has a success fee built into the contract.
On the substantive side, PA indicated some concern over the progress of negotiations. As
there was only one bidder, the negotiating position of the Government was not strong.
PA expressed a desire that DB continue its support through full conclusion of
negotiations, even though the final invoice has been submitted. Whether the deal
between the consortium and the Government will be successfully concluded is not yet
known. However, distance between the two parties in terms of sales price, and regulatory
issues has shortened considerably.



Bulgaria Technical Assistance Loan 3384-BG                                33
Regarding discussions to support the ICR, several intensive interviews were held with the
PIU head and the consultant, in addition to knowledgeable persons from the Ministries of
Education, Labor, Committee on Post and Telecommunications and the Privatization
Agency. The general picture of the TAL that emerged from the discussions was that,
while its design was overly ambitious, and it required five extensions, nevertheless, it had
a substantial positive impact in many areas that were making a radical transition. As a
result, it might be problematic to rate the project overall. The information gathered
would tend to support a satisfactory rating.
It was agreed with the PIU head, Marin Bogdanov, that he will review a draft ICR and
ensure that the borrower's contribution is prepared beginning in October 1999.



34                                             Implementation Completion Report
LIST OF PERSONS INTERVIEWED
Proiect Implementation Unit
Mr. Marin Bogdanov - Head
Mr. Alberto Neyra - Consultant
World Bank
Ms. Lada Stoyanova - Economist/Operations Officer, Financial and Enterprise Sectors
Privatization Aeencv
Ms. Ekaterina Kolchakova - Advisor to the Executive Director
Ms. Emilia Lazarova - Head of Division, Coordination and Control of Privatization
National Social Security Institute
Mr. Roumen Tarkalanov - Head of Department, Project Management and International
Relations Department
Ministry of Education. Science and Technolosv
Ms. Alexandra Ivanova - Acting Director, Project Coordination Unit for World Bank
Projects
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (Intenational Activities Department)
Dr. Dimitre Matev - Head of International Activities Department
Committee on Post and Telecommunications
Mr. Peter Rendov - Member of Working Group on BTC privatization
Ms. Angelova - Head of International Relations Department



IBRD 26532R
22'                             252'7
4K,_....                                                             R  O      M                                      A N     I Allatar
FED    jsn RtP    It,    ;oA <!2Cnno                                                                                                   '. ................................................  --  toonsnr
44-                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Al                         44k~ La
1 .  oalduy    ~         on  ~orn  Megrel          ~      0t         '. RAZGI~AD               ,'~- 
0 F               I.       -     i.., >, X  rs  X .                 0       on6ZhiMitDrop oitya                                                RnoR,$t < )  R J   <  -> ti   R'zuM  VA R N A      . Sokolavab  K.-
~~~~ aa6   lin7  'OFj -                                           <                ;                                                                 y. PI  N-
Y U GO  S L AV  I A IA                                        Chn,                        ovbnk                                                                                        N KPments  > kiopon/  ."'  Na Poit  P::.
(SE RBIA/MONT.)                        \Rkans '9O                                                                                                                   EsasCm-                              evy
' TS~ .A[..... oP,rav..t Velijsn ".  ,,, '' 3QryanAsn                                                              :       v       "               Prnovdsyr   Q     BelosJen g;
L.--- '/              Tro2p   4nkoes                   Oo,s     P'  -desl,n
43.                           /~~~~~~T.N                                                                           VL
_43, TPirr ,OStanilH '; / 8 g V l evlevo \so>O92+5koe7lctail5c > )_-                                                                                                                                                                       43,
*0                                ZIo ttfo    ~            , DV    C   HSI              <              0ZIdototo      y    J              (                            n . S.tiOOOrPIOOw        B   J  a   c   kc
1'-  -Gbo        Krf                  -             ....      \             Soyon       Gabroso           .)                                                   ,                     2
RentaL.'          - Inn Poe                          horn        K <               TI _                                             U         R' n   0A                                              e  a
Kpjstnndif  %nnke ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~X                                                                                           % -6
Ta     '   raknvo                         mitC                                    Ignns'evo     \~<  .   5  Raa5 kl    4; >    b00, KHA,CKQVO  r ~                          " "                    PtPa-
0/ono                  OMotostit                                                                                                                E7 L ko;hrioyar~ -r" -_e s,v<4:
X.            Afefth Knnp~~~~~~~~ntinnP                         Chnpnn      Lyvbeeonsj ~ W._,B   R    A 
42'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
BId                              Kromono~~~~~~  Che,hnn"n~~~~_' Kh t k
42                 _1 t                          ognagrnd                     V8i'>ngrdp.Peshtoro, A,enoagradH  * so       S      i                        gneRocoD 27co                                                                                          42'
.- Rbzon9                       t2 Diotak f'Y')VOI V                     REd                                                                    \ K04n7 TURKE                                           9
S            Dobn,nishton t     f, }~qn ,,0Msfr                                              Is naTS lnr                                _ 
F  Y    R                                     d-ki                             t
,OS
MACEDONIA  T.       Idener-                                                                                                                                                                                   BU LGARIA
3   peerch .>Kulot>=           ,        <                te.           -,    Pndksnt                                                                                 BULG A R                  A 
To.arrnl       ToO                                            %                                                                                        0      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
2,2't                                                                                                                                                                                                  *      OBLAST CAPITALS
HU-sOARY'                         "'"                                     G    R   E    E C        EcK.o-ni,,,                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
~~~  .  .  -   L' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            '-''' ~~~~~~~~~AlROADS
ROMANIA          '_                                                                                                                             ;                41                             I      PORTS
Sac A                        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'>                                                                   "' ~~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST BOUNDARIES
r9      < -e              ,,n-''- _  _t       d/<ca         41'                          _                                                  -__~--=oINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FED. REP    --. --- -
(SERBIA/MONT)/ I                                                                                                   A I                                                                                 0       20       40      60       80       100
" ,    25                .                                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS
8    tMAcEDoNg  -/  ; r  <_                                                     t                                    <       <-                    Thismopwos prodlUCeddYtMa;P ns Edany eh Informoslin~~~~~~~Thi mp sotproucd hth Mo Onag Uit R h,  ord Bnk
TUEKET                                                                                       '--                 shown on this snap do not imply. on the pont of The World Bank Dliroop, ,,'ply,A, pt f h. Wd B- G-
d_ TRE>  __c   _his mobd. noJ fniny terri try, or ony endorsement
/X GREECE      oes;aog^:" 2;B 20> 8Y_J-, or ooaeptonnn of ,onhnoundoyieo. of-E 1996
GREECE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6' ~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 199



