Docmant of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-5540-BUL
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$17 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
JUNE 4, 1991
This doc_m  has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recpibs oly In the performanc of
_offiieWl dties. Its contents may not oterwie be dislosed widou  World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND SQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit   Lev (plural: Leva)
(Average Commercial Rates)
Jan      April
1989        1990     1991      1991
US$1.00                        1.82        5.71      7.0    1.6.79
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AEPD  -    Agency for Economic Programming and Development
BFTB  -     Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank
BNB   -     Bulgarian National Bank
CMEA  -     Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
CSO   -     Central Statistics Office
DMC   -     Debt Management Committee
EC-PHARE - European Community - Program of Assistance for
Reforming Economies in Eastern Europe
ICB   -     International Competitive Bidding
MESS  -    Ministry of Employment and Social Security
MFER  -    Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
MITS  -    Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Services
MOF   -    Ministry of Finance
NTB   -    Non-Tariff Barriers
PA    -     Privatization Agency
PCC   -     Project Coordinating Committee
PIU   -     Project Implementation Unit
SE    -     State Enterprise
BULGARIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



F)R OMCAL USE ONLY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borr-owert              Republic of Bulgaria
B8nefigiarltqs          Council of Ministers, Ministries of Finance, Foreign
Economic Relations, Industry, Trade and Services,
Employment and Social Security, Health, Education, and
Science and Higher Education, Bulgarian National Bank,
other governmental agencies and comercial banks and
participating enterprises.
Amoutt:                  US$17 million equivalent
Tqrme:                  -Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Financgno Plan:
Local       Foreian     Total
…0----- (US$ millions) -
Government                       2.0          --        2.0
IBRD                              --        17.0       17.0
EC-PHARE                         1.3        11.9        13.2
UK Know-How Fund                 0.2         1.1        1.3
TOTAL               3.5         30.0       33.5
Economic Rate
of Retulns              not applicable
Staff Ainraisal
R*PQtt:                 not applicable
nIEs IBRD No. 22689
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by r1ipients ,Ily in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withov: World Bank authorization.



MMOR*NDUM AND RECOCIOMDATXON OF TBE PRESIDENT
OF TUE INTERNATIONAL MANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TME EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO TUB REPUBLIC OF WULoARIA
FDO A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJEC FOR EcCOamIc REFORM
1.          The following memorandum and recommendation on a loan to the
Republic of Bulgaria for US$17 million equLvalent is submitted for approval.
The loan would be on standard IBRD terms with 17 years maturity' including S
years of grace to finance technical assistance in support of the Government's
economic reform program. Cofinancing, on a parallel basis, in the amount of
US$13.2 million equivalent is expected to be provided by the European
Community (EC-PHARE). Asaistance valued at about US$1.3 million is also being
provided on a bilateral basis by the UK Government through its Know-How Fund.
Backaround
2.          Formal contacts between the Bank and the Republic of Bulgaria
began in March 1990 and the country joined the Bank in September 1990. An
economic report, entitled "Bulgaria: Crisis and Transition to a Market
Economy" (Report No. 9046-BUL), dated January 23, 1991, was distributed to the
Board in February 1991. The proposed project would constitute the first
operation in Bulgaria.
3.          Bulgaria has embarked on an ambitious program of economic reform
to transform the country from central planning to a market-based economy.
This program includes elements critical to stabilization, as well as initial
measures to start the structural changes necessary for transition to a market
economy. While the Government has already taken major actions in terms of
price and trade liberalization, exchange rate reform, passage of a land reform
law and of a law to allow privatizations of small businesses, and has
initiated steps to demonopolize industry and trade, implementation of steps
required to assist in the transformation is in the early stages. The IMF and
the Bank have been working closely with the Government in the preparation of
the reform program. The stabilization component of this program is supported
by the IMF with a Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF) approved
in February 1991 (with a projected disbursement of SDR 93.2 million) and a 12-
month Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) of SDR 279 million, which became effective in
March 1991. The SBA focuses on four main elementss foreign exchange system
reform, incomes and price policies, fiscal policy and monetary policy. The
Bank is preparing a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) which will complement the
stabilization effort and support a comprehensive set of policy and
institutional measures in the areas of private sector development, state
enterprise efficiency (as a possible prelude to privatization), financial
sector restructuring, international trade, energy pricing and social safety
net provisions.
4.          The transformation of the economy will be particularly difficult
for Bulgaria. The economy has been more dependent on the Soviet Union than
any other Eastern European country. The disappearance of the CMEA regime, the
I Estimated GNP per eapits was US$2320 in 1989 wiung the World Bsank's Attas Nethodology. The GNP
per capita declined ,fgnificantly In 1990.



-2-
momentous change and disruption of the Soviet economy and the recent events in
the Gulf have severely affected the country, resulting in an external shock in
1990 equivalent to 17% of 1990 GOP, a higher level than that of most other
Eastern European countries. Finally, Bulgaria has a major external debt
problem. It maintained spontaneous access to the foreign private capital
markets in the 1980s. In 1989 a sharp deterioration set in and the country
lost practically all access to commercial bank financing. By end 1989, the
debt service ratio had increased to 74% of convertible currency exports and
total external debt rose to US$9.2 billion. About 85% (40% of which is
estimated to be short-term) of this debt was contracted with foreign private
banks. Bilaterals accounted for most of the remaining debt in convertible
currencies. In March 1990, the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank (which accounts
for about 90% of the total external debt), suspended principal payments on its
foreign debt obligations. This moratorium was broadened to cover interest
payments in June 1990. Private debt has been rolled over via a series of
three-month deferral arrangements and official debt fell into arrears. By end
1990, total debt amounted to almost 50% of GDP and about 120% of exports.
Official debt was rescheduled by the Paris Club in mid-April 1991. The
maturity structure of the existing private debt is extremely short, and
preliminary indications are that Bulgaria cannot engage in a sustained reform
effort if a long-term solution to reducing the debt burden, particularly of
the commercial debt, is not found. The Bank has been assisting Bulgaria in
developing a solid debt data bank, with expertise, financed from the Japanese
Grant Facility, which can also be used for assistance in debt management.
5.          One of the most immediate problems facing Bulgaria in its
transition to a market economy is the absence of many of the specific
institutional, managerial and technological capabilities needed, at both the
macro and micro levels, for an effective transformation of the economy. At
present, there are few viable administrative units or mechanisms within the
Government to design, implement and manage the elements of the reform process
and policy initiatives. In spite of this shortage of expertise, the
Government is moving ahead in most aspects of reform (para. 3). The problem
is particularly acute with respect to enterprises, which will be restructured
and increasingly privatized, and to the financial sector, which must be
restructured, privatized and modernized to develop a competitive commercial
banking sector. Because industry is heavily energy-intensive, along with
industrial restructuring, the Government must also formulate a comprehensive
energy strategy. Concomitant with these reforms, structures must also be put
in place to ensure that an adequate social safety net exists for those people
adversely affected by the reform process. Given the limited domestic skills,
the Government will have to rely extensively on foreign expertise to provide
assistance in these areas.
6.          Private Sector Develouuent. Privatization and Restructurina.
Development of the private sector, including privatization and restructuring
of existing enterprises, is a cornerstone of the Government's reform program.
More than 90% of enterprises in Bulgaria are state-owned; the private sector
is virtually non-existent and the highly concentrated state enterprises (SEe)
will have to adjust rapidly to survive in a more liberal market economy.
Management boards and managers of SEs have been largely elected by the
employees. As a result, the ownership rights of the State are not properly
represented, which has led to diminished accountability of managers for



-3-
enterprise performance. The Government aims at transforming rapidly this
outdated, mostly public-owned structure into one where private sector
actLvities are predominant. To achieve this objective, it has taken steps to
promote the development of new private enterprises--both local and foreign-
owned--and, at the same time, transfer the ownership of existiAg enterprises
to the private sector, while improving their efficiency. The proposed 8AL
will support a set of actions leading to this overall objective.
7.          As a first step in the privatization process and in an effort to
stimulate competition, the Government has implemented measures to stimulate
the break-up of BBs as part of its "de-monopolization program." This program
is expected to lead to an increase in the number of autonomous SEs in various
industrial branches, particularly in light industry. In addition, regulations
have been adopted which permit the privatisation of state enterprise assets by
means of auctions. Initially, this is expected to result In a speedy sale of
small establishwents in trade, services and tourism. An overall strategy,
mechanisms and procedures for implementing the privatization of the remaining
large enterprises are expected to be proposed in the coming months, and would
be reflected in a new Privatization Law. A separate Privatization Agency (PA)
has formally been established and its head appointed; its mandate will bb
finalized in the context of the new law. Measures must also be taken to
improve the efficiency, competitiveness and profitability of esterprises which
would remain under state ownership in the near term, prior to privatization,
as well as to increase the accountability of managers. The reform process and
liberalization of market conditions would introduce strict financial
discipline and affect the performance and financial situation of industrial
enterprises in many ways (e.g., adjustment of input and output prices,
reduction of subsidies, increased energy prices, increased capacity for self-
financing through tax reform, change. in the accounting framework, increased
interest rates, and credit ceilings, etc.). Many enterprises, and even
industrial sectors or subsectors, will have to be restructured and
rehabilitated, others will have to be phased out or closed. It is, therefore,
necessary to develop the policy and institutional mechanisms to support this
restructuring simultaneously with, and sometimes before, privatization.
Further, t.e accounting system is not suitable to the needs of a market
economy. While a new Accounting Law has been passed to permit establishment
of a modern accounting system, the Government will need to prepare a program
for its implementation, and for development of the accounting and audit
profession. Finally, the country's legal system is in the process of being
overhauled to serve the needs of a modern market economy and private sectcr
development. This process will need to be pursued over the next few years,
with a particular emphasis on the implementation and enforcement of this new
legal framework.
8.          Bank Restructurina and Reform.  Restructuring of the banking
system started in 1i&, with the creation of seven specialized banks and the
transfer to these institutions of some of the branches of the Bulgarian
National Bank (BNB). In 1989, the remaining 59 8NB branches were transformed
into independent commercial banks. All new banks were established as joint-
stock companies and allowed to function as universal banks. The Government
has also made progress in establishing the basic legal, regulatory and
supervisory frameworks new Banking and Central Bank Laws are under
consideration and a Banking Supervision Department has been established in



-4-
MOD. The foreign exchange functions have been transferred from the Bulgarian
Foreign Trade Bank (BFTS) to  BS.  The financial system, however, still
exhibits a large number of weaknesses; additional steps are urgently required
to restructure and develop the system.   There are too many banks, but the
banks' branch network is too small. Many banks have problematic loan
portfolias, are too small to benefit from economies of scale and to provide
efficient services to clients, and have substantial interlocking relationships
with other state-owned banks and enterprises. Their capital base and
profitability are frequently weak, competitive behavior is underdeveloped and
bank managers and personnel lack the banking skills needed in market-oriented
financial institutions. Finally, clearing and settlement of interbank
payments are ineffective and slow and result in huge uncleared balances which
inflate the banks' balance sheets. The existing system was designed for
processing the accounts of BNB branches. As these branches have now been
transformed into independent banks, a well-functioning payments clearing
system needs to be developed urgently.
9.          Knerav 8ector.  The Bulgarian economy is highly energy intensive.
Access to inexpensive 8oviet crude oil and the previous system of administered
energy prices protected domeatic consumers from changes in world energy prices
and contributed to the creation of an energy-intensive and inefficient
industrial sector. In addition, no single government agency is in charge of
overall coordination and supervision of the energy sector. Currently, about
35% of the country's electric power generation comes from a single nuclear
station (Kozloduy). Another 35% comes from burning indigenous, low-grade
lignite, which is a major source of air pollution. Much needs to be done in
the areas of institution building and pricing, which would help restructure
the sector and, via market-determined energy prices, ensure a more rational
allocation and use of scarce energy resources  The Government has started to
address problems in the energy sector, especially in the area of pricing
policy.  The SAL will support additional policy changes in the areas of
subsidy reduction/elimination, energy price adjustments, and the establishment
of a single coordinating/supervising authority.
10.         Social Safety Net and Human Resources.  Until recently, many
social functions handled by the government in market economies were performed
by the enterprise sector under the complex web of subsidies and transfexs that
characterized central planning. The transformation of Bulgaria into a market
economy will necessitate a complete revamping of the social welfare system,
while at the same time ensuring that adequate mechanisms are in place to
support needy groups during restructuring, and that the development of a
modern human resource base takes place. In addition, the capacity of the
current employment service system is inadequate to meet placement needs or to
administer effectively an unemployment benefit payment system in a period of
rapidly increasing unemployment. Offices are understaffed, procedures are
cumbersome, the range of services is limited, automation is minimal, and the
development of small business is only just beginning. Therefore, a major
reform of employment services is needed to support increased labor mobility.
11.         Government Services.  In many other areas, ministries are
inadequately organized to deal with the new demands being placed upon them.
The Ministries of Finance, Foreign tconomic Relations, Industry, Trade and
Services and others have insufficient and inadequately trained staff to



-5-
develop and implement policies required of a market-based economy.  In all
cases, some departments will disappear and others will have to be
strengthened. At present, a number of functions, such as responsibility for
aid coordination and oversight of the different energy eubsectors, are
scattered among several different departments, hindering docision-making and
coordination efforts. In some areas, such as international trade and central
statistics, the capacity to design and implement appropriate market-based
policies and mechanisms is entirely lacking. In all cases, technology is
inadequate to deal with the newly developing demands.
12.         Bank Strateav and Rationale for Bank Igvolvement.  The Bank
strategy is to move quickly to assist the Government develop the capacity to
move away from a centrally planned to a market-based economy. Although
Bulgaria requires support in most aspects of every sector, the Bank's aim is
to focus on those areas where its support will provide the maximum benefit.
The main instrument to support this transformation will be a Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL), currently under preparation, which will complement the
recently agreed IMP Stand-by Arrangement to support a comprehensive set of
policy and institutional measures to facilitate structural change and at the
same time provide much-needed balance-of-payments' support. The proposed
technical assistance project will provide the Government with the expertise
that is crucial for implementing the economic reform program, and for
introducing the specific policy and institutional measures to be supported by
the SAL. The project would provide substantial assistance to the Government
in mobilizing donors, assistance, particularly grants available from the EC-
PRARE and other sources, for technical assistance purposes. It will also help
provide a solid foundation for future investment operations in the areas of
industrial restructuring, banking modernization and energy sector
restructuring.
13.         8ia.ve mid-1990, IFC has actively promoted its investment products
in Bulgaria, pending the country's formal membership in IFC that is expected
this summer. UFC is currently considering pilot joint-venture investments
between foreign investors and local enterprises. As in other Eastern and
Central European countries, it looks to be actively involved in privatizations
and the financial sector, and is closely coordinating its efforts with the
Bank. However, pending passage of a privatization law and resolution of the
country's commercial debt problem, foreign investors are likely to be
tentative in Bulgaria.
14.         Proiect Obiectives.  An important constraint to the success of the
stabilization and structural reform program is the Bulgarian authorities' lack
of experience in moving towards a market economy. They are only beginning to
develop an appreciation for the role of government during and after the
transition to a market economy and need massive technical assistance to flesh
out and implement the reform program expeditiously. In particular, there is
an immediate need for help in articulating the structural reform aspects of
the program, and a continuing need for help in implementing it. The
fundamental objectives of the project would be to strengthen the government
institutions/agencies which have a central role to play in the reform effort,
by creating an effective and efficient enabling environment in support of
private sector development, and to finance the needed technical help to the



-6-
extent that financing cannot be obtained from other sources on concessional
terms.
15.         Prggect Description.  The project would finance multi-sectoral
activities to support the Government in the implementation of its economic
reform program. It would consist of technical assistance through the
financing of resident advisors and short-term conoultants, studies, training
and limited amounts of equipment in the following areas:
(a)   Private sector development, enterprise privatization and
restructuring, including support for the privatization of state
enterprises, state enterprise management, restructuring of
industrial enterprises (including the restructuring of selected
subsectore and pilot enterpriebs), development of accounting and
auditing standards, and development and implementation of the
legal framework for business activity;
(b)   Bank restructuring and reform, including restructuring of the
banking system, restructuring of banks, management advisory
services, craining facilities and modernization of the payments
clearing system;
(c)   Human resource development and strengthening of the social safety
net, including modernization of the social security and welfare
system, support to the education sector to respond to the demands
of a restructuring and market-oriented econony, enhancing the role
of the health sector especially through health screening and
health system management, employment services and small business
development, and training and requalification;
(d)   Energy sector strategy reforms, through studies of the power
generation sector, the potential for expansion of the use of gas
and the safety and environmental aspects of the use of nuclear
power; and
(e)   Institutional development to support activities critical to the
reform, including: (i) international trade reform in the areas of
non-tariff barriers (NTBs), import tariffs and direct foreign
investment; (ii) direct support for core ministries (such as
Finance) as well as for the Agency for Economic Programming and
Development, which provides macroeconomic projections and advice
to the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank; (iii) support
for the Debc Management Group in the design of a debt strategy;
(iv) an assessment of the computerization needs of the Central
Statistics Office and a provision for the first phase of equipment
recommended by the study; and (v) provision for the services of an
implementation advisor. This advisor, in addition to a wide range
of project-related activities, would also be responsible for
assisting the various government agencies in international, and
project-related, procurement activities. Other activities may be
identified during the course of project implementation, based on
criteria agreed between the Government and the Bank, consistent
with the spirit and thrust of the loan.



-7-
16.         These area  of assistance weoe chosen, and others excluded, on the
basis of detalled discussions with Bulgarian authorities and other aid
agencles, especially the 3C-PHARlI all are central to the Government's
economic reform efforts. To keep the operation's scope manageable, activities
not rated as highest prLoities, or that could not be implemented quickly and
efficiently at the present time, were Jeferred to future lending operations.
17.         In this regard, agriculture, which is also central to Bulgaria's
reform efforts, merits special mention, since it is not specifically included
in this project. Agriculture and agro-industry account for an Important share
of output, employment and exports, and food product prices are especially
sensitive politically. The Bank is engaged in an intense and productive
policy dialogue in agriculture: the Structural Adjustment Loan includes
agricultural policy conditionality, and an agricultural project is under
preparatlon as one of the Bank's first sector operations in Bulgaria. Under
the proposed project, support provided under the banking restructuring and
reform component would also be available for agricultural credit institutions
since these institutions are an integral part of the Bulgarian banking system.
in addition, the EC- PHARX is providing ECU 20 million for technical assistance
in agriculture in 1991 (and may allocate a similar amount next year). In the
interest of streamlining this project, technical assistance for agriculture
is, therefore, being financed by the 3C outside the project.
1a.         7n each sector included in the project, the tearms of reference for
advisors give high priority to strategy formulation. For example, a primary
responsibility of advisors provided for the privatisation of state enterpriose
will be the development of objectives and strategy for the privatization
program, the same is true of advisors provided for industrial restructuring.
The centerpiece of the bank restructuring and reform component is a study of
the structural issues of the banking system, which will serve as a major input
for strategy formulation of the banking sector. In social security and social
sector reform, strategy formulation will be an essential prerequisite to
preparing new legislation. The energy studies that the project will finance
will lay the foundation for strategy formulation in that area. Terms of
reference for all consultants' services and studies will be agreed with the
Bank.
19.         Close coordination i8 being maintained with the EC-PHARE, a major
provider of grant funding, and the UK Know-How Fund. EC-PHAR has agreed to
finance a large part of the private sector development component (including
privatization, enterprise restructuring, and auditing and accounting
activities) as well as bank restructuring activities and the data processing
needs for the employment services program. Sme of thLs funding is already in
place, and the remainder is expected to be finalized shortly. The UK Know-
How Fund has approved assistance program for the Bankers' Training Institute
feasibility study and training and all expert services in the employment
services sub-component. Through this mutually supportive collaboration and
the process of consultation with other donors, it is hoped that the efficient
use of resources allocated for priority technical assistance needs will be
maximized. At the same time, early steps are being taken to improve the
process in the field. Close coordination has been maintained with the IF for
assistance in the banking sector. The IMF assistance to the financial sector



will cover the nees of the DNS, focussing on its regulatory and supervisory
functionse monetary and credit policies, institutional strengthening, and
introduction of accepted bank accounting principles and systems. Bank
assistance will complement this support and will foc'ts primarily on
development of the banking system, as well as providing assistance for the
development of a payments clearing and settlement system and for developing
ONDWs on-site bank examination capabilities.
20.         The project would be carried out over a period of about 2 years at
a total cost of S33.5 million equivalent, of which $30 million (about 90%)
would be in foreign exchange. The proposed loan, together with grant. from
EC-PHARE and the UK Know-How Fund, would finance 100% of the foreign exchange
costs. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A.
Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements are shown in Schedule
S. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Bulgaria are given in Schedules C and D respectively. More
detailed information on the project is provided in the Technical Annex. A
sa"mmary of key project activities and more detailed project cost estimates are
given, respectively, in Attachments 1 and 2 to this Annex. A map is also
attached.
21.         Actions Agreed.  The Government confirmed the scope of work to be
financed from the proposed loan as well as activities for which alternative
financing is, or will shortly be, in place. During negotiations, agreement
was obtained on the followings (a) a financing plan, including cofinancing
from other foreign multilateral and bilateral sources and the availability of
counterpart funds for local costsl (b) terms of reference (TORs) and the early
appointment of the Project Implementation Advisor; (c) TORe for the principal
consultants and for the major studies, (4) establishment, as soon as possible,
and at the latest by December 31, 1991 of steering comzittees for developing
strategies for privatization and state enterprise managements (e) coordination
and implementation arrangements; and (f) criteria for selection of at least
three subsectors and five pilot enterprises for the restructuring studies to
be financed by EC-PHARM. Availability of the EC-PHARE grant, establishment of
the PIU and appointment of tne Project Implementation Advisor will be
conditions of loan effectiveness.
22.         BSQnflts.  The project would help create an overall framework to
further the economic reform program and help ensure that structures are in
place to facilitate its implementation. Despite its small size, this project
has the potential to accelerate key elements of this program. It would help
the Government strengthen its technical and financial capabilities, provide
the assistance needed to prepare and initiate the restructuring of the banking
system, and would provide legal and other expert advice to assist in the
speedy development of the private sector. In addition, through the human
resources component, it would strengthen the social safety net to minimize the
social costs of ttis reform process. The project is also expected to help
mobilize additional external financing to assist in the reform effort.
23.         Bioko.  In addition to the overall risk of lending to a country
facing such formidable challenges and a very high debt burden, the project
faces four specific risks. (a) The current coalition government has been
established recently and, although it has taken some bold measures to initiate



-9-
a strong reform program, lts abillty to sustain a vigorous implementation of
thLe reform is still to be toeted. The project aLms precosely at facliltating
the preparatlon of such measures, and the development of lnstltutlons, that
would help the Government manage thls implementatlon. (b) External agen:ies
could duplieate each other's efforts, or omlt critLeal elements because of
inadequate ald coordination. To prevent thli, regular meetings have been
held, and are belng planned, with representatives of multllateral and
bilateral agencies and the Bulgarian Government is planning an aid
coordination group to be chaired either by the World Bank or BC. In addition,
the SC will also provlde grant funding for strengthening the coordination
function ln Bulgaria. (c) The risk that the project would support or
perpetuate inefficient bureaucracies has been reduced by the 20-30% downszLing
in the clvil servlce that is currently in progress. Furthermore, the project
is designed to help the core ministries redirect thelr efforts to the role
they must play in a market economy. (d) As Bulgaria is unfamiliar with Bank
operations, and counterpart arrangements and institutions are weak, project
implementation could proceed more slowly than desired. An intense supervision
effort, the creation of a strong project implementation unit, and the
appointment of a project-financed implementation advisor (conditions of
effectiveness, see para. 21) will contrLbute to minimizing this risk.
24.         EnvLronmental Assessment ReauLrementa.  In accordance with the
Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.GO, Annex A),
the proposed project has been placed in Category "Co and does not require an
environmental assessment.
Recosvendation
25.         I am satlified that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
by WilfrLed P. Thalwitz
Attachments
WashLngton, D.C.
June 4, 1991



8chetilule a
gucm,xa   FUX!UC   3lC   OR .aouMnC uw
h=W:2D        M FIAM  lm
Estimated goats'
r4mment             ZA"l        FogZntLm       20ta
-- ---- fIuS millioni…------
1.    Private Sector Devt, Privatization
and Restructuring           1.5          11.1          12.6
2.    Bank Restructuring and Reform        0.5          4.0            4.5
3.    Human Resource Development           0.5          5.6            6.1
4.    Energy Sector                        0.1          1.3            1.4
S.    Institutional Development            0.4          4.1            4.5
Base Cost                      3.0         26.1          29.1
contingencies                 0.5           3.9           4.4
Total Project Costs            3.5         30.0          33.S
mum         uu
Fiancing Plan                                 aanio 
-------- fuIA million-…--- -
Government                                 2.0            -            2.0
SBRD                                         -         17.0           17.0
Cofinancing EC-PEARS                       1.3         11.9           13.2
UK Know-How Fund                           0.2          1.1            1.3
Total                                      3.5         30.0           33.5
=mm                        Ushoums
t    including taxes and duties



-ll-
Behodulo 
SSXCM:U ABXSS CRA$ MROEC  FQ   CN#M             EO
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Element                         Pr=gurement Method /1._    Total Cost
ICa              Other /2
--------------tUSS millionl-- -----
Equipment and furniture               2.1               1.7                3.8
(2.1)            (0. 9)             (3.0)
Technical Assistance
(Advisors, Consultants                              27.8               27.8
and Studies)                                       (12.7)             (12.7)
Training and Study Tours                                1.9                1.9
(1.3)             (1.3)
TOTAL                           2.1              31.4              33.5
t2.11           (14.91             u17.01
/I    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IBRD.  These include
total contingencLes of 15% and do not correspond to amounts in
disbursement categories because of the imputation of the unallocated
amount to specific categories.
/2    Includes local procurement procedures and international shopping
as well as procurement procedures of cofinanciers.  Procurement
for all Bank-financed items will be in accordance with World Bank
procurement procedures.
XBRD Disburseeents
CatSeA                   amoaut            I of ex2enditures to be financed
(US$ million)
Equlpment                 1.8              100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex
factory cost), and 75% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultant Services/      9.4              100% of foreign expenditures
Studies
Training                  1.2              100%
Unallocated               4.6
Total                    17.0
mmrn
Ea3"MesLZiL f iawwraa.gnts                        ZERD Fiscal Year
--------…US  million---------
Annual                               S.3           8.0         3.7
Cumulative                           5.3          13.3        17.0



-12-
!3CEM!CAL ASXISTANC  PRO1ZC!  3 ECONOFORC R0PDR3
!i 9table of En Proect Pwociuuina Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                    3 months
(b)   Prepared bys                              Government with Bank
assistance
(c)   First IBRD missions                       November 1990
(d)   Appraisal mission departures              January/February 1991
(e)   Negotiations*                             May 1991
(f)   Scheduled Board Dates                     June 25, 1991
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveneses            August 30, 1991



-13-
T3CNICAL ASsi8TANC$ PROJAC=  FOR UCOOIG  RFORM
O- 8SATU8 -O  MANM GROUP OP3RAtON3 IN DULGARI
A *BAU3  OF DANK LOANS
(as of March 31, 1991)
As of March 31, 1991, Bank lending to Bulgaria had not yet commenced.
D. SXAZWNT or XI-PC INVe8TlMwA
(as of March 31, 1991)
As of March 31, 1991, there were not yet any IFC investments in
Bulgaria.



- 14 -
BUILGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Technical Annex
A. Progect Description
1.          The project is designed to include only elements that are critical
to the Government's economic reform program and that could be implemented
within the next 2 years. It includes activities for which financing is being
provided on concessional terms by other donors. The project will address key
issues in the way economic activity is to be organized in Bulgaria. It would
provide for consultant services, studies, training and equipment to support
the economic reform program. In addition to formal training courses, overseas
study tours and fellowships, an important part of consultants' assignment will
be to provide on-the-job training and seminars. This function will be clearly
emphasized in terms of reference and contracts. In addition, the project
provides for implementation assistance through a project implementation
advisor. The total project cost is estimated at $33.5 million, of which $30.0
million in foreign exchange. The foreign exchange costs of each component
(before contingencies) are given in parenthesis in the following project
description. Breakdowns of the project costs and financing plan are shown in
Attachment 2. The project would support the following components:
a.    Private sector development, enterprise privatization and
restructuring;
b.    Bank restructuring and reform;
c.    Human resources development (social safety net);
d.    Energy sector development; and
e.    Institutional development, including a project implementation
advisor and other priority actions to support the reform program.
I. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT. ENTERPRISE PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING
(US$11.1 MILLION)
2.          Over forty years of central planning have left Bulgaria with a
very minimal private sector and with highly concentrated state enterprises
(SEs). This component would consist of five mutually reinforcing sub-
components (described below) which are of key importance in Bulgaria's overall
strategy of private sector development.
3.          Privatization of state enterprises.    The privatization program
is expected to begin in the coming months with the sale of small trade,
services and tourism establishments. To permit the privatization of larger
enterprises, a draft privatization law is under preparation. The
Privatization Agency, which would be the prime beneficiary of this sub-
component, was established by a Council of Ministers' Ordinance of February
1991 and will play a central role in the implementation of the privatization
program for large firms. Staffing arrangements and detailed institutional
responsibilities for the Privatization Agency, and detailed regulations on
privatization, have, however, yet to be developed. In addition, support will



- 15 -
be provided to a high-level steering committee, chaired by a Deputy Prime
Minister, which will be responsible for developing the overall strategy for
the privatization program. The EC-PHARE program will finance this sub-
component as part of an agreed assistance program for private sector
development to be coordinated by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Services
(HITS). This program would assist in:
a.    defining the goals and objectives of, and the overall strategy
for, the privatization strategy generally;
b.    designing and implementing the structure, procedures, staffing and
budget of the Privatization Agency; and
c.    helping to carry out a limited number of initial privatizations
and devise plans for managing privatizations that will not be the
responsibility of the Privatization Agency.
4.          This sub-component includes the provision of 2 internationally
recruited advisors (an investment banking expert and a privatization lawyer)
and short-term experts (financial specialists, economists, engineers,
specialized lawyers, and experts in specific industries). The project also
includes training of Bulgarian staff--both inside the Privatization Agency and
others--in the various skills required for privatizations, and essential
equipment needed by the Privatization Agency in its first two years.
5.          State enterDrise management: Even with the desired rapid growth of
the private sect.or, most economic activity is expected to remain with state
enterprises for some time. There is a need, therefore, as an interim goal of
private sector development, for state enterprises (pending privatization) to
operate as much as possible like private enterprises. In this regard, there
is a need to design and implement the necessary organization for the
transparent exercise of state ownership over SEs, and to establish modern
governance systems for SEs. Actions are necessary to establish active boards
of directors which represent the ownership interests in SEs, and provide a
strategic framework for SE operations. The progressive transformation of SEs
into joint-stock companies will be necessary to develop such modern structures
and facilitate privatizat4ion.
6.          The project would provide assistance in improving the management
arrangements for SEs. The MITS is responsible for developing policies and the
institutional framework for state enterprise management and will be assisted
in the development of a state enterprise management strategy by an inter-
ministerial steering committee. Consultants provided under the project would
assist MITS and this steering committee, and work with ministries and agencies
responsible for state ownership in various sectors. The project would also
assist in the establishment of a SE performance monitoring system in the
Ministry of Finance. Assistance would be provided by a combination of some
foreign advisors who would reside in Sofia for a period of up to about 18
months, as well as additional short-term consultants (for about 9 person-
months). The short-term consultants will assist in the implementation of the
proposed new enterprise management systems and work in other specific areas,
such as reporting and performance monitoring systems, and legal issues.



- 16 -
7.          Restructurina of industrial entergrises.  The Bulgarian industrial
sector is undergoing a major and difficult transition as a result of the
fundamental changes in external market conditions (particularly with CMEA
trading partners), and the efforts to improve the competitive climate in the
country. The Government has initiated a campaign to break up large
enterprises and intends to develop a strategy for the privatization and
restructuring of industrial enterprises. This sub-component would assist KITS
to: (a) develop a sector strategy for the privatization and restructuring of
industrial enterprises; (b) develop a program to implement the strategy; and
(c) recommend the promotion of institutions that would facilitate industrial
restructuring. The assistance in this area would include a survey of
industrial enterprises and their segmentation along various performance
criteria to help classify enterprises according to the nature and extent of
restructuring needed, and define their prospects for early privatization. The
assistance is expected to be provided over a period of about nine months by a
small team of experts in industrial strategy formulation, economics,
engineering, financial analysis, market analysis, and institutional
development.
8.          A separate part of this sub-component, to be financed by the EC-
PrARE program, would provide assistance in the preparation of restructuring
programs for at least three industrial subsectors which are in critical
condition, and five important industrial enterprises which can serve as pilot
restructuring cases. MITS will select the subsectors and enterprises on the
basis of criteria which have been agreed with the Bank. Potential candidates
for subsector restructuring are metallurgy, heavy machine building, and
electronics. The assistance would be provided by small teams of industrial
restructuring experts with experience in the specific businesses concerned.
The teams would work with MITS for the subsector restructuring assistance and
with the five concerned enterprises to develop the five pilot cases.
9.          Develonment of the legal framework for business activity.  This
sub-component would support the Council of Normative Acts (an advisory body
headed by the Prime Minister's Senior Legal Advisor and reporting to the
Council of Ministers) and other agencies in the preparation and implementation
of a new legal and institutional framework for business activity that would
facilitate the development of a market economy and encourage private sector
development. The main objective of the reforms to be pursued with project
assistance is to create an environment enabling the nascent domestic private
sector, as well as foreign investors, to take over most productive economic
activities from the State and to compete with State enterprises on an equal
basis, after decades of private sector exclusion from the economic spheres.
Five areas of law would receive the most urgent attention, namely property
(movable and immovable), basic corporate law, competition, bankruptcy, and
public procurement (in view of the importance of fair access to public
contracts for the development of a private sector). In addition, assistance
would be provided in general contract law and in the development of special
contracts to facilitate business transaction.. Other priorities for legal
reform (such au privatization, banking, trade reform, agricultural land
reform, tax reform and accounting law) are covered by other sub-components of
this project or funding from other sources of assistance.



- 17 -
10.         The assistance provided under this sub-component would focus not
only on the drafting of legislation and regulations, but also on their proper
implementation and enforcement. This will, $iner alLa, require the timely
publication of now legislation and administrative instructions or decisions of
interest to businesses, the development of minimal information and
documentation sources on legal reform in the business law area, the training
of staff of the concerned agencies, and assistance in developing the needed
administrative and institutional mechanisms and procedures for the application
of the new legal framework. To this end, the Council of Normative Acts and
other concerned agencies would be supported by a legal assistance team and
other lawyers. This team would include a resident legal advisor for 24
months, short-term legal experts and a part-time supervising partner. In
addition, the project would finance training, recruitment of local lawyers,
equipment and legal publications.
11.         Accountina and auditina.  This sub-component, to be financed by
the RC-PHARE program, would help facilitate the transition to a modern system
of enterprise and bank accounting and auditing suitable for a market economy,
and encourage the development of the Bulgarian accounting and auditing
professions. The primary beneficiaries of this sub-component would be the
Department of Accounting in the Ministry of Finance and the Association of
Accountants and Auditors. The assistance would be provided by two resident
advisors (about 24 person-months) in auditing and accounting, who would draw
on additional expertise from a foreign accounting firm as required. Provision
is also made for short overseas study tours and training.
TI. BANK RESTRUCTURING AND R_FORM (USS4.0 MILLIONI
12.         Bank reform in Bulgaria started in 1987 and continued in 1989 with
the introduction of a two-tier banking system. While only four banks existed
a few years ago, there are now more than 70 banking institutions, mostly with
new management and inexperienced staff. To accomplish a successful transition
from centralized to a pluralistic and market-oriented financial system and to
support the speedy development of the private sector, substantial reform of
the banking sector is essential. Under the project, a series of reform
measures would be initiated through the following five sub-components.
13.         Restructurina of the bankina system. The project would provide
strategic advice on improving the structure of the banking system by financing
a "Study on Structural Issues of the Banking System" (5 person-months). This
study would provide a blueprint for guiding the reform of the overall banking
system, including the merger of banks and the restructuring and privatization
of banks. In addition, it would focus on the more immediate issues relating
to the respective roles of existing banks, the ownership of and other
relationships between banks and between banks and non-financial enterprises.
The main beneficiaries of this study would be the monetary and regulatory
authorities and individual financial intermediaries.
14.         Restructurina of banks.  To create a solid basis for the financial
restructuring of banks, portfolio and financial audits need to be carried out,
starting with FY91. To ensure the institutional strengthening and development
of the merged banks, institutional development studies will be required. To



- 18 -
this end, substantial funds are being provided by EC-PHARE to finance
portfolio and financial audits and institutional development studies. In
addition, the proposed loan would finance a resident expert (for about 18
months) who would concentrate on assisting the Banking Supervision Department
of BNB in auditing and monitoring the quality of bank loan portfolios.
15.         The Banking Supervision Department of BNB, as well as the banks,
would be the beneficiaries of these activities, since the bank audits would
constitute a perfect basis for the start of banking supervision and the bank
inspectors would gain substantial experience for their future work through on-
the-job training.
16.         Bank management advisorv services.  Interim measures and advisory
services are imperative to assist the banks immediately in crucial areas, even
before any studies for a better planned institutional development can be
carried out. The project would finance a resident bank management advisor
(for about 2 years), preferably located in the Bankers' Association (to be
created), who would provide practical short-term assistance at the request of
the banks. This assistance would consist of advice on bank mergers and
guidance on any questions that might arise in the everyday management of
banks, e.g., on the preparation and implementation of new policies, procedures
and organizational changes, and would be provided to a bank at its premises
and through short seminars on market-oriented banking practices for bank
managers and personnel. It also includes a provision (18 person-months) for
short-term external assistance in areas where specialized expertise is
required.
17.         Training facilities.  The Bulgarian banking system cannot adjuet
to the requirements of a dynamic market economy without a substantial train' g
effort. Therefore, the project would include preparation of a feasibility
study for the establishment of a Bankers' Training Institute in Bulgaria and
initial financing of a resident advisor/trainer (about two person-years).
This institute would supplement in-house and overseas bank training/
partnerships of individual banks. This program will be carried out under a
program of bilateral assistance provided by the UK Know-How Fund.
18.         Modernization of the 2ayments clearing system.  "Bankservice," a
company created within BNB to provide automated accounting and payments
clearing services for the banks, has already done some initial research on the
introduction of a modern payments clearing system. The project would include
the design and planning of a new payments clearing system. The implementation
of the system (hardware) and the automation of individual banks would be
financed under the proposed financial sector operation, or from other sources.
11I. HUMAN RESOURCES (SOCIAL SAFETY NET) (USS5.6 KILLION)
19.         This component seeks to ensure that the requisite human resources
are available to meet the needs of economic restructuring, and also to
minimize the social costs of the restructuring process. To these ends it
supports modifications to the social safety net to target needy groups likely
to emerge during restructuring, and also supports a number of actions designed



- 19 -
to stimulate the growth of human resources and achieve an efficient use of
inputs in these areas. It comprises 5 sub-components.
20.         Social security and welfare.  The social security system will
require extensive modification and modernization to adapt to the needs of a
market-based economy. It will need to streamline its operations through the
introduction of new legislation, updating of systems of management and
control, revision of the actuarial base of the system, development of
appropriate information systems and technology, and an extensive program of
staff training. To provide these services, the project would finance: a
resident advisor for a period of 18 months, about 20 months of shorter-term
consultancy services; equipment inputs including software, information
systems, and the development of a networking capability; and a program of
overseas study visits and fellowships (particularly in the fields of actuarial
studies and health insurance systems).
21.         The social welfare system in Bulgaria has given relatively little
attention to the development of a system of preventive care for the mass of
the population through an effective country-wide network of social workers.
Such a system can help to ensure that those disadvantaged by economic
restructuring are speedily identified and appropriate remedial actions
initiated, thus minimizing the social costs of adjustment. To address this
need, the project will provide assistance in the area of system reform and
development, including legislation and the establishment of social indicators,
the improvement of training, the training of trainers, study visits abroad and
the provision of comparative foreign literature and training materials.
22.         Education. including hither education and science.  The Bulgarian
education system was designed to support a static and predictable labor
market. This sub-component would help remove bottlenecks to the capacity of
the sector to respond to the evolving skill needs of a restructuring and
market-oriented economy. It provides for the development of an achievement
measurement system, and for undertaking student tracer studies and would also
help develop proposals for system management, standard-setting, teacher-
training, srhool design and construction technique, foreign language teaching
and book development. Educational institutions need to respond to the
restructuring process by improving their management practices, and by
diversifying funding through developing revenue-earning capacity.
Internationally recruited consultants (about 24 person-months) would assist
the authorities in introducing such initiatives. In higher education in
particular, the project makes provision to assist in determining the form of
autonomy to be adopted. Finally, advice would be provided on restructuring
the funding system for scientific research, to ensure that adequate funds
continue to be available. Study visits abroad for officials and academics are
also envisaged in the areas of curriculum reform and institutional management
and funding. The EC-PHARE program will finance study tours for vocational
trainers relating to this activity.
23.         Health and environment.  The project would provide about 20
person-months of consultant services to support limited but critical
activities designed to enhance the role of the health sector in supporting the
restructuring process, primarily through the more efficient use of resources.
The principal focus of assistance would be on the improvement of health system



- 20 -
management at the national and regional levels. At the national level,
provision would be made for training abroad, advice in the application of
health economics to management, and a national sample health survey. At the
regional level, overeeas training would be given to some 30 regional
management staff in the areaw of planning, monitoring and auditing. Finally,
follow-up is needed to recent initiatives for health screening of the
populations of the most environmentally polluted regions, to permit the
extension of such screening to the rest of the population. The project would
finance a mall team (organization and laboratory specialists and a health
economist) and related equipment, to provide training to develop a system for
comprehensive health screening procedures, especially in relation to
environmental hazards. This sub-component would complement the UK Know-How
Fundle health services program which is currently underway.
24.         Emplovment services and small busnelss develooment.  The capacity
of the current employment service eystem is inadequate to meet the placement
needs or to administer effectively an unemployment benefit payment system in a
period of rapidly rising unemployment. Within the context of this project,
the UK Know-How Fund has agreed to provide the expert and advisory services
required for this sub-component, and the EC-PHARE program will finance the
data processing requirements. This assistance would support the activities
described in paras. 25-26 to enhance the functioning of the employment
services and to promote the creation of small business. It would also provide
for:(a) study visits abroad, including reviews of employment service office
operations, benefit payment procedures, integration of automated data
processing, and special support eervices; and (b) the acquisition of relevant
literature, journals, etc., and training materials.
2S.         To upgrade the employment services infrastructure, a resident
advisor (12 person-months) would be provided to work directly with the
Ministry of Employment and Social Security staff and to coordinate additional
activity by about 12 person-months of various short-term experts. The project
would Include a provision for data processing equipment to support a modern
labor market information system based on a needs assessment conducted by these
experts. The resident advisor woul4 facilitate the redesign of service
delivery, assist with its implementation, develop personnel qualifications,
and train staff, as well as coordinate the activities of short-term experts in
the following areass
a.      Development of a compreheneive labor market information system,
including training in statistics and labor market analysis.
b.      Legal advice, in terms of labor laws in a market economy, and
foreign labor contracts.
c.      Design of a data processing system, including recommendations on
software and hardware acquisitions and syetem configuration.
d.      Specialized assistance in employment services operations.
26.         The project would also provide about 20 person-months of short-
term advisors: (a) to develop mechanisms to stimulate job creation and limit
the growth of unemployment, especially in the area of small business



- 21 -
development as a colution to the growing unemployment among highly trained and
qualified individulas (b) to design specialized activities to expand
placement services to certain populations of the workforce (the disabled,
women, youth, etc.) more vulnerable to the economic changes triggered by
restructuring} (c) to create programs aimed at helping individuals cope with
unemployment and orienting them to the new labor market realities and
opportunities; and (d) to help develop policies, draft legislation, and design
collection and payment systems to address changes needed in the area of
unemployment benefits.
27.         Trainina and reaualification.  This sub-component would include
financing for 9 consultants (3 experienced training administrators with
knowledge of systems in use in European countries, 3 experts in training
methods and 3 specialists in skills assessment--tests and measurements), for a
total of about 56 person-months over a 2 year period, to work with senior
training administrators to improve the management of training systems. In
addition, the project would provide funds for study tours of one month's
duration for three teams of two persons each. One member of each team would
be a training administrator and one a production manager in a given industry.
if appropriate, each tour would be in two partss two weeks abroad followed
some months later by a second two weeks abroad.
28.         The second part of this sub-component would support the
establishment and equipping of a Model Regional Training Center, including the
provision of instructional equipment and materials (hardware and software), to
meet two critical needs: (a) it would serve as a prototype for establishing a
national network of regional training centers; and (b) it would provide a site
within the country for demonstrating effective training and re-training
practices to directors and staff of the existing training institutions.
29.         The Ministry of Employment and Social Security would be
responsible for this activity. It is expected that eventually the network of
regional training centers will be the focus for the training of trainers and
the updating of their technological knowledge. These centers will also serve
as sites for developing cadres of workers with new kinds of skills, in
anticipation that certain enterprises will break into new export markets.
IV. ENERGY 1USSl.3 million)
30.         The ratio of energy use to output in Bulgaria is much higher than
that of market economies with similar per capita income levels because energy
prices had been kept artificially low and development has been oriented
towards energy-intensive industries. The Government aims at increasing output
growth over the rest of the decade without increasing energy use by fostering
energy conservation and greater efficiency. This component would provide
financing for three studies in the energy sector as an initial step in
designing a comprehensive energy sector strategy to support this goal.
31.         Power aeneration (about 25 person-months).  A complete study of
the power generation sector, which is large relative to the size of the
economy, needs to be undertaken taking into account the results of the nuclear
and gas studies (below). Issues to be analyzed in this study would include:



- 22 -
(a) pricing of electricity which is now substantially below its long-run
marginal cost; (b) organization of the electricity sector; (c) cost reduction
measures; (4) costs of rehabilitating lignite-fired power plants to reduce
particulate and sulfur dioxide emissions; and (e) the likely level of electric
power demand.
32.         N-a=al Gas (about 12 person-months).  The proposed study would
investigate the possibility of expanding the country's use of gas, which is
currently utilized almost entirely for industrial purposes and for power
generation. Issues to be included in the study would be: (a) the cost and
availability of Soviet gas and the poseibility of diversifying sources of
supply; (b) the costs and benefits of expanding the use of gas in Bulgaria,
including converting polluting lignite power plants to gas, developing a
distribution system for gas for household, small industry, and commercial
uses, and converting a number of major heavy fuel oil boilers to dual-fired
systems; and (c) establishment of a regulatory system for the gas industry.
33.         Nuclgar (about 24 person-months).  The project would support a
study focussing on safety and environmental issues relating to the use of
nuclear power. Depending on the availability of alternative financing, this
could include a study of the measures required to make the existing nuclear
power plant (Kozloduy), which provides almost 35 to 40 percent of Bulgaria's
electricity supply, safer and more efficient. The study would examine the
means for bringing the four older 440 MW reactors into conformity with
internationally accepted safety standards, the desirability of and need for
building the planned additional 1000 MW unit, and options for disposing of
spent fuel.
V.  INSTITUTIOA  DVEPMENT (USS4.1 million)
34.         This component would provide advice and assistance to a number of
ministries and agencies in redefining their roles and in strengthening a
variety of new areas important in a market economy. It would include the
following sub-components.
35.         International Trade Regime.  Assistance (1 person-year and
associated equipment) would be provided to the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Relations (MFER) to respond to the new and different role it will play in
international trade. HFER will undertake a comprehensive review of the trade
policy regime, through the following activities, which would complement
support being provided by EC-PHARE to help modernize customs procedures and
arrangements.
a.    Ngn-Tariff Barriers (NTBs):   The project would provide technical
assistance to design a system which (i) minimizes and phases out
rapidly the use of NTBs, and (ii) reduces the negative economic
effects of the limited number of NTBs which may remain for some
time. The objective of this study would be to create a system
that is transparent and ensures equal access to ali potential
traders. This assistance would focus on providing an analytical
framework for determining the exceptional cases when export quotas



- 23 -
or taxes are appropriate and provide details on how best to
allocate quotas and determine export taxes.
b.    1Iort TaXiff Schedule-: Assistance would be provided to make a
comprehensive review of the existing tariff schedule, including an
economy-wide estimate of the structure of nominal and effective
protection rates. This could include drawing up a new tariff
schedule which would bs designed to encourage reduced and uniform
levels, and efficiency, thereby facilitating structural change of
the economy.
c.    Capital Tasactions:  This would address two issues: (i) to help
make direct foreign investment attractive, rules will have to be
established to govern the repatriation of dividends and to exempt
bona fide capital transfers arising from dividend payments from
restrictions on capital account transactions; and (ii) similar
rules will have to be established to allow bona fide investment by
Bulgarian citizens overseas.
36.         Ministry of Finance (about 24 person-months).  The project would
include financing for a resident advisor and short-term experts to assist the
Ministry in several aspects of Bulgaria's transition to a market economy and
on matters of particular concern to the Minister and his Deputies. The areas
of most immediate concern would be domestic debt management, a tax control
agency, a government auditing office, and accounting and management for the
ministry itself. The IMF is providing assistance in tax reform.
37.         Agenc=  for Economic Programming and Development (AEPD). This
Agency would be responsible for economic projections and analysis used by the
Ministry of Finance, the Bulgarian National Bank, the Ministry for Foreign
Economic Relations and other economic ministries and organizations. To ensure
consistency across ministries, these agencies will all draw on the same
macroeconomic framework, provided by the AEPD, in designing and implementing
the policies of indirect control appropriate to a market economy. The project
would finance macroeconomic experts with experience in other reforming
economies, as well as critical equipment.
38.         Debt   feMen  Committee (DMC).  This inter-ministerial committee
has been established by the Council of Ministers and is responsible for
developing and negotiating a strategy to manage Bulgaria's external
obligations and restore access to voluntary lending. The DMC will rely
heavily on information to be provided by a Debt Information Group, which, with
assistance from the Japanese Grant Facility, is constructing a data base on
Bulgaria's external debt. The project would provide expert assistance to the
DMC to design a debt strategy which is consistent with the overall
macroeconomic framework and financing plan.
39.         Central Statistics Offigce (CSO).  Improving measurement and
statistical capacity to assist in the monitoring of business activity and
upgrading systems to standard European practices is also an essential factor
in the economic reform program. The project provides support for an
assessment of the computerization needs of CSO. Limited funds could also be
allocated under the project to finance initial hardware and software needs of



- 24 -
the C80 in line with the eventual finding. of the study which is expected to
be carried out by the end of 1991. Concessional financing is being sought for
this study and is likely to be available from an EC-PHARZ regional program.
40.         Other Activities.  In addition to a provieion to finance other
priority technical assistance needs (consultants, related equipment and
training) which are critical to the success of the economic reform program and
which may emerge during the course of project execution, the project provides
financing for a resident project implementation adviaor. This advisor would
assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be set up within the Ministry
of Finance, as well as the key ministries and agencies, in the management of
all aspects of the project. Assistance would also be provided to set up the
PIU which, in addition to routine project implementation and administration
activities, would provide assistance to the various agencies in competitive
bidding procedures and practices.
B.     rolec&t Ad,nistratLon and Xmolementation
41.         The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance, would channel the
funds to the beneficiary agencies as part of the budget process. A *Project
Coordinating Committee" (PCC) in the Council of Ministers would be responsible
for overseeing the overall coordination and execution of the project. The PCC
is chaired by a Director of the Ministry of Finance and includes
representatives of other ministcies and agencies concerned with the project.
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU), to be headed by the Bulgarian task
manager for the project, will be set up within the Ministry of Finance. The
PIU would be responsible for financial control and for routine implementation
activities, and would also provide assistance to the various beneficiary
agencies in procurement, disbursement and reporting activities. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the PFU would be staffed by about three
individuals. The training and experience these individuals received in
implementing this project could be applied to future projects. Ministries and
agencies which are beneficiaries of Dank assistance would be responsible for
the implementation of those activlties within their jurisdiction and would
report regularly to the PCC and the PIU. Establishment of the PIU and
appointment of the Project Implementation Advisor would be conditions of loan
effectiveness.
C.    Proiect Cost. Financino. Disbursement. and Recortina and Auditing
42.         Proiect Costs. The total project cost (shown in Schedule A of the
Memorandum of the President) is estimated at about US$33.5 million equivalent.
Details of the cost estimates have been included in the Project working
Papers.
43.         All local costs have been converted to US$ at an exchange rate of
U8$1 - Lava 15. All costs have been subjected to contingencies of 15% to
cover 'ioth physical and price contingencies, in line with the Bank's present
price projections. The estimates for studies, consultancy assignments and
training are based on typical current costs for such assignments. There would
be a substantial involvement of internationally recruited consultants in all
the project components. The project would provide for only a limited amount
of equipment.



- 25 -
44.         Financing.  A summary of the project financing plan, which was
agreed during negotiations, is also shown in Schedule A and a more detailed
breakdown is given in Attachment 2. The foreign exchange cost requirements
are estimated at US$30 million. The local currency requirements (US$3.5
million) would be met by the Borrower from its own resources and from
available grant funding. The Bank loan would finance about 57X of the foreign
exchange cost of the project, the balance would be provided by EC-PHARE and
through the UK Know-How Fund. If additional financing (particularly grant
financing) becomes available for specific activities or components, such
resources could substitute for Bank financing. In this event, the proposed
Bank loan would either be reduced by a corresponding amount or be used for
additional related activities.
45.         Disbursements. Disbursements would be administered by the PIU.
The proceeds of the Bank loan would finance 100l of eligible direct foreign
exchange expenditures for equipment, 100% of ex-factory costs of locally
produced equipment and materials and 751 of local expenditures for other
items; 1001 of foreign exchange expenditures for consultancy services; and
1001 of expenditures for training. Withdrawal applications would be fully
documented, except for expenditures against contracts valued at less than
US$50,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of certified statements
of expenditures detailing the individual transactions. The documentation to
support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review
by the auditors (para. 48) and the Bank upon request.
46.         The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan is in
Schedule B. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993, and
the Closing Date would be June 30, 1994. Retroactive financing of up to $1
million would be provided to cover expenditures, primarily for the early
appointment of advisors, incurred after May 1, 1991.
47.         Special Account.  To facilitate project implementation, the
Borrower would establish a special account in US dollars in the Bulgarian
National Bank (BNB) to cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The
authorized allocation of this account would be US$2 million equivalent,
representing about 4 months of average expenditures under the loan. At the
request of the Borrower and, based on project needs, the Bank would make an
initial deposit or deposits into the special account, up to the amount of the
authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account
would be submitted monthly, or when one third of the amount deposited has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for
replenishment applications would follow the same procedure as described in
para. 45. In addition, monthly bank statements of the special account which
have been reconciled by the Borrower should accompany all replenishment
requests.
48.         ReRorting and Auditing.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the special account, all project accounts, and statements of
expenditure would be audited at the end of each fiscal year by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Such audits would be carried out in



- 26 -
*ccordance with internatlonal standards undertaken by auditors qualified for
this task. Audit reports for the preceding fiScal year would be made
available to the Bank no later than by the end of June of each year.
49.         To enable the PIU to monitor progress of project lmplementation,
it was agreed during negotiations that the PIU would furnish the Dank with a
sorles of reports on a regular basis. These reports will includes (a)
quarterly progress reports on implementation in a format and degree of detail
acceptable to the Bank; (b) audited financial statements within six months
after the close of each Bulgarian fiscal year; and (c) records, financial
statements, other progress reports or other types of information that the Bank
may request from tlme to time. Based on information provided by the various
beneficiary agencies, the PIU will prepare its contribution to the Project
Completion Report within six months of the Closing Date, covering all related
activlties during project implementation.
D.   Proagurmmnt
50.         Procurement would be the responsibility of the PfU. A breakdown of
project expenditure by procurement method is shown in Schedule S. The
procurement arrangements would be as follows:
a.   Consultant services:  The specialists for technical assistance,
for training and for studies to be financed from the proceeds of
the loan would be recruited by the Government from among
individual consultants or consulting firms in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. The Terms of Reference,
list of firms or institutions, and letters of invitation would be
reviewed with and approved by the Bank before inviting proposals.
Contracts for all consultants services would be subject to the
Bank's prior review and approval.
b.    WMinments Computer and other equipment grouped in lots totalling
$300,000 or more would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB). The remaining equipment and
documentation, grouped in lots estimated to cost more than $50,000
but leos than $300,000 would be procured through international
shopping, requiring price quotations from a minimum of three
vendors from three different countries. Total shopping would not
exceed the ceiling of $1.2 million equivalent, about 7% of the
total loan amount. Contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000,
up to an aggregate cost of $200,000, ma; be procured in accordance
wlth local shopping procedures. Competitive bidding would be
encouraged by grouping items together whenever possible.
Contracts awarded on the basis of ICB, and other packages with an
estimated cost of US$50,000 and above, would be subject to prior
Bank review.



UT MW=E  AC!IVflUB
HAe  Gmr,uAent              Pro,jet CVMmont                      Institutional Arragsmnts          Expected C'tpot/lpct                ThuDS
je.tvet                     Activities                            nd Respensibilities
1. Moan PRlVA ZSICTIM AND SESIIS
(a) Privatisation of       Assistanee with:
State                  (1) Devement of objectives            Steering Cinittee (am)            t)   bjectives and overall          10/91 - 01/92
nterprises             and stratea  for Privatisation                                          stratelw  for privatisetiUn.
tll) Intitutional develop mt         PA                (1 1               )  PA able to magne              10/91 - 10/93
of Privatisation Agencty.                                              privatisation proess.
(iii) Preparation of Initial         PA                                (lll) Successtul prepation          01/91 - 03/92
privatAsatiou transactions,                                            of initial transactios.
tb) Henagement of          Assistance with:                      (1) and Cii) FITS/Stoereig         Mi) and (11) Re-ommudations       10/91 - 04/93
Stet                   C1) Devt of listitutional             Comittae an 8E ImfagmenL          to Goverment on oveership
Enterprlses            arrangemet for vestng                 (to be established)               and management SrrangsnMnte
(U8E)                   menicrhip fution of Us.                                                of SEb and Initiation of
iupluatation.
C11) Development of corporate
gOvernance system for SE.
10/91 - 04/93
tlll) Esteblismnt and               (ILI) Hinmsty of Flnance          Ciii) MF unit operatiolal
operation of unit in MDF to          (NVF)                             and effective.
mooitor perfomance of Us.
(c) Restructuring of       Assistance with:
Industrial             (1) Development of sector             HUnistry of Industry. Trade       (1) Proposed sector strategy.       10/91 - 04/92
Enterprlses            stratea" for privaUsation and         A Services (HITS)
restructuring of industrial
enterprlses.
(Ci) Development of                  HMTS                              111) Cocept fot  appropiate         04/91 - 07/S2
institutiUnal capacity to                                              lnstitutional set-up.
faclltate restructuring.
(ILI) Prepration of                  HITS                              Clll) Proposed restructuring        11/92 - 05/02
restructuring programs for at                                          prglam.
least 3 subseotors.
(AV) Preparation of                   ITS/enterpriss siv) Proposed restructuring                           11/91 - 03/92
testructuting proSem ftor at                                           proarms
least S pilot enterprises (to                                                                                                            ft
be seleted).                                                                                                                             4i



S.       3     a-        UO., '% 
S..~ ~ ~       8Z -



7=PSOE AcirmV
in Gaveruaant            Project Cenponent                    institutlona  A£rtnagnamnts       Expected Output/Impact              Tming
jectives                 Actvities                            and Responsibilities
(v) Feasibllty study for the        BRs                               (v) Adequate training of            7/91 - 6/f3
establishment of Bankers                                              bankkes.
Training Jintitute and
assistance in establishing end
operating inStitutee 0cI.
training of trainers.
(vi) Feasibility study for          BRB                               tvi) Adequate bank pasmeants        8/91 - 1/92
design of- payments  learing                                          clearing servic
syst.an
cial Securitv Reform
IMprove                 Ci) Review revenue collection        Kinistry of Employment and        1. () ldentification of             10/91 - 4/93
erational and            and benefit disbursemet systal       social SecurityCHSS);             immediate oeasure  to ensure
nagement                                                      General Directorate of            revenue collection and
pacitios of the                                               Social security; Social           benefit distribution.
cial security                                                 Security Reform Coomittee                                             10/91 - 4/93
stan.                    Cil) Develop appropiate                                               til) Improvement In
infeoatiom  syatem and                                                administration through
teobuology.                                                            uitable bard- and soft-ware
network and trained staff.         10/91 - 9/92
(iii) Review orgenization and
mananeenmt of soecial security                                         (1ii) Organization adjusted
administration.                                                       to market-based econuwy.
including improved external
tiv) Prepare study periods for                                        and internal control                10/91 - 4/93
senior officials end staff in                                         aaohani.os
European countries,
itv) Acquaintance of
autborities with foreign
lgislAtion. organization and
4et. of eocial secuity
schemes.
Improve social          ti) Guidance Ln elaboration and      MISS; General Directorate of      2. i) New soc  sec. act             10,91 - 4/92
C. system during         draftin8 of social sec.              Soc. Sec.; Soc. sec. Reform       consistent  ith market
on. transition and       legislation,                         Comittee                          conditions, IL  conventions
der market                                                                                      and SC policy developsanta.
lented conditions
(iI) Guidance in elaboration                                          Cii) Complementary                  2/92 - 11/92
and drafting of complaemntur                                          (occupational and personal)
privato pansion act.                                                  pension scheme consistent
with public scheme and tax
system under elaboration.



"ai Goverment              Project Cmponent                      Institutional Arragemnts         Expected Outpt/psct                 findns
Objectives                 Activities                            and Responsibilities
(sii) Prepare costln                                                  Ciii) 1mprovd metbods to            2/92 - 5/93
procedres end ls-term                                                &asess costs of reform
projection methods for social                                         proposals and actuarial
progreMS.                                                             soundnes of public penion
Social Welfare Reform
Iprave social               1i) Guidance in elaboration and     HESS; Social Welfare Refom          i) New Social Welfare Act.        10/91 - 1/92
welfare System             drafting of social Security          Comittee
during economic            legislation.
transitLon and under                                                                                                                  10/91 - 4/92
market oriented             (it) Develop access,                                                   (it) Legal and organizational
conditions                 supervision and centrol                                                fr_work for nI proft and
procedures of private providers                                       for-profit org ations In
of social serices,                                                    the area of social services.
(lit) Access legialation.                                             (its) Enhanced infomatlon           10/91 - 4/93
doc_mts, literatur  and data                                          status of authsorities with
an experience of industrialized                                       reard to optimo  in soial
countries.                                                            welfare provsion.
(Iv) Revie  funding of social                                         (iv) improved and incmtive          2/92 -  292
welfare prgram  prowlded at                                           orientod finaneing system of
local level                                                           soCial welfare progrm.
(v) Review organization end                                           Cv) Improved social welfare         2/92 - 2/93
management of social welfare                                          provisions at local level,
frovisions.                                                           adjusted to future self-
meet. of local autborities.
(vi) Review and develop                                               (vi) QualiLfied training            2/92 - 8/93
trainins procedures for social                                        program for secondary and
workers.                                                              higher educ. units and
retraining progrin for
qoalified unemployed.
(vii) Provide training for                                            Cvii) Isproved delivery of          2/92 - 8/93
staff in European countries                                           social services.
will developed social welfare
services.
Edmcatie
Remove bottlenecks          Ci) Establisb system of             Ministry of Education (ME)        (i) Unified assessment              10/91 - 12/91
to sectoral capacity       assessing pupils' knowledge.                                           criteria.
to respond to
evolving needs of          (ii) Tracer studies of post          HE                                (ii) C4mpleted tracer studies       10/91 - 4/92
market-oriented            education experiences of                                               and application of fAtdinga
econcos                    8raduates.                                                             to revision of education
system.



"sn Government            Project Cemponent                    Institutional arrAange_ts         Expect.ed Output/twpect             TIMing
biectives                 Activities                           and Responsiblities
(ii) Innovatlon la curriculem,      ME. Ministry of Science and       (1ii) Det. of syllabi for           10/91 - 4/92
teacher training and caterials      Risher Education (MRHE)           foreign languaes ond related
for foreign languages,                                                teacher tralnng and teaching
Materials.
(lv) Diverslfication of sources     HE                                (iv) Greater efticiency and         11/91 - 3192
of financing for education.                                           lndependence of educational
institutions.
Cv) Revision of educ. materials     ME. publishing industry           (v) New syllabi and                 6/91 - 32/91
and modernization of thair                                            revitalizatieo of *duc.
production and distribution.                                          publishing.
(vi) Updating of vocational         ME                                (vi) Reorgaonied and                1/92 - S/92
training.                                                             oedernmied vocational
training.
(vii) Improvement of school         HE                                (vii) Standards for Laproved        31291-3/92
facllties.                                                            school facilUties.
(vll) Development of                MBHE                              (vll) Proposals for                 10/91 - 2/92
autonomous higbhr educ.                                               lncreasing autonomy of Rule.
lnstitutions.                                                         higher education lnstitutions.
Cix) Diversification of means       HHE. Accadesmes                   (ix) Kew methods of funding         10/91 - 4/92
of funding scientific research.                                       scientific researcb.
(x) Access to International         MME                               (x) Installation of necessary       10/91 - 10/93
academies and research networks.                                      information technology and
staff training.
tl) Development of regional         Me. regional health               (i) Trained cadre of regional       9/92 - 12/93
Acrease in                level health management.             authorities                       health mnagers.
perating efficiency
'f bhalth sector           (11) Development of national                                          (ii) new msrt. techniques and       3/92 - 12/93
level health management.                                              sample national health survey.
(ii) Introduction of national       man                               Oiii) Trained national staff        3/92 - 12/93
health screening system.                                              to carry out health screening.
hnlovment Services
. Improve Employ-         Ci) Analyze present Employ.          MESS                             Approved and established new        9/91 - 8/92
ent Services System       Service system's organization                                          administrative structure for
brough expanding          and functions at all levels of                                         the labor exchange network.
cope of prograns          the network.                                                           incl. regional and local
nd improving                                                                                     offices, with expanded
lelivery of services      (Ci) Develop a concept of role                                         services and modernied
and operation of labor offices.                                       operations.
incl. services, functions and
procedures.



%lmn overimat              Project Component                    Intitutional Aran ats             IpScted Dtput/It                   Ti
bjctives                   Activities                           and Responsiblities
(iii) Design mm Organizational
OAnd fctioal undol of labor
office _t. and operation.
(iv) Develop nw orsansztional
structure ftor labor exchane
networ, with expuAed services
sad fuctions  each unit's
respme. and relatioship to
the whole netork.
e. Increase                (i) Conduct study of current         mmSS                              (i) mad (11)  Personnel             12/91 - 9/92
professional               pers"nnel system. tacl. job                                            system esteblished which
ospabilties of             classifications, minim                                                 regulates job duties and
hiployenat Service         qualifications and selection                                           quaUlitications of staff.
md labor office            procedures. Conduct job
personnel                  analysis to detemaine skill
requironents of various
positions.
Cii) Develop standards and
criteria for WmaISs O ad loeal
office staff.  DeOise set of
standardised job
classitications. descriptions
and qualiflcations.
(iiI) Organize and conduct 2-3                                        (iii)  20-30 staff trained in       5/92   7/92
week intensive training course                                        new labor exchange functions
in Bulgaria for stoff selected                                        and nethods.
as lnstructors.
(iv) Organise and conduct local                                       Civ) Labor office staff and         23/91 - 6J9e
training sessions,                                                      anagers traiDed bY Bulgarian
instructors.
tv) Prepare and maintain                                              (v) System of training              3/92 - 6/93
courses and material for labor                                        courses and material
echange staff training.                                               developed ad available tor
onsoing staff training.
3. Maintain                Ci) Create specialized unit in       HESS                              Ongoing traintn8 and                10/91 - 12/91
effective deUvery          National Employment Office to                                          technical assistance
of labor exchanse          conduet training and prov9da                                           available to labor offices
services                   technical assistance.                                                  ft. core Stoop of labor
exchane axperts and existing
tli) Dovelop description of                                           within the National
responsibility and tunctions of                                       Rploynent Office.
unit.
Ciii) Study functlons of this
unit in other countitles.



TnE no   A
mIan Goverrept            Project Cempant                     Institutional Arrangeents       Expected  Output/Iswact           ltinin
mjectves                  Activities                          and RNsponulbilities
4. Alien 1sal basis       (1) Update legal som and           menS                             C1) Revised legl  oms ad          12/91 - 8/92
of employmt               documents.                                                          docuet.s.
service stem to
restructuring
Cii) Update legal noun.                                              i) Dulgaria  legal orms
pemts and contrls                                                  tht govern International
ad rinistard by Ministry an                                        exchange of workers tied to
forein worker and foreisn                                          those of otber natiom.
employers.
5. Develop effective       11) Desig  116 maneguont          NES                              (i) Incread quality and           11/91 - 6/92
l abo market Info.        pogsrm, imd. analsis.                                               quantity Of lador market
stm (CJ) to               forecasting and reporting.                                          intomatoin.
anlyse labor spply
=6alddmond.
(it) Train staff.                                                  (1C) U16 canter staff trained
in 16 manement technqes
(11i) Dewlop Stem to                                                 iil) Currt. complete 316m
collect. transmit, disseminate                                     data avail. to policy mokers
11 Casda   sd tsablisb data                                         mployers, syndicte,
users excabae network.                                             agenci  and Job seekers.
(Iv) Train staff In collctig                                       (Iv) Staff trained In U1
and reporting data and uew  of                                     production and dissemition.
1161.
Cv) Asses curraent date                                            Cv) Increased quty and
processin  capablities, dsign                                      quantity of 1EC   anagemnt,
systewide aehanc_ent.
prvide processing equpmnt
sad sotware.
6. Crate special          (i) Develop or iepert prgrm        mm                (_) and (11) program ed                          1/91 - 6/02
program to assist         fra  other coumtries to assit                                       service  provided to worker
the unaployed,            unemployed workers.                                                 to adjust to market ecenomy
Including special                                                                             contions,
targt grouw , ad          (i1) Train staff In pgran          mES
gana"te  e4oyet           delvry.
eyortoit,les
(111) Develop special job           ESS                           (CIL) Incrased emloyment
search assistan  ad job                                            emen taet gou.
plaemet pregrm.
(IV) EstabUsh program to           mm5                             (iv) Vocatioal counseling
provide vocational and job                                         progrems to place.
counselin.
Cv) DUvlo  program  for            mess                             v) Increased nA r of job
flexible altenative fom  of                                        openings Usted trn eman
employnt,                                                          busineses.



*1                                   g
e~~~*  ge¢ O                 ,*    3 ,   5S O£                 l
i                    ! s   s  §                     !(r ~  i   t
P~~~~ _



in  _OVAent              Project Caponet                     Ititutional  rrangements        Expected Output/Wiuet              Timin
LJtvet                   Activties                           and Responsiblities
for Sae  priority actvties         ministry of Education (MR)
ad matodology for tracini
trainer.
(v) Develop methodology for        HESS                                                                6/91 - 12/91
evalnating efficiency of Staff
training gd retraiting.
(vi) Choose one of several         MESM; mSmS; 1E                   Established standard canters       1192 - 2/J2
centers of retraining en the                                        for staff training and
basis of which en   establish                                       retraLning, conducted courses
standard centers.                                                   and assessed their efficiency.
(vii) Establish the modes and      FESS                                                                2(82 - 4/92
structure of standard center
and define priority sectors for
training and retraining.
(viii) Cbooe, train trainers      FESS                                                                4/92 - 3/93
for standard centers; conduct
courses for increasing quals.;
assess efficiency of increased
quals. (internal and external).
1.    E     e:SUUE 
ientify and analyze      Study of pow"er generation         eCsadttee on Energy              Analysis, rocem_dations to          10/91 - 3/92
osuos critical to        sector.                                                             mlprove efficiency ot power
access ot                                                                                     generating sector in environ-
bructural                                                                                    mentally acceptable cwmer.
rsforton                                                                                      Loot. review of elect.
mg6rm                                                                                         pricing and elect. denand
growth rate projections.
Study to livestigate                bulsargas                       Recenandatlona an possible         19l1 - 1219
poSSIility of expanding the                                         ways to *xpand iUigexia's use
use of gas, including for                                           of gas  x@vnuding for
electrieity generation.                                             electrocity generatlonf   and
on establishing system to
regulate gas industry.
Study of safety and                Camnittee en Energy                 _        Cdatlona en measure    0/91 - 1/02
environamntel issuos of nuclear                                     to lncreose osatty and
poer seneration,                                                    efficiency of existing
nuclear power plan (Kosloday)
desirability of building
additional reactors, and
options for disposing of
spent fuel.



bin Gvment                Project Camponent                    Znstitutional Arrangements        Zaoctod Output/Impact               TiSing
bjectiv                   Activitiea                           and ResposibiLities
P.     0
L. LImiu:
kieknise customs           (1) Desim a system of reduce         (i)  aiistry of Foreign          Ci) Prep. of amalytical             7/91 - 1W91
aleerin  a   data         the  egative economic effects   E cOnoie celtions CMER)                fraework for dctemining
ollecut   system/        of 9Eth.                                                               when export quotes or taxese
matit. and meke                                                                                  are appropriate. rec imend.
empr.bensive review                                                                              on how to allocate quotas and
if trade pOliCy                                                                                  detezoine export tares.
(ii) Comprehensive reSvew of         (11) WFm                         (1C) Recomendations for new         7191 - WS91
eRisting tariff schedule.                                             import taiff sebedule
includang estimates of nominal                                        designed to encourage
and effective protectiUn rates.                                       efficiency.
(11C) Study of capital             (Cii) WmER                         (tli) Recozsendtions of             7/91 - 12/91
transactions regulations.                                             rules to make direct foreign
invest. more ettrective end
allow boe fide lnvest met by
301g. citizens overLsea.
t.  D     _
MIMIAM (MM)                                                                                                                                                          CT*
oevelop Debt               Advice to IXC and MME on debt        DWc/MeR                          Debt Strategy consisten with        8/91 - 6/92
Strategy                  =maeMnt strategy,                                                      overall mecreecn. ftraework
and finanong plan.
Centra l  Attis-
Lis 0tffle (CS0)
Improve system of           oa ss_mt of computerization        Cso                               Recomendations on                   10/91 - 32/92
:entral statistics        neods of CSO and recoamendation                                        computerLsation needs of CS0.
en system to be implemented.
Implementation of initial          2/92   9/92
phase of computerisation,
b. satl o                  Advico to lnsister and deputies      MrF                              ongoing advice to HDP to            1/92 - 12J93
an.teL. (NW)               an is,ues relating to                                                 lmprove efficieney and
transition to a market economy,                                       capability to deal with
priority issues arising
relating to the reform.
i         (^ECAD)
bihence                    Hatoecnosiec advice an issues       ARPD                              Chgoin  aedvice to ARPD.            1/92 - 12/93
acroeconomic               relating to transforngn
malysis capability         economies.



La evwz4mment            Project Component                    Institutional Arransements        Expected OuItput/IMpact             TmI-aS
jectives                 Activities                           and Responsibilities
ProAect Inm1emen-
Dist in mnsmngment       Assistmnce to PIU and                PIU                               Early appointment of Advisor        9/91 - 9/93
4 coordination of        boneticiary a6encis in routine                                         and onsoiS support in
eject activities         project adminstration and                                              project-related activities.
inplmantation activities.
Other                   Assistance to key ministries as                                        Timely advice to key                11/91 - 12/93
needed.                                                               ministries for critical
issues as the need surfaces.
l



-38.                      Attacdmmnt 2
Papg i of 2
BULGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFOR
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
UucusuuUfluuuuuuau
Component                               Local  Forefgn    Total
-- (SS million)-......
1. Private Sector Devt, Privatization & Restruet.
a. Privatination of SEs                             0.4       2.9      3.3
b. SE management                                    0.2       1.1      1.3
c. Restructuring of industrial enterprises          0.5      4.6       5.0
d. Accounting and auditing                          0.1       0.9      1.1
e.  Legal framework for business activity           0.2       1.?      1.9
............ ..............
Subtotal                                  1.5     11.1      12.6
2. Bank Restructuring and Reform
a.  Study of banking system structural 1ssues       0.0      0.1       0.1
b. Restructuring of banks:
(f) Portfolio Revfews                        0.0      0.2       0.2
(ii) Diagnostic and institut. studies         0.2      2.2      2.4
d. Nanagement advisory services                     0.1       0.8      1.0
e. Bankers' training facilities                     0.0       0.4      0.4
f.  Payments clearing system                        0.0      0.3       0.3
..... .....................
Subtotal                                  0.5      4.0      4.5
3. Nuan Resources Development
a.  Social Security and Velfare                     0.1       1.5      1.6
b. Education                                        0.0       0.6      0.6
c. Health and envirorment                           0.0       0.8      0.8
d. Emloywment services                              0.1       1.1      1.2
e.  Training and retrafning                         0.3       1.6      1.9
e................ ...... ...
Subtotal                                  0.5      5.6      6.1
4. Energy Sector Strategy
a.  Power Generation Study                          0.0       0.5      0.5
b. Gas Study                                        0.0       0.2      0.3
c.  Nuclear Study                                   0.0       0.6      0.6
..... ....................
Subtotal                                  0.1      1.3       1.4
5. Institutional Development
a.  International trade regime                      0.0       0.3      0.3
b.  Minfstry of Finance                             0.1       0.5      0.6
c.  Agency for Economic Programing & Devt.          0.0       0.2      0.2
d.  External Oebt Management                        0.0       0.2      0.2
e.  Central Statistics Office                       0.0       0.2      0.2
f.  Project Iqplementation Adviser                  0.1       0.3      0.4
g.  Other priority activities  *                    0.1       2.5      2.6
..............................
Subtotal                                  0.4      4.1      4.5
.............. ..................... .... .........*
Total Base Cost                           3.0     26.1      29.1
Contingencies                                   0.4      3.9       4.4
....................
Total Project Costs                             3.4     30.0      33.5
1/ tncluding taxes and duties
Totals may not add because of rounding
-* Includes an unallocated amount of $1.0 million for possible hardware
and software purchase for computing system for CSO depending on findings/
recommendations of study



- 39 -                                           Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
BULGARIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECON0MIC REFORM
FINANCING PLAN
Govt/Other             EC-      UK
Component                                     Local        WS   PHARE      KHF    TOTAL
--.-.-.-------- (US$ millions)-..
1. Private Sector Devt, Privatization & Restruct.
a.  Privatization of SEs                                                     3.3               3.3
b. SE managemnt                                            0.2       1.1                       1.3
c.  Restructuring of industrial enterprises                0.1      0.8      4.1               5.0
d.  Accounting and auditing                                                  1.1               1.1
e.  Legal framework for business activity                  0.2       1.7                       1.9
Subtotal                                        0.5       3.6     8.5              12.6
2. Bank Restructuring and Reform
a.  Study of banking system structural issues              0.0      0.1                        0.1
b. Restructuring of banks:
(i) Portfolio Reviews                              0.0       0.2                       0.2
tii) Diagnostic and institut. studies                                 2.4                2.4
d.  Fanagement advisory services                           0.1      0.8                        1.0
e.  Bankers' training facilities                                                     0.4       0.4
f.  Payments clearing system                               0.0      0.3                        0.3
Subtotal                                        0.2       1.4     2.4      0.4      4.5
3. Human Resources Development
a.  Social Security and Welfare                            0.1      1.5                        1.6
b.  Education                                              0.0      0.5      0.1               0.6
c.  Health and environment                                 0.0      0.8                        0.8
d.  Employment services                                                      0.5      0.7      1.2
e.  Training and retraining                                0.3       1.6                       1.9
Subtotal                                        0.4       4.4     0.6      0.7      6.1
4. Energy Sector Strategy
a.  Power Generation Study                                 0.0      0.5                        0.5
b.  Gas Study                                              0.0      0.2                        0.3
c.  Nuclear Study                                          0.0      0.6                        0.6
subtotal                                        0.1       1.3                        1.4
5. Institutional Development
a.  International trade regime                             0.0      0.3                        0.3
b.  Ministry of Finance                                    0.1      0.5                        0.6
c.  Agency for Economic Programming & Devt.                0.0      0.2                        0.2
d.  External Debt Management                               0.0      0.2                        0.2
e.  Central Statistics Office                              0.0      0.2                        0.2
f.  Project Itplementation Adviser                         0.1      0.3                        0.4
g.  Other priority activities **                           0.1      2.5                        2.6
Subtotal                                        0.4       4.1                       4.5
Total Base Cost                                 1.7      14.8    11.5      1.1     29.1
Contingencies                                          0.3      2.2      1.7     0.1       4.3
Total Project Costs                                    2.0     17.0    13.2      1.3      33.5
1/ Including taxes and duties
Totals may not add because of rounding
For components cofinanced with EC-PHARE, EC-PHARE contribution indicated is for
estimated cost of component as described in the project and does not reflect the
total EC-PHARE program proposals.



IIRD ~2A
23                      24                                              24                      27                                     7
Dant be River 
_1 Koiov'C ~R O                          M  A  N  I Ab
44     ~       JT.idinr                                                                         CY                            } Sevemt  \   cVid
Y U G  O             S L A V I                                                                                                                MBerkocc   
Skwpje  e                  k6-
byId Bk>  ~,  n . . f                                                                                                                          BLACK
;niov>s f 4  ( d h.bot ,do4. 
/h     r. R F F C  E            ~~~~~~~~~~u n
T.~ 
blriloO - /edorw  v23      ZQ            24'                                              6~r                                 T      )
Skcprhd  I.I='W,El 
YUOLA4 ULAI                                    BU LGARIA                                                                                                    .
TUGCSthVIA  U R K E GYA R IOTBR19
Te}~~~~~~~~~~~~ OREC                        E E C



