Page  1
March 27, 1996
His Excellency
Dimitar Kostov
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovski Street
Sofia 1040
Bulgaria
Excellency:
Re:
Loan No. 3384 BU
(Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project)
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
We refer to the Loan Agreement (Technical Assistance for Economic Reform 
Project) dated July 22, 1991 (the Loan Agreement) between the Republic of Bulgaria 
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank), as amended, and to our discussions concerning proposed amendments regarding the 
changes in the names of some of the implementing agencies and the inclusion of the 
Securities and Stock Exchange Commission and its activities in the description of the 
Project.
We hereby confirm the Bank's agreement to the amendments to the Loan Agreement 
set forth in the Annex hereto.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing, dating 
and returning to us the attached copy of this letter.
This amendment shall become effective upon receipt of the countersigned copy of 
this letter by us.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
Director
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
By /s/ Dimitar Kostov
       Authorized Representative
Date April 17, 1996
ANNEX 1
AMENDMENTS TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT
(Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project-Loan 3384-BU)
1.
New sub-paragraph (y) is added to Section 1.02 to read as follows:
 
"(y)  'SSEC' means the Securities and Stock Exchange Commission of the 
Borrower, or  any successor thereto";
 
2.
New sub-paragraph (z) is added to Section 1.02 to read as follows:
 
"(z)  'NSSI' means the National Social Security Institute of the Borrower 
or any 
successor thereto".
Page  2
3.
Sub-paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 is replaced by new sub-paragraph (f) to read 
as follows:
"(f) 'MLSA' means the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs of the 
Borrower or the 
successor thereto."
 
4.
The abbreviation "MESS" wherever it appears in the text of the Loan Agreement  
means "MLSA".
5.
Sub-paragraph (x) of  Section 1.02 is replaced by new sub-paragraph (x) to read 
as follows:
"(x)  'FIA' means the Foreign Investment Agency of the Borrower or the 
successor thereto.
 
6.
The abbreviation "FIC" wherever it appears in the text of the Loan Agreement 
means "FIA".
7.
The words "or the successor thereto" are added at the end of sub-paragraphs (e), 
and  (g) through (x);
8.
The words "foreign expenditures" are deleted from category (2) of Schedule 1;
 
9.
The words "and financing of consultants' services" are added at the end of 
Section C.1 of Schedule 2.
10.
New Section (9) is added to Part E of Schedule 2 to read as follows:
 
"Assistance to the Borrower in setting up the operations in the initial 
period of 
functioning of the SSEC and  provision of equipment to the SSEC or 
the successor thereto in 
this period.
 
11.
New Part E(9) is added to the Annex to Schedule 2 to read:
 
"Part E(9) Support for the supervision SSEC and regulation of stock 
exchanges"
12.
In the Annex to Schedule 2 the words "NSSI" are added in the last column of the 
line: "Part C (1) ".
13.
The amount of $200,000 specified in paragraph 2 of Part C of Schedule 4 is 
increased to $300,000.
