Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(Legal Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated July 2, 1991
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1991, between the REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement, dated July 30, 1990, between Japan 
and the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, 
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement; and
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
     (ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Sec-tion 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
     (ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank 
and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02 the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
     (ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
    (iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Condi-tions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited;
     (vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
    (vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the Grant have been 
paid or are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at the 
request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and 
"¥" mean the currency of Japan.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of seven million yen (¥ 7,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account for 100% of expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed 
out of the Grant.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Technical Assistance with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate legal and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Technical Assistance. 
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical 
Assistance, the Recipient shall employ legal consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and condi-tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Recipient on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Administrator in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
Page  4
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The President of the Interministerial Commission for Coordinating 
the Foreign Debt Management and Coordinating the Cooperation with the International 
Economic and Financial Organiza-tions, Banks and Groups, of the Recipient is 
designated as represen-tative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
12 Sofijska Komuna Street
Sofia
Bulgaria
Telex:
23462
22024
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
Page  5
By /s/ Mariana Todorova
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ R. J. Cheetham
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE
Description of Technical Assistance
The objectives of the Project are to assist in strengthening the Recipient's 
legal capabilities to develop and implement a suitable medium-term debt management 
strategy, consistent with sound macroeconomic policies.
The Project consists of the following activity, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives, namely, the design and negotiation of an appropriate debt 
reduction program.
