Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4023-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 90.0 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A CHIAPAS AGRICnLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 29, 1985
This document bas a restricted distribution and -y be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank muthorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex $)
On March 31, 1985, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 = Mex$208.79; the freemarket exchange rate stood at USS1 = MexS226.85.
Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Mex$0.21 per day against
the US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha)                 =  10,000 m2  =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)       =  0.39 sq.miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                =  2.2 pounds
I liter (1)                    =  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton (t)  =  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF         -   Average Cost of Funds
BANRUR4dL   -   National Rural Credit Bank
CECADE      -   Economic Development Training Center (SPP)
CONAFRUT   -   National Fruit Commission
CONASUPO   -   National Marketing Organization for Basic Foods
CUD         -   Federal/State Coordinating Agreements
COPLADE    -   State Planning and Development Committee
EFF         -   Extended Fund Facility
FIRA       -   Agricultura! Trust Fund
FICART      -   Trust Fund for Credit in Rainfed Districts
FIDEC      -   Agricultural Marketing Fund
[CB        -   International Competitive Bidding
IVA        -   Value Added Tax
IFAD       -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB        -   Local Competitive Bidding
LIBOR       -   London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
NAFINSA    -   Nacional Financiera, S.A.
NDP         -   National Development Plan
O&M        -   Operation and Maintenance
PDR         -   Regional Development Program
PIDER      -   Integrated Rural Development Program
PLANAT      -   Rainfed Agriculture Development Program
PRODERITH  -   Program for Development of the Humid Tropics
SAM         -   Mexican Food Program
SAP        -   Special Action Program
SPA         -   Secretariat of Agrarian Reform
SARH       -   Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SCT         -   Secretariat of Communication and Transport
SEDUE      -   Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
SHCP        -   Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP        -   Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Beneficiary:       Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH)
Amount:            US$90 million equivalent.
Terms:             Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Objectives and
Description:      The proposed loan is one of two being presented simulta-
neously (agriculture and rural roads development) as part
of the Bank's participation in an integrated development
program for the State of Chiapas, in the Southeast of
Mexico. The Chiapas Development Plan is designed to
address the main constraints to the development of the
State - namely, a depressed social environment, under-
utilized agricultural resources and lack of adequate
communications -  through an integrated approach placed in
the context of a wider development scheme for the south-
eastern region of Mexico. At the core of this program are
the investments required to achieve a more balanced socio-
economic development in the areas of influence of the
proposed parallel agriculture and rural roads projects.
The proposed project would support the initial phase of
this program through execution of an agricultural develop-
ment program in coordination with other social and economic
development efforts. It aims at bringing new land into
rainfed crop production and intensifying crop and livestock
production on existing land, increasing agricultural
production and productivity, and generating rural employ-
ment and income. The project would cover an area of about
317,500 ha. To achieve these objectives the project would
provide for: (a) construction of flood control and road
works; (b) strengthening of administration; (c) carrying
out on-farm development works; (d) provision of soil
conservation structures; (e) strengthening of production
support services; and (f) preparation of studies.
This document has a rstrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofTicial dutics Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



- ii -
Beneficiaries:    The project would largely focus on "ejidos" and smallhold-
ers, directly benefit ing about 32,000 rural families and
providing full-time employment for about 15,000 people. In
addition, it would benefit most of the urban families in
the area of influence of the flood control and service road
works.
Project Risks:    The project faces three possible risks.  The first flows
from the fact that the institutional framework for
coordination of Federal and State level planning and
implementation activities is new and largely untested in
practice. This institutional risk may also have implica-
tions for the provi3ion of adequate and timely counterpart
funding. To address this problem, the Government is taking
steps to improve the institutional and budgetary capabili-
ties of the executing agencies involved. The second and
third risks could be the beneficiaries' failure to adopt
high-yield technologies and to switch to intensified crop
production. Both would be minimized by strengthening the
extension, research and promotion services, and providing
drainage and river control infrastructure improvements.
The project's major target group--small farmers-are
expected to respond positively to incentives under the
prcject. Therefore, adequate safeguards are provided
against the three major risks of the proposed project.
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
----(USS millions)--
I.    Investment Program
Civil Works Construction                 35.5       21.8        57.3
On-Farm Development                       8.8        5.4        14.2
Machinery, Vehicles, Equipment            2.1        5.3         7.4
Technical Services                       11.8        2.2        14.0
Supporting Services                      32.5        5.8        38.3
II.   Project Base Cost                          90.7        40.5      131.2
III.  Physical Contingencies                      7.7         5.0        12.7
IV.   Price Contingencies                        26.3        11.4       37.7
Total Project Cost 1/                 124.7       56.9       181.6
1/ Net of taxes.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
----(US$ millions)-----
Government:                               89.8         -          89.8
Bank                                      33.1       56.9        90.0
Beneficiaries                              1.8        -            1.8
Total                                124.7       56.9       181.6
Estimated                                        Bank FY
Disbursements:               1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  191  1992  1993
-    ~  - - - US$ millions ----      -
Annual                   7.5  10.5  14.0  14.0  15.0  16.0   8.5   4.5
Cumulative              7.5  18.0  32.0  46.0  61.0  77.0  85.5  90.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         19%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 5167b-ME, dated March 25, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTI/
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A., (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$90 million to help finance a Chiapas
Agricultural Development Project to be carried out by the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resouces (SARH). This project is associated with a
Chiapas Rural Roads Project and together they form the Bank's support for the
initial phase of the Chiapas Development Plan. The proposed loan would be
repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. The report's main conclusions and recent economic developments are
summarized below.
3.        Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some two decades of high and stable growth after the early 1950s. By the late
1960s, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the -easy" and efficient possibil-
ities for import substitution, and faced a choice between outward-oriented
growth or continued inward-directed growth led by expansion of public sector
expenditures and rising subsidies and protection of inefficient domestic
production. By 1972 the choice was made to pursue the latter course. Public
sector expenditures as a percent of GDP more than doubled between 1970 and
1982, from 18.8% to 42.5% (Report No. 4996-ME, p. 114). By 1976 Mexico
experienced a serious financial and economic crisis, followed by an even more
serious one six years later. The discovery of large oil reserves in the
mid-1970s led Mexico to a quick economic recovery, but it also removed the
urgency of policy reforms. Primary among these was the need to reduce
protection and the anti-export bias of the trade regime to thereby move over
time toward greater efficiency and international competitiveness. Oil revenues
also temporarily helped finance the public sector deficit and reduced the need
for greater fiscal restraint.
1/   Parts I, II and III of this Report are identical to the corresponding
sections of the President's Report for the Chiapas Rural Roads Project
(Report No. P-4022-ME) being distributed at the same time as this
report.



-2-
Developments during 1977-1982
4.        The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez Portillo
Administration (Jan. 1977 - Dec. 1982) to overcome the serious financial crisis
of 1976 and to start working on structural, social and economic problems,
including poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment, regional
imbalances and relatively slow agricultural growth. In the early years of that
Administration (1978-80) GDP growth was high (8.5% a year), 2.5 million jobs
were created, domestic consumption recovered, and the share of investment and
savings in GDP surpassed historical levels, but the economy became increasingly
overheated.
5.         Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to
increasing public deficits. While inflation rose, no significant pressure was
felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the relative
ease of obtaining foreign finance. By mid-1981, the economic situation began
to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial crisis. The current
account deficit of the balance of payments reached 5.2% of GDP, while the
deteriorating international oil market conditions caused large revenue
shortfalls with respect to budget expectations. The public sector deficit rose
to just under 15% of GDP. Non-oil exports dropped, and the trade deficit
reached record levels.   External borrowing was used to finance part of the
domestic fiscal deficit and to defend the exchange rate. Mexico's foreign debt
increased rapidly, at a time of high and rising international interest rates.
A stabilization program initiated by the Government in mid-1981 was not
Sufficient to redress the growing fiscal imbalance, the high cost of foreign
loans and the increasing private capital flight fueled by the public's anxiety
over Mexico's financial troubles.
6.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40% devaluation in dollar terms. A large wage adjustment granted
in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community became reluctant
to commit new funds to Mexico, in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35% in August 1982, while the acute shortage of foreign
exchange forced the Government to suspend the amortization payments of most of
Mexico's external public debt pending a broader agreement on its refinancing.
Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by the
nationalization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory conversion of
US dollar deposits into pesos. Also put into effect were a generalized system
of exchange controls and quantitative trade restrictions covering an
unprecedented 100% of imports.
Recent Developments
7.        The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to recover domestic and external



- 3 -
confidence, and stabilize the public sector and external finances. The
Government's stabilization program supported by an EFF agreement, approved by
the IMF in December 1982, laid the basis for restoring economic stability and
for the re-negotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on which
amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial banks
agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide US$5
billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between August
23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight year period,
starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at an
interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York
prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year
grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The
restructuring exercise included an understanding that the international banks
would maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been nationalized.
At the same time, it provided a mechanism that would eliminate 1982 private
sector interest arrears and facilitate payment of the rescheduled principal on
such debt.
8.        A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at MexS95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35% in relation to
the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. It
depreciated at a rate of 13 centavos a day until December 1984, when the daily
slide was raised to 17 centavos. The free market rate had remained at about
Mex$150 per dollar until September 1983, when the authorities decided to let it
slide as much as the controlled rate. The differential between the two rates,
which in December 1982 stood close to 60%, is now down to less than 10%. Over
the past two years, the peso has gradually appreciated in real terms as
inflation in Mexico remained high. The Government increased the rate of slide
of the peso from 13 centavos a day to 17 centavos in December 1984 and to 21
centavos early March 1985, in order to bring it closer to the expected
inflation differential between Mexico and its trading partners. Domestic
deposit interest rates were also raised in early March 1985 from an average of
about 45% to nearly 50%.
9.        Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a
drastic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0% of GDP in 1982 to
8.5% in 1933, 5.5% in 1984 and 3.5% in 1985. Substantial progress has been
made during the past two years in meeting the program objectives although the
targets for 1984 were not fully met. The public finances were strengthened
considerably and the public sector deficit was reduced to 8.7% of GDP in 1983
and an estimated 7.4% in 1984. The main reason for the higher budget deficit
than the 1984 target was the much higher than expected interest payments on the
domestic debt. Curbs on expenditures were wide ranging. However, recent
estimates suggest that real public investment -- encompassing states and local
governments -- may have been well in excess of the targets fcr 1984. The
authorities have given priority to completing projects that were already far
advanced and to those that were important for employment, equity, or foreign



-4-
exchange earnings. Nonetheless, public investment expenditures are estimated
to have declined to about 7% of GDP in 1983-84, well below the 1982 level of
11.7%. The fiscal performance was also aided by significant price increases
for nearly all public goods and services, including petroleum products,
electricity rates, food, etc. The Government has committed itself to a
substantial reduction and eventual elimination of most subsidies, including
those provided in the form of low interest rates.
10.       The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround in 1983 with
the current account moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a
surplus of US$5.5 billion. The strength of the current account and the
availability of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its
international reserves while paying a large part of the arrears that had
accumulated in 1982. The net use of foreign financing by the public sector was
US$4.2 billion for the year--below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the
stabilization program. The errors and omissions account of the balance of
payments dropped from US$8 billion in 1982 to an estimated US$1.4 billion in
1983, largely reflecting the decline in unrecorded capital outflows. The swing
in the current account was mainly the result of a very sharp contraction of
merchandise imports, to US$7.7 billion representing a decline of about US$7
billion from their 1982 level. The recession, the large devaluation of the
peso and the quantitative restrictions all contributed to this. The balance of
payments remained strong in 1984, with a current account surplus of US$3.7
billion, and a further US$2.5 billion were added to the nation's foreign
exchange reserves, which at the year's end are estimated at about 7f months of
imports. Although imports recovered considerably, a rapid rise in non-oil
exports, particularly in the first quarter of 1984, ensured that the trade
surplus remained at the same level as in 1983, i.e., about US$13 billion.
Growth in tourism and in-bond industry was also strong, and helped in
alleviating unemployment. These favorable external trends during late 1983 and
early 1984 weakened in mid-1984, owing to an appreciating real exchange rate.
11.      Fighting inflation remains the pivot of the Government's stabilization
program. Although the Government's own inflationary targets have been missed
by wide margins, the rate of inflation continued to decline through mid-1984.
It declined from a rate of about 100% in 1982 to 80% and 59% in 1983 and 1984.
The main factors in this were restrained fiscal and monetary policies and
moderate wage adjustments. The flow of savings into the banking system
continued to rise, reflecting the beneficial influence of the exchange rate and
interest rate policies. The impact of the severe and sudden cuts in public
expenditure and imports on economic growth in 1983 was serious when GDP
declined by over 5%. However, the economic recovery in 1984 was stronger than
the Government's expectations: GDP is estimated to have risen by about 3.5%
compared to the earlier estimate of only 1%. Since the latter half of 1984,
fiscal, monetary, and external trends have signaled a possible resurgence of
inflationary pressures.
12.      The Government also took steps to regain the confidence of both
domestic and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with
the problems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of



nationalized banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment
law.  Negotiations with commercial banks and other private creditors have been
completed for the refinancing of nearly half of the total of US$11.6 billion of
private sector obligations at stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12
years, with 3- to 4-year grace periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the
restructuring of Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official
credit agencies abroad.  The Government has also transferred back to private
ownership most of the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial
banks prior to their nationalization. These measures and announcements have
been beneficial, but more remains to be done to restore confidence of Mexican
entrepreneurs and foreign investors. The Government realizes that this is an
issue of the greatest importance as economic recovery beyond the current
stabilization period will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous
private investment.
13.      The general improvement in the Mexican economy has been widely noted,
particularly by the international banking community. Mainly for this reason,
the Government's 1984 borrowing of US$3.8 billion from commercial banks carried
much more favorable terms than the borrowing in 1983 (10 year maturity, 5-3/4
year grace period, and a spread of 1+% over LIBOR or 1-1/8% over prime). The
negotiations between the Government and foreign commercial banks on the
rescheduling of foreign debt have been virtually completed. The draft
agreement, covering close to US$50 billion, has been submitted by the Banks'
Advisory Group (consisting of the 13 largest lenders) to some 500 smaller,
regional banks for their acceptance. Under the proposed terms, the previously
not-rescheduled debt (amounting to about $20 billion), which is due for
repayment in 1985-90, will have its maturities stretched over fourteen years.
The maturities of the previously rescheduled debt coming due in 1987-90 will be
stretched over eleven years. The 1983 syndicate loan of $5 billion will be
restructured, after prepayment of $1 billion, to carry terms identical to the
1984 syndicate loan. In summary, the pending rescheduling agreement will
stretch maturities of US$50 billion public debt in such a way that the debt
service remains virtually constant between 1985-1998, in contrast to the
present situation where 75% of the debt service is due in 1986-89. The banks
will have the choice of LIBOR, a domestic reference rate, or a fixed rate.
These terms are based on the understanding that the Government will continue to
adhere to prudent economic policies.2/
Medium-term Prospects
14.      The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1983-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present
crisis with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth
to overcome structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the years
ahead include the still very high rate of population growth (2.6% estimated for
1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a little under
4%), slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed interpersonal and
interregional income distribution, and an overly oil-dependent economy with a
strong anti-export bias.
2/   As of this writing, the rescheduling agreement was expected to be signed
by end-March, following the agreement with the IMF on the third year
EFF, announced March 25, 1985.



15.      The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy including a greater export orientation
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through basic
needs policies and improvement in labor absorption, and decentralization of
economic activity. The basic elements of policies to address structural
problems are mentioned in the NDP and further details on specific programs and
schedules for policy adjustments are provided in the sectoral plans which were
prepared subsequently.
16.      Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are reasonably good, provided economic management continues to be prudent,
private sector confidence is restored, and the international environment
remains favorable. Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued
efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade and minimize price
distortions. Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial since only a
strong and dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the
present depressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oil export surplus
required for the resumption of growth. As regards the external environment,
the commercial banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real
terms, and foreign markets to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports. Mexico will
benefit directly from a continuing fall in interest rates in the world
financial markets (a one percentage point drop means a savings of about US$800
million in overall interest payments which compares to a loss of $550 million
in gross export revenues that would result from a one dollar drop in the export
price of oil).
17.       Under reasonably favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 6% a year--the post-War average for
Mexico --towards the late 1980s. This growth would materialize through a
sustained redirection of the economy toward a more outward-oriented growth
pattern. Fiscal discipline, in the absence of improved domestic efficiency and
export development, is likely to entail a prolonged period of slow growth,
characterized by insufficient labor absorption in internationally competitive
activities, by domestic price distortions, and by continued need for subsidies.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983 and by about a similar amount in 1984. With an expected net new borrowing
of some US$3 to US$4 billion a year, the ratio of external debt to GDP would
decline steadily from 41% in 1984 to 33Z by 1990. The debt service ratio,
after the proposed rescheduling, is projected to peak at 47% in 1988,
thereafter it gradually declines to about 25% in 1995.
19.       At the end of 1983, the last year for which a comprehensive external
debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was
4.3% (excluding undisbursed). The Bank share in Mexico's total public external
debt service payments during that year was 4%. In view of the good medium and
long term potential of its economy and the prospect of continued pursuit of
sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is considered
creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
20.       As of February 28, 1985, Mexico had received 85 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$6,831.3 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 58 loans totalling US$3,495.2 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$5,488.8 million, of which US$2,031.7 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 42% of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development, 232 for industry, 11% for power, and 13% for transportation; the
remaining 11% has been for water supply, tourism, urban development, vocational
training and pollution control projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of February 28, 1985.
21.       Of the US$6.83 billion total lending, about US$3.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and mediur-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather
than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
22.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982 and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78
to US$448 million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again
causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds, consequently, disburse-
ments in FY83 declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was
established in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart
funding constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank financed projects are
receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disburse-
ments during 1984 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35% over
disbursements in 1983.
IFC Operations
23.       As of February 28, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$562.5 million
had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in
preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchange
financing to private sector companies for the importation of machinery,
equipment and spare parts required for production of exportable products, for



efficient import substitution and for improvements in the utilization of their
existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility
(including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is
providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted
under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribn-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help fina:.ce projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment; (c)
help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close cooperation
with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program through as-
sistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic and sector
work. As for medium term prospects, the volume and composition of Bank lending
to Mexico would be related to progress in the implementation of policy reforms
needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy conditionality
affecting the entire lending program or important parts of it. Specific policy
reforms that are being pursued through a dialogue with the Government,
conducted in parallel with the processing of lending operations, cover priority
macro-economic and cross-sectoral issues, such as interest rate policy, energy
pricing, subsidy reduction and export development.
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living
in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its
lending.  The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals:
first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in general;
second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third,
to complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as
extension, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-
generating investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 14 loans in FYs78-83
totalling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricul-
tural, agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan
for a rural development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation
rehabilitation project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a
US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was
approved in early FY83. A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was
approved by the Executive Directors in April 1983 and a $300 million Eighth
Agricultural Credit Project in June 1984. Projects for irrigation
rehabilitation, extension and research (seed multiplication) and agricultural
credit are in various stages of preparation.



- 9 -
26.        Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employ-
ment. A steel project which the Bank helped structure and finance is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of Mexico, and
the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new
growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects to promote the development of
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to finance expansion of small-
and medium-scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI)
were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. A US$90.0 million loan
for a vocational training project, which is assisting a program to increase the
supply of skilled workers and technicians, a US$152.3 million loan for the
development of a capital goods industries project and a US$60 million loan for
pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A
modification in the capital goods project was approved by the Executive
Directors in early 1983 to set up a pilot export development fund to help
satisfy the foreign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan
for an Export Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third Small-
and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY83. Follow-up projects to support expansion of small and medium
scale mining enterprises and vocational training are under preparation.
27.        Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. Two high-
way sector projects (FY79 and FY84), the fourth railway project (FY81) and an
industrial ports project (FY84) support these goals. The first and second
medium-size cities water supply and sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce
the planning, management and finance of specialized water supply and sewerage
institutions at the federal and municipal levels, and contribute to the
establishment of tariffs more closely related to costs; a third project was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983. A fifth railway project
is under preparation.
28.       The Gcvernment has adopted a National Urban Developmen1t Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project
to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by
the Executive Directors in FY7d, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FY81. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982. A 'ow income housing
project is under preparation.
29.        The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (Centro
de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico under the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, monitoring
and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional
development, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has
also assisted the Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water
supply and industrial credit projects.



- 10 -
30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.4 billion as of December 31, 1984. Over 50% of the total has
gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development, and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for
the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and
livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel
development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in
the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the
Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administerinig the loan.
31.       Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer and tourism projects in
Mexico have been co-financed by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects
where project specific co-financing would have been difficult.
PART III:  THE CHIAPAS DEVELOPMENT PLAN
The Setting: Chiapas and the Southeastern Region of Mexico
32.       The Southeast, which includes the States of Tabasco, Veracruz,
Campeche, Quintana Roo, Oaxaca and Chiapas, is the least developed region of
Mexico. Until the recent discovery and production of oLl in Tabasco, Veracruz
and Chiapas, this region grew at a lower rate than the rest of the country.
Despite many natural resources, the Southeast suffers from socio-economic
constraints which have hampered development efforts (serious infrastructure
bottlenecks, shortage of skilled manpower and underdeveloped human resources).
The region also has the highest concentration of indigenous population. Within
the Southeast, Chiapas is perceived as a region of great economic potential,
especially in agriculture, tourism and agroindustries. As a result, it has
recently received priority attention from the Government.
33.       Chiapas is the most rural State in Mexico with a population of 2.3
million, of which about 25% is indigenous. It is one of the poorest and least
developed States in the country, with a per capita annual income of about
US$350, compared with the national average of US$2,250. However, it is well
endowed with natural resources which have not yet been fully exploited or
explored. About one third of the population is estimated to live in urban
areas which is about half the average national ratio. Agriculture represents
about 36Z of the State's GNP, accounting for 80% of all employment. Services,
commerce, construction and transport account for 31% of GNP and industry,
mining (petroleum) and hydro-electricity for the remaining 33%.



- II -
34.       A poor intrastate communications system has kept factor mobility low,
and thus contributed to sharp income and social disparities between the four
different subregions (the Coast, the Central Depression, the Central Highlands
and the Tropical Forest). There is a danger that plans for the accelerated
development of Chiapas, if not properly conceived and managed, could exacerbate
these disparities because the most promising investment opportunities lie in
the relatively flat Coastal areas and Central Depression (irrigation and drain-
age) where incomes are already higher and population densities lower than
average. The least developed and relatively densely populated parts of the
State are the less fertile and more fragile sloping areas in the Central High-
lands (the Altos) where communications are difficult. The Government aims at
pursuing a more balanced growth pattern, with priority focus on tree crops,
rainfed agriculture and transport in :he Central Highlands. A major effort is
being made to identify and prepare projects that will yield substantial and
sustainable income increases in those areas. Its initial stages are being
supported through the studies component of the proposed Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project.
Regional Development Strategy
35.       The Government requested Bank assistance in the formulation of a
strategy for the development of Chiapas in September 1980. The following year,
a multisectoral Bank mission visited the State and its report contributed to
the formulation of the Government's first initiative in regional development
policy and the Chiapas Development Plan, launched by the President of Mexico in
May 1983. In 1984, a similar plan was formulated for the neighboring State of
Oaxaca. Other State development plans are under preparation.
36.       The new regional orientation in Mexico's approach to development
planning also required institutional changes to ensure the proper coordination
of Federal and State Government activities. As of 1981, Development Planning
Committees (COPLADES) were established in each State to plan, monitor and
evaluate the activities of regional branches of central Federal Government,
with the State Governor as chairman and the Regional Delegate of the
Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP) as technical secretary. The
central Government agencies are also represented on such Committees. These
committees formulate and propose annually to the Federal and State Governments
the investment, expenditure and financing programs for the State, and oversee
the execution of regional development plans. Furthermore, to formalize the
coordination of development planning and project implementation at the State
level, Coordinating Agreements are entered into between the Federal Government
and each State (Convenios Unicos de Desarrollo, CUDs). Such an agreement
between the Federal Government and the State of Chiapas was signed in February
1984. Within this framework, specific coordinating agreements would be entered
into for the implementation of the proposed parallel Agricultural and Rural
Roads Projects (Section 3.02(a)(ii) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
37.       Chiapas contains a number of unique ecological reserves which are
important in terms of wildlife and plants, as well as for watershed management,
soil conservation, water quality, fisheries and tourism potential. With Bank
assistance, the Government has established an environmental review process
applicable to all construction works, with the Secretariat for Urban Develop-
ment and Ecology (SEDUE) acting as the responsible agency, to duly manage the



- 12 -
impact of the proposed investments under the Chiapas Development Plan on the
delicate ecological balance and on the indigenous population in the State.
Program Objectives
38.       To address the current uneven pattern of the State's development, and
to help integrate the economically marginal regions into the development pro-
cess, the Chiapas P1.elopment Plan aims at promoting greater social and econo-
mic equality between the various subregions and productivity improvement
generally. These objectives would be achieved through a package of carefully
balanced and integrated plans for the development of physical and social infra-
structure and directly productive activities, mainly in agriculture, supported
by improvements and expansion in rural communications system. The first stage
of the Plan was initiated in 1983 and is expected to be implemented over the
remainder of this decade. Bank participation in the financing of this first
stage includes the proposed priority Agricultural and Rural Roads Projects, as
well as measures to help monitor the program's impact on the natural environ-
ment. The Government will finance basic infrastructure components and special
assistance subprograms for the indigenous population mainly concentrated in the
Altos subregion. Under the proposed Agricultural Development Project, the Bank
would support this objective by helping finance soil conservation structures
and related technical assistance, which are critical for the sustained develop-
ment of this subregion. The second stage of the Chiapas Development Plan would
focus in particular on the promotion of agroindustries, fisheries, forestry and
energy development. Future Bank participation would be dependent upon the
identification of suitable investment opportunities through the studies
component included under the proposed project.
39.       Execution of the investments supported by the Bank would be the
responsibility of Federal sector agencies involved, the Secretariats of Agri-
culture and Water Resources (SARH) and Communications and Transport (SCT).
This would include physical planning, construction and supervision. Implemeu-
tation of appropriate environmental protection measures would be the responsi-
bility of the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE). At the
Federal level, a special multisectoral Directing Council for implementation of
the Chiapas Plan, composed of representatives of all the agencies involved,
would provide overall guidance. At the State level, COPLADE would coordinate
and monitor all project activities (para. 36). Counterpart funding for the
proposed agricultural and rural roads projects would come from the budgets of
SARH and SCT and the Regional Development Program (PDR). Agricultural credit
would be financed outside the Chiapas Plan budget through existing credit
programs in the State which are adequate to meet financing requirements under
the Plan.
Program risks
40.       The Chiapas Plan is the first integrated regional development opera-
tion in Mexico within a new and largely untested institutional framework.
Inevitably the new institutions are of uneven quality. The Federal and local
executing agencies within the CUD/COPLADE system (para. 36) would receive
substantial inputs through the various projects to improve their institutional
and budgetary capabilities. Despite those mitigating measures, the execution
of this complex multi-sectoral program entails a certain risk. However, the
risk is considered inevitable and acceptable if the Bank is to support Mexico's
renewed regional development efforts in a substantive and timely manner.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR3/
Agriculture in the Economy
41.       Mexico's agricultural sector contributes about 10% of the gross
domestic product, employs about one-third of the country's active labor force
and contributes about 6% of the country's exports. Between 1945 and 1955,
agricultural production growth rates averaged about 6% annually, but declined
to about 4.4% between 1955 and 1965, and to less than 3% between 1965 and
1980. During the latter period, production increases from newly irrigated land
slowed down and agricultural terms of trade gradually worsened. However,
agricultural production increased at an annual average rate of about 8.5% in
1981 and 1982. The increase was the combined result of favorable weather
conditions, higher farm-gate prices and large input subsidies under the
Government-sponsored Mexican Food Program (SAM). During most of this period,
the population grew at an annual rate of about 3.3%, but growth has declined
recently to about 2.6% annually.
42.       The reduced agricultural production growth before 1981, coupled with
increasing internal demand, resulted in increased food imports and
deterioration in the agricultural trade balance. In 1979 the country
experienced its first agricultural trade deficit, and in 1981 the deficit was
over US$1 billion. However, since 1982 the agricultural trade deficit has
begun to decrease primarily due to reduced imports influenced by substantial
devaluations. Since 1970, corn, wheat, soybeans, sorghum and powdered milk
have been the principal food imports, representing almost 8% of total imports
in 1980. During the same period, cotton, coffee, and vegetables constituted
the main exports.
Production, Trends and Past Agricultural Policy
43.       Mexico's basic crops, which include maize, beans, wheat, rice,
sorghum, soybeans and sugarcane, are produced on about 75% of the cultivated
area. Production has varied strongly from year to year with a growth trend of
1.5% to 2.5% over the 1970s, i.e., well below the population growth rate.
Government intervention in the price setting and marketing of these crops
gradually grew stronger over the decade. With the pressure to protect the
consumer against increased food prices during a period of gradually increasing
inflation, the terms of trade worsened and negative protection rates
prevailed. As a result, imports of these crops increased sharply: maize
imports from 736,000 tons in 1970 to 3.8 million tons in 1980, and sorghum
imports from 10,900 tons in 1970 to 2.8 million tons in 1981. From 1980 to
1982, the Government attempted to reverse this trend by substantially
increasing farm-gate prices and introducing a range of input subsidies in the
3/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Eighth Agricultural Credit Project (P-3843-ME of June 4, 1984).



- 14 -
context of SAM. Farmers respondeA positively, but as consumer prices for the
basic products were allowed to rise at much lower rates, consumer subsidies
also increased, and the Government program turned out to be too costly to
maintain after 1982.
44.       The production of export crops (mainly coffee, fruits and
vegetables), which has remained relatively free from Government intervention in
trade and prices, showed an annual average growth of about 12% up to 1979. In
the ensuing three years, exports of these crops stagnated, mainly due to an
increasing overvaluation of the Mexican currency. However, indications are
that since 1982 growth has resumed. On livestock activities, beef production
grew at an annual rate of 7% between 1975 and 1982; pork, poultry and egg
production increased at even higher rates, between 1OZ and 12% annually over
the same period. These growth rates were sufficient to cover increased
domestic demand, and Mexico's traditional beef exports were basically
maintained. Milk, however, which is produced under controlled prices, grew
only about 1.8% per annum during this period. Milk imports in the ten years
before 1982 rose at an annual rate of about 20%, and presently equal about 16%
of total production in fluid equivalent.
45.       Growth in related sectors has been mixed: (a) the agroindustrial
subsector grew 10% during the 1970s, and in 1979 accounted for about 18% of the
industrial sector's output; (b) the forestry sector, which includes about 21
million ha of commercial wood, is underexploited, producing only about 9 mil-
lion m3 of wood products in 1981; and (c) the fisheries subsector has shown
significant growth in recent years rising from an annual catch of about 0.25
million tons in 1970 to about 2 million tons in 1982. Approximately 30% of the
value went into exports (mainly shrimp), and about 50% of the total catch went
into fish meal.
Present Agricultural Policy
46.       At the end of 1982, when the new Government took office, there was an
urgent need to reassess and reorient agricultural development policies. After
substantial devaluations, domestic farm-gate prices had deteriorated in real
terms. Strong price increases, especially for the basic commodities, were
required if farmers were to maintain and increase production levels. On the
other hand, in order to lower high inflation levels, there was a need to
contain increased food prices. Also, in view of high public sector deficits,
the Government's agricultural subsidy policy needed to be overhauled.
47.       The Government's policy, as outlined in the National Development Plan
(NDP) for 1983-1988, is designed to accelerate agricultural growth, alleviate
poverty, and correct regional economic and social imbalances. The policy
emphasizes the importance of agriculture in increasing Nexiran exports and
production of import substitutes. The stated policy over the medium term is to
guarantee farm prices which are consistent with international prices. However,
in the short term, emphasis is being placed on adequate compensation for the
increased cost of production and a reasonable profit margin to producers to
determine price levels. Prices for basic crops and milk (i.e., mostly the



- 15 -
controlled sector) increased between 120% and 160% in nominal terms during
1982, 1983 and 1984, and are presently 80-90% of international prices at
current cxchange rates. Input subsidies have been substantially reduced;
subsidized prices for cash inputs (fertilizer and seeds) are now only available
to small farmers holding less than 20 ha each. Interest rates on agricultural
subloans, which until now were fixed and generally negative, have been made
variable and are expected to approach positive levels in the medium term. The
movement in rates has been referenced to the latest average cost of funds to
multipurpose banks (ACF)4/. Irrigation water rates were increased an average
of about 200% during 198'T and subsequent adjustments are being made toward the
stated goal of recovering operation and maintenance costs wherever possible,
under a general strategy to improve the use and management of Mexico's water
and soil resources. The Government has also taken steps to decentralize
planning, programming and implementation of rural development projects to state
and local levels and to improve interagency coordination. Agricultural policy
dialogue between the Government and the Bank has been intense in the recent
past, and both have agreed to a continuous policy dialogue in the future.
Previous Bank Projects
48.       In the past ten years (FY74-84), Bank participation in the
agricultural sector amounted to US$2,823 million distributed among 20 projects
as follows:
(a) Irrigation: (Panuco 969-ME), Sinaloa I (970-ME), Rio
Fuerte/Sinaloa II (1706-ME), Bajo Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan I
(1111-ME), Apatzingan (1858-ME), Ocoroni (1908-HME) and Bajo Rio
Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan II (2100-ME) - US$654 million;
(b) Integrated Program for Rural Development PIDER I (1110-ME), II
(1462-ME), and III (2043-ME) and Papaloapan Basin (1053-ME) -
US$455 million;
c) Rainfed Agriculture: PLANAT (1945-ME) and San Fernando
(2191-ME)-US$418 million;
(d) Agricultural Marketing: FIDEC (2262-ME) - US$115 million;
(e) Agricultural Credit: FIRA V (1217-ME), VI (1569-ME), VII
(1891-ME), VIII (2454-ME) - US$1,065 million;
(f) Area Development: Tropical Agriculture PRODERITH (1553-ME) -
US$56 million; and
(g) Small-Scale Agriculture Infrastructure Development (1643-ME) -
US$60 million.
4/   The weighted average of interest rates paid by financial institutions on
bonds, notes and certificates of deposit, excluding checking and savings
accounts. The ACF is established monthly by the Bank of Mexico.



- 16 -
49.       Since issuing the Staff Appraisal and President's Reports for the
Eighth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2454-ME) on June 4, 1984, the Bank has
issued completion reports on two irrigation projects (Panuco, Loan 969-ME;
Sinaloa, Loan 970-ME; and a rural development project (Papaloapan, Loan
1053-ME). It is currently processing the completion reports for the Bajo Rio
Bravo Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1111-ME) and the Second Inte-
grated Rural Development Project (PIDER II, Loan 1462-ME). The lessons learned
and taken into consideration in designing the proposed project have been that:
(a) in preparing irrigation projects, the alternative of developing rainfed
agriculture should always be considered; (b) a strong extension service is
necessary for the development of agriculture; (c) projected agricultural
production targets should be based on tested models; (d) large civil works
components require advanced preparation before appraisal; (e) phasing should be
considered for large projects with expected long implementation periods; (f)
complex multi-sectoral projects, such as PIDER, with many components and
executing agencies, are difficult to manage and implement; and (g) projects in
new areas especially where experience and knowledge are limited, should be
modest in scope and design, reflecting a pilot approach. In Chiapas, however,
a pilot approach is not considered necessary because of experience gained with
ongoing projects in the area (para. 59).
50.       Implementation of ongoing agricultural projects, with the exception
of credit, is currently slow because budgetary counterpart funds are limited
and also because of cumbersome financial control procedures. The Government,
in cooperation with the Bank, is now reviewing the financial control procedures
in order to accelerate disbursements. Also, under the Bank's Special Action
Program (SAP), all ongoing projects have been reviewed, cost estimates have
been revised, an increased share of the project cost is being financed by Bank
funds for two years and partial loan cancellations have been made, totalling
US$220.4 million in 1984, where implementation was lagging substantially.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
51.       The proposed project is part of a long-term development strategy for
the State of Chiapas first formulated with Bank assistance in 1981 and subse-
quently embodied in the Government's Chiapas Development Plan (1983) (paras. 35
and 38). Subsequently, the Bank selected two priority areas as crucial to the
initial stages of the Plan: agriculture and rural roads development and a
Bank mission identified the proposed Chiapas Agricultural Development Project
and the Chiapas Rural Roads Project in 1983. The proposed project -- which is
part of the first phase of the Chiapas Development Plan and associated with the
proposed Chiapas Rural Roads Project - was prepared by SARH. It was appraised
in March 1984 and negotiated from February 25 through March 20, 1985, together
with the Chiapas Rural Roads Project (Report No. P-4022-ME dated March 29,
1985. The Mexican delegation was led by Mr. Luis Nava, NAFINSA, and included
representatives from the Secretariats of Programming and Budgeting (SPP),



- 17 -
Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH) and
Communications and Transport (SCT). A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Chiapas
Agricultural Development Project" (No. 5167b-ME, dated March 25, 1985) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary Project data
are included in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The proposed project would support the Government's strategy to
increase agricultural production, accelerate economic growth, alleviate
poverty, and address issues of regional and social development. The objectives
of the proposed project would be to (a) increase the area available for rainfed
crop production and intensify crop and livestock production on existing land;
(b) improve agricultural productivity and exports; and, (c) generate rural
employment and increase family incomes.
53.       The project would include a total area of about 317,500 ha covering
255,000 ha on the Coast, 55,000 ha in the Central Depression, and another 7,500
ha in the Central Highlands (the Altos). Specifically, it is designed to
support Government efforts to: (a) improve infrastructure by constructing
river control dikes, farm service roads and drains; (b) strengthen administra-
tion of the rainfed districts operations by providing field offices, housing,
workshops, equipment and vehicles for operation and maintenance; (c) provide
on-farm development works, including drains, land clearing, and land smoothing;
(d) provide for construction of soil conservation structures; (e) strengthen
production support services, extension, research, training, fellowships, and
related technical services (including local and foreign consultants); and (f)
carry out studies (basic, feasibility, marketing and storage, environmental and
socioeconomic) to provide data for this project and identify future agricul-
tural development potential in the State.
(i) Infrastructure Component
The proposed project provides for (a) construction of about 350 km of
flood control dikes along the rivers flowing into the Pacific Ocean, to protect
farmlands and rural communities located in the Coastal area; (b) construction
and rehabilitation of about 475 km of farm service roads in the Coastal and the
Central Depression areas; (c) construction of about 600 km of primary and
secondary drains to remove excess surface water in the coastal areas, as well
as of about 300 km of drains with roads and some 300 related auxiliary
structures; and, (d) soil conservation works (terraces, gully erosion control,
reservoirs and waterways) mostly in the Altos subregion.
(ii) Administration and Operation Component
For implementation, operational and maintenance purposes, the project
includes: (a) provision of six field offices, including workshop, storage and
staff housing facilities, as well as the required equipment and tools; (b)
provision of all heavy equipment required for the maintenance and operation of
the road networks, drainage and dike systems in the project area; and,
(c) acquisition of vehicles required for the research, extension and adminis-
trative activities included in the project.



- 18 -
(iii) On-farm Development Component
To assist on-farm development needs, the Government would provide
adequate medium and long-term credit for construction of drains, terraces, land
smoothing, and land clearing on about 30% of the project area.
(iv) Production Supporting Services Component
To promote a higher level of production and efficiency, the project
would support (a) employment of 345 incremental staff to strengthen services in
the subproject areas and to ensure a rapid transition from traditional exten-
sive livestock to intensive crop and livestock production; (b) carrying out a
research program to improve yields, test new crop varieties, and improve farm
management practices; (c) training of staff and farmers and provision of
fellowships; and (d) consulting services to strengthen SARH operations in soil
conservation, environmental and sociological evaluations, and to conduct basic
and feasibility studies.
(v) Related Studies Component
Since this project represents the initial phase of a longer-term
development program, the project would support a major studies component to
promote future development objectives. Specific areas of study would cover:
pre-investment and basic studies on about 630,000 ha, soil surveys, bathymetric
and hydrographic surveys, marketing and storage studies, periodic socioeconomic
and environmental reviews (including, in particular, areas in the Altos
subregion) to help monitor and correct the impact of the proposed and future
development activities in the State.
Project Costs and Financing
54.       The total project cost would be about US$181.6 million, net of taxes,
including a foreign exchange component of about US$57 million, or 31% of the
total. The base cost is estimated at about US$131 million, and physical
contingencies are about US$13 million, based on an estimate of 15% for civil
works and 10% for equipment, vehicles, goods and materials. Price contin-
gencies, estimated to be about US$38 million, or 29% of base costs, are
calculated at 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986, 8% for 1987-1990, and 5% thereafter,
based on Bank guidelines. The project completion date is September 30, 1992.
55.       The proposed Bank loan of US$90.0 million would be made to NAFINSA
and would finance about 50% of total project costs, including US$33 million
(26%) of local costs, in accordance with Bank policy for Mexico during the
current recessionary period to expedite implementation of this key component.
The Borrower would, through contractual arrangements on the same terms and
conditions as those of the Bank loan, transfer loan funds to the Government for
the carrying out of the project (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The balance of the project's cost would be funded through regular SARH budget
allocations. At negotiations, the Government confirmed that adequate counter-
part funding had been earmarked for 1985 and would be provided on a priority
basis for the subsequent years of project implementation.



- 19 -
56.       Retroactive financing of up to US$9 million is included to cover
eligible civil works expenditures incurred by SARH after July 1, 1984 but prior
to the estimated date of loan signing (Schedule 1, para. 2 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Administration and Execution
57.       The proposed project would be carried out by SARH under the organiza-
tional framework for rainfed districts and that established by the Government
for the coordination of the Chiapas Development Plan (para. 36) (Section 3.01
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
58.       As under previous Bank-financed agricultural development projects,
infrastructure design, tendering, construction and supervision would be carried
out under SARH's Secretariat for Large-Scale Irrigation Works, through the
district offices. Operation and maintenance of the facilities and the
project's technical services component would be the responsibility of SARH's
Secretariat for Agriculture and Operations. The representative of SARH in the
State of Chiapas would, with the assistance of management and technical commit-
tees, coordinate, supervise, monitor and evaluate project implementation in
each rainfed district. The committees would have representatives from among
producers and the Federal, State and local Governments. COPLADE would
coordinate activities between SARH and the other participating Federal and
State institutions and would be responsible for the overall planning and
evaluation of all activities under the Chiapas Plan, including those of the
proposed project.
59.       Design standards and construction specifications would be those
developed under a Bank supported PRODERITH pilot pLoject and which are
satisfactory. Based on corapleted final engineering, SARH would prepare and
furnish to the Bank, not later than December 1, 1986, and every year thereafter
during project implementation, an execution program of infrastructure
improvement works to be carried out during the subsequent calendar year
(Section 3.04(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The first year's
investment program, which would be submitted to the Bank prior to the proposed
loan's Board presentation, would help a smooth start-up for the project by
focusing on the acquisition of rights-of-way, final engineering designs of
dikes, drains, service roads and office and workshop buildings, as well as the
hiring of new technical staff.
Project Area Selection and Beneficiaries
60.       Although the areas to be developed under the proposed project have a
good potential for rainfed agriculture and adequate surface and ground water
for future irrigation development, they are not sufficiently cultivated. This
is especially true on the Coastal Plain which offers the largest and easiest
area to augment production significantly in the State of Chiapas. In the
Coastal and Central Depression regions, rivers dominate the topography, causing
extensive flooding and disrupting communications. In some areas of the Central
Depression, yields may be reduced by as much as 60% due to flooding and poor



- 20 -
drainage. To achieve the stated project objectives (para. 52) and to help cope
with these constraints, investments in the project area would be directed, as a
matter of priority, to improving rainfed agricultural development. Both the
Central Depression and the Coastal land are suitable for a wide variety of
crops, and the Altos is excellent for fruit productior..
61.       While the areas to be included in the project in the Central
Depression region have been well defined during project preparation, in the
Coastal area, of the total 255,000 ha to be protected from flooding, some
90,000 ha would be fully developed through the project. Selection of these
full development areas has not yet been completed and a proportion of such
areas will be identified through the annual SARH execution programs of
infrastructure improvement works in the State (para. 59). Therefore, during
negotiations, agreement was reached that, in the programming of the areas for
full development, the following criteria would be followed: (a) the lands are
primarily occupied by 'ejidos"5/ and private smallholders; (b) the areas are
technically and economically suitable for agricultural production; and (c)
production support services are already established in the areas (Section
3.04(b) and (c) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). In the Altos, most of the
7,500 ha to be included in the project would grow tropical fruits, and the
specific areas would be selected by SARH, in coordination with the National
Fruit Commission (CONAFRUT), through an ongoing program, the technical features
of which are satisfactory.
62.       The project is designed to focus on -ejidos" and smallholders.  How-
ever, each of some 76 holdings -- comprising 10Z of the project area -- exceeds
the individual legal limit of 200 ha established by the 1981 Agricultural
Development Law. In selecting areas for full development under the project,
SARR would, as far as practical, avoid these large holdings. If, for technical
reasons, it is not practical to avoid infrastructure works on large holdings,
SARH would, together with the Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA) and within
the existing agrarian legislative framework, redistribute holdings in excess of
the legal limit before any such holdings were incorporated for full agricul-
tural development under the project. Through these measures the proposed
project's social objectives would be considerably strengthened (para. 83).
Coordination with the Chiapas Rural Roads Project
63.       The project, together with the proposed Chiapas Rural Roads project,
aims at promoting the adoption of uniform design and maintenance standards for
all roads (service and access) to be constructed in the areas of influence of
botl, the proposed projects, so as to ensure that SARH and SCT, in coordination
with COPLADE, would take all necessary steps to coordinate their work in the
State of Chiapas. To strengthen this process of coordination, the Government
agreed at negotiations that it would, by December 31, 1987, carry out a review
51/   Ejido," a form of group land tenure based on usufruct.



- 21 -
of rural roads construction and maintenance practices by SARH and SCT in the
State with a view to rationalizing design, construction and maintenance
practices and defining the allocation of maintenance responsibilities between
these two agencies (Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
64.       Operation and maintenance of existing drains, dikes and roads, as
well as those to be provided under the project, would be the responsibility of
SARH's Secretariat for Agriculture and Operations. In its annual project
implementation plan for the State, SARH would include financing and execution
of a regular periodic operations and maintenance program for infrastructure and
equipment. Initially, emphasis would be given to rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure, with new works to be taken over as they
are completed under the project. To determine the growing volume of road
maintenance requirements under the project, SARH would conduct a statewide
review and formulate a road maintenance and rehabilitation program (para. 63).
Beneficiaries would be encouraged to contribute labor for operation and
maintenance to reduce costs.
On-Farm Development Credit
65.       To enable the project's beneficiaries to carry out the required
on-farm development activities, the Government would, as a matter of priority,
provide credit to farmers through existing credit sources from banking institu-
tions operating in the State, such as the Agricultural Trust Fund (FIRA), the
Trust Fund for Credit in Rainfed Districts (FICART), the National Rural Credit
Bank (BANRURAL), and commercial banks, all of which are adequate to meet these
needs. This credit would be granted under the same terms and conditions as
those of the ongoing Bank-assisted FIRA VIII credit project (Loan 2454-ME) and
would benefit mainly ejidos and smallholders in the State. SARH would, through
its extension, promotion and farmer organization services, assist these lending
institutions. During negotiations, the Government agreed to ensure the timely
availability of funds for the provision of financial assistance to the
project's beneficiaries for on-farm development and the acquisition of inputs
(Schedule 1, Part C of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Cost Recovery
66.       Most on-farm development costs would be recovered through the credit
program. Recovery of infrastructure investment, and operation and maintenance
costs is regulated through the Federal Water Law of 1972 and the Agricultural
Development Law of 1981. These laws, when complemented with appropriate
administrative measures, allow for different procedures to recover costs in
irrigated, drainage and rainfed districts, but - to determine the amount to be
recovered - both provide for a study of the beneficiaries' capacity to pay.
Similar arrangements would be required to achieve cost recovery in the State.
The Government has stated their commitment to recover operation and maintenance
costs in full and as much as feasible of the investment costs. The mechanism
and instruments for such recovery under the project are being reviewed within
the Government. The Government further confirmed that they would inform the
Bank in a timely manner of the pertinent arrangements for establishing and
putting into effect promptly thereafter a cost recovery mechanism. Therefore,



- 22 -
during negotiations, the Government agreed to take all necessary measures to
recover infrastructure operation and maintenance costs upon completion of
infrastructure in each subproject area and, to the extent possible, the
investment costs of such infrastructure (Section 3.07 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Consulting Services
67.       The limited development of Chiapas, the high potential for agricul-
tural production, and the existence of some delicate environmental and socio-
logical problems, generate an urgent need to acquire data and consolidate
knowledge to steer the State's future development. To meet these critical
needs, the proposed project includes some 180 man-months of local and foreign
consultants to provide expertise for carrying out programs which would (i)
address the identified environmental and sociological constraints in the State;
(ii) help develop essential soil conservation programs to sustain agricultural
development and production in the humid tropics, and related assistance
programs for rural communities; and (iii) strengthen the technical services
required for carrying out the specific studies under the proposed project
(para. 53(v)). During negotiations, it was agreed that SARH would employ
consultants with qualifications and terms of employment satisfactory to the
Bank (Schedule 2, Section II of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Special Studies
68.       The project is designed to support a series of specific studies to
determine future agricultural development requirements in the State of Chiapas
(para. 53(v)) and which will be executed in the course of SARH's normal
operations in the State. These studies would cover the following areas: (a)
pre-investment studies (including basic and feasibility) and soil studies and
surveys; (b) socioeconomic and environmental reviews on a continuing basis in
collaboration with the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE) and
COPLADE; (c) marketing study to determine marketing and storage requirements in
the State at full development of the agricultural activities under the Chiapas
Plan, including those under the proposed project. During negotiations it was
agreed that SARH would prepare and submit to the Bank by July 31, 1988, the
study to determine the marketing and storage requirement in the State, and
review on a periodic basis the socioeconomic and environmental impact of the
activities proposed under the project (Section 3.06 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting:
69.       Successful execution of the proposed project would hinge on SARH's
ability to pull together the administrative efforts of various agencies and
offices within the project area. To accomplish this task, SARH would have to
monitor, in a timely manner, the contribution of each project implementing
agency. SARH would maintain a multi-disciplinary group to monitor and evaluate
prcject execution, beneficiary acceptance and response to the investments,
changes in land use and production -vstems and to environmental and socio-
logical adjustments. The monitoring and evaluation group will report to SARH
and keep COPLADE informed of the results of such monitoring and evaluation
activites. SA-RH would also furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports on the
monitoring and evaluation of the project.



- 23 -
Procurement
70.       Major civil works (principal roads, dikes and drains) estimated to
cost about USS35 million, would be packaged in contracts of not less than US$2
million, and procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines for procurement. Other small civil works (buildings,
roads, soil conservation structures, and drains) would normally be packaged in
contracts of more than US$200,000 and be procured in accordance with Local
Competitive Biuding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works are
estimated to cost about US$45 million and would be scattered in time and
place. Minor civil works not suitable for packaging in contracts larger than
US$50,000, estimated to cost an aggregate of not more than US$6 million, would
be purchased according to Government/SARH procedures for force account or
direct contract acceptable to the Bank. For any civil works contracts expected
to exceed US$1 million, the Bank's prior approval would be required before
invitations to bid are issued and contracts awarded (Schedule 2 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
7i.       Equipment for operation and maintenance, estimated to cost about US$6
million, would be procured under ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Vehicles, equipment, spare parts and materials for administrative
services, operation and production services and training, expected to cost
about US$10 million, would as far as practical be packaged in contract amounts
not less than US$150,000; each would be procured according to LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Equipment, goods and material contracts costing less
than US$150,000 would be procured according to Government/SARH procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and would not exceed in the aggregate US$4 million.
Qualified domestic manufacturers for the supply of equipment, goods and
materials, would receive a preference of 15% or the import duty, whichever is
lower. For all contracts for equipment, goods and materials expected to exceed
US$250,000, the Bank's prior approval would be required before invitations to
bid are issued and contracts awarded. Consultants for technical services would
be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines (Schedule 2 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
72.       Local procurement procedures used in Mexico were reviewed in detail
and were found to be generally satisfactory. During negotiatiors, agreement
was reached with the Government that certain procedures now followed would be
modified in order to agree more closely with the Bank's procurement guidelines
and policies. In particular, the time for prequalification of contractors and
for bid advertisement and preparation will be increased to permit more bidding
opportunities and bid preparation.
Disbursements and Special Account
73.       The loan is expected to be disbursed over seven and one-half years,
in accordance with the profile for agricultural projects in Mexico. Based on
this profile, the closing date for the loan would be March 31, 1993. The Bank
would disburse against: (i) 70% of total expenditures for civil works; (ii)
100% of the total costs of consulting services required for production support
services, training, and studies; (iii) 90% of local and 100% of foreign
exchange expenditures for equipment, materials, spare parts and vehicles; and,



- 24 -
(iv) salaries for incremental extension and research staff, on a declining
basis, as follows: 100% until June 30, 1987, 50% until June 30, 1989 and 25%
thereafter (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). To help speed up loan
disbursements, NAFINSA, the Borrower, would set up a Special Account which
would be operated in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Satisfactory auditing arrangements for the Special Account were agreed during
negotiations (Sections 4.01 of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements).
Auditing
74.       Appropriate auditing arrangements were agreed during negotiations for
project accounts maintained by SARH adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures of the project (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement and 4.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
75.       The proposed project is a cornerstone of the Government's regional
development strategy for improving social and economic conditions in depressed
areas of the country and complements other economic and social investments
under the Chiapas Development Plan. As part of the first phase of this Plan,
the project would address poverty problems and help expand agricultural
production. At full development, yearly incremental production of the
principal products--mainly maize, rice, soybeans, and fruits--would amount to
about US$45 million in 1983 prices, which the country would earn or save in
foreign exchange. Directly benefiting some 32,000 farm families, the project
would provide jobs to about 15,000 farm labor, and help stem migration from the
project area to Mexico's already over-populated cities. Increased employment
opportunities on the beneficiary farms would help improve income distribution,
as the average farm earnings are expected to rise from about US$1,900 to
US$4,800 per family at full project development.
76.       Improvements in the flood control and drainage infrastructure, as
well as the service roads, would also benefit the urban population by reducing
spoilage of goods and damage to property and by improving communications with
the project area. In addition, the project would strengthen SARH's institu-
tional capacity in five rainfed districts, including the delivery system for
extension, research, credit, soil conservation and environmental protection,
and provide the knowledge and experience required to develop similar areas in
Chiapas.
77.       The overall economic rate of return of the proposed investments has
been estimated at about 19% on the basis of measurable benefits from crop and
livestock production over the next 20 years. Other benefits, such as those
discussed above (paras. 75 and 76) have not been quantified in the economic
evaluation. The prices of traded commodities were taken from 1983 Bank projec-
tions, adjusted for handling, processing and transport; for other products,
prevailing farm-gate prices were used. Because of the high underemployment and
unemployment in Chiapas, family and unskilled labor were valued at 80% and 70%,
respectively, of the going market wage for unskilled labor.



- 25 -
78.       The sensitivity of the project's economic return to changes in costs
and benefits has also been tested. Benefits, for instance, could decrease by
36% and the economic rate of return would still remain at above 12% - the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Mexico. Prices would have to drop by
about 19% and yields by 20X to lower the economic rate of return to about 12%.
A switching value test of delays in reaching full agricultural development
showed that benefits from the project could be postponed by three to four years
before the economic rate of return drops to 12%.
Project Risks
79.       The proposed project will be executed within the institutional
framework set up for the implementation of the Chiapas Development Plan (para.
36). Despite the noted commitment of the Government, the execution of the
activities under the Plan would entail a certain degree of risk with
implications for the availability of adequate and timely counterpart funding.
These risks would be, however, considerably lower than those which would exist
if no attempts were made to control, in a planned fashion, the ongoing uneven
development of the State. Furthermore, the Government has confirmed its
commitment to strengthen the institutional and budgetary capabilities of the
various agencies involved (para. 40).
80.       Other risks are the possible reluctance of intended beneficiaries to
adopt modern yield increasing technologies and, in certain areas, to switch
from extensive livestock to intensive crop production. The project's design
would help reduce each of the above risks to acceptable levels. The project
implementing agencies would strengthen the extension, research and promotional
services in the project area. In addition, the major target groups under the
project - 'ejidos" and small farmers - are likely to respond positively to
incentives under the project, especially after drainage and river control
infrastructure, land transport, marketing and storage facilities are improved.
81.       Finally, given the prc,oect design and relatively small size with
respect to the whole Chiapas Development Program, and, in case of counterpart
funding restrictions, the Government would have flexibility to reassign limited
budgetary resources and continue with implementation of the priority project
activities.
Environmental and Sociological Impact
82.       In accordance with current legislation, SARH and SEDUE have already
initiated stueies evaluating environmental problems in the project area. The
proposed project, and in particular its drainage system, has been designed to
protect the environment by: (a) controlling the silting of permanent wetlands
and lagoons; (b) controlling the run-off and use of water contaminated with
fertilizers and chemicals; and (c) maintaining the depth and flow of water in
the drains to control mosquitos and water-spawned insects. To enhance the
project's environmental impact, SARH would, with assistance from SEDUE and
COPLADE, design and set up a monitoring system, including the establishment of
stations for periodic water analysis throughout the project area. Research



- 26 -
would also be conducted to determine fertilizer and chemical application rates
and methods compatible with obtaining optimum yields and protecting the
environment from chemical contamination. The extension services would advise
farmers on the safe and proper application of fertilizers and chemicals.
83.       According to sociological surveys, "ejidos  and smallholders -- the
project's main target groups -- are most likely to take advantage of drainage
and flood control by intensifying crop and livestock production and converting
grazing land to produce crops. The expected response of project beneficiaries
would help reduce the concentration of livestock and crop production on a few
large holdings, create temporary employment during construction, generate some
15,000 permanent jobs, as well as part-time work opportunities in weed control
and harvesting. Thus, the project would help address some of the social
problems in the rural areas of Chiapas and stem migration of rural labor to the
generally over-crowded urban areas of Mexico.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, and the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 29, 1985



-27-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
* O *L L_=
ZAILI  3                     Wacls
MEXICO                - SOCIAL INDICIATOR DATA INST
1OB                     (MOlT 53013W R8TIAN^T) LW
RUCENT          NIBBLE lNOS            HUD
ino&!      l970Lk  umnnfr         LT. auuc  & an               uan
Mu (T0634 SQ. 0)
TOtA                               1972.3     1972.5   1972.3 
ICULTURAL                           963.2      976.4    979.5
CW N  CAPT  (U)                        360.0      730.0   2270.0            2106.6                   2343.3
m  mnsam mm mmr
KTILCRANS OF OIL KQUIVALEKN)        539.0      773.0   1340.0             99.3                     1122.8
Pr0ULATI0N NID-TuAR (T0SA0S8)    37073.0    51176.0  73122.0
138AM POPULATION (I OP TOTAL)        50.6       59.0      68.0             66.5                     46.8
POPULATION PROJCTIONS
POPULATION IN TUR 2000 (HILL)                          109.4
STATIONMRT POPULATION (HILL)                           198.:
MPPATION NONPNION                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PEtR SQ. M.                        18.6       25.9      36.1              35.7                    62.9
ER SQ. Xl. ACRI. LAND              37.7       52.4      72.6             92.4                    156.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 nS                           45.6       46.5      44.3              39.9                     31.4
15-64 IRS                          51.0       50.0      52.2             56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABOVE                        3.4        3.5       3.4               4.1                     7.1
POPUIATION GROT RATE (C)
TOTAL                               3.0        3.2       3.0               2.6                      1.6
tIURW                               6.8        4.7       4.2               3.6                     3.7
CIIDC BltlH RATE (PERI TNOUS)        45.4       43.4      33.9              31.3                    23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THO)           12.2        9.7       7.1              8.1                      8.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3        3.2       2.2               2.0                     1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THDS)             *-       25.1   1145.0 /C
USERS (I2 OP HAeEo WUEN)             *-         *-      39.0 kr          40.3
FM  A-  NITION
INDEXOF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       97.0       100.0    104.0             114.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CE OF ItEDIRIETS)        117.0      112.0    121.0              110.6                    128.6
PEINS (CANS PER DAY)               69.0       66.0      74.0             67.3                     89.7
OF 111CR ANM  AND KLSE           29.0       27.0      26.0 /d           34.1                     34.5
CIILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          10.3        6.5       4.0              5.7                      3.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT DI9TN (YES)          57.0       61.3      65.4             64.7                     67.4
INFANT ICT. RATE (PeR TAU)          91.1        73.6     52.9              60.6                     54.2
ACCSS TO SAFE WATER (POP)
TOTAL                              23.5       49.0 /a  58.0 /.            65.4
URBAN                                ..       6.5 /.  61.4 /             78.1
RURAL                                ..       21.0 77   Sl.0 7r           46.2
ACCESS TO EXCEETA DISPOSAL
(E OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..       37.0 1.  38.0 /a            52.9
URBAN                                ..       6C.o7*  sO.i T             67.0
RURAL                                ..        *.0     13.0 W7            24.5
POPULATION PEA PHYSICIAN           1830.0     l510.0       *-            1917.7                   1065.8
POP. PE NURSINC PERSON             3650.0     1390.0        .             815.8                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             590.0      970.0        ..             367.2                    326.3
URBAN                             570.0 If  1170.0        ..             411.5                   201.5
RURAL                                ..     1370.0        ..            2636.3
ADWISSIONS PER HOSPITAL DEC           ..          ..       ..              27.3                     20.0
AVERAGE SIZE Of HOUSSEOLD
TOTAL                               5.4        5.7
URBAN                               5.7        5.7
AURAL                               5.2        5.8
AVEAE  NO. OF PRSONS/ROU
TOTAL                               2.9        2.5
LURAN                              2.6         2.2
RORAL                               3.4        3.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF DELLINGS)
TOTAL                                         58.96.9
URBAN                                ..       60.7
RURAL                                ..       27.8



- 28-                                                   ANNEX I
T ACL% 1                                         Page  2  of  5
M"E                       SOCIA- ICL INDICt0         (WE WlTED VERA     f g*
NDIT                      (MOST RICREs UTZMSAT) /b
RECENT           NXDDLC INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
it 6db- "   1"         DASE d        ULA. AS- W EIC & CAR          EUIOPI
ED11AT011
ADJU9SID UIROLLKURN RATIOS
FRZKARY?   TOTAL                    SO.O        104.0    121.0               105.4                     101.1
KALE                      82.0       106.0    122.0               106.3                     105.5
PYIALZ                    77.0       102.0    120.0               104.5                      96.7
IECONDAZYs TOTAL                     11-0        22.0      51.0               43.2                      59.1
MALE                      14.0        26.0      54.0               42.3                      68.9
lHAAL2                     5.0        17.0      49.0               44.5                      50.6
VOCATIONAL tS OP SECONDARY)            23.6        26.7      11.6               3366                      21.6
PUflL-TRACIIU RATIO
PRDIARY                              44.0        46.0      37.0               30.1                      25.1
SEONDARP                             13.0        14.0      10.0               16.6                      20.5
ADULT LITELACY RATS (X)                65.4        74.2      02.7               79.3                      75.6
PASENCER CAU/TSROUSAND POP             12.9        24.1      61.3               46.0                      54.7
RADIO RECCIVERS/TSOUSAND POP           89.0       273.7    295.4               225.6                     164.9
TV SICEIVEKS/TKOUSAND POP              17.5        58.5    106.1               107.2                     123.8
NUVIPAPER ("DAILY CEHEA"L
INTERUST") CIRCULATIO0
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              73.3          *.      64.5               63.5                      96.3
CINERA ANNUAL ATTENDAMCEICAIITA         9.S         4.9       4.4                2.a                       2.9
LA M
TOrAL JOAR  ORC  (T5HOUS)          11191.0    14722.0  21398.0
FnILEz (PREENT)                      15.2        17.4      20.0               23.2                      34.5
AGRICTURE (PZRCZNT)                  55.1        45.2      35.6               31.5                      40.7
NDUSTRY (PERCET)                     19.5        22.9      25.3               23.9                      23.3
AXRTCIPATION RATE (PRCNT)
TOTAL                                30.2        28.8      29.3               32.2                      42.9
MALZ                                 51.1        47.4      46.7               49.3                      54.7
FEMALE                                9.2        10.1      11.7               15.2                      31.0
ECONMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         L.7       1.6                1.4                       0.9
IN=  DISIBDTIO
PERcENT OP PVATE INCQIE
tEIVED aY
miElm  s5 OF HOV3ESOLDS                ....
RICEST 20K oF MUSEmS                 61.1 A      60.7      57.7  d
LOIRE? 202 or HOUtJEED                3.4 .      3.3        2.97.
LOVES 402 OF POUZEROLDS               9.0        9.9        9.9
PU SR at
hSTDIAMTD ABUOLUS  POVERTY INCOK9
LEL COSS PE  CAPITA)
UAm                                   ..           *.       .-               211.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..              1U4.0
ESTIKATED RELATIVE POURT! INCM
LEVEL (US$ PR CAPITA)
1337                                  4..         ..    471.0 /c            322..
AL                                     ..         ..    471.0                372..
ESTDIATED POP. BELOV AIOUT
POVETY INCOME LEVEL (I)
RURAL                                  ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOr APPLICANLt
la  The sup averages for each Indlector are populatlotn-welhted erittsctic _m*e. Coverage of countries agon  the
Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not unifors.
fb   Uales otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" betwen 196i and
1971; and data for Most Recent Estimate- betweon 1960 and 1982.
/c  1979; /d 1977; Ie Served from water eupply aW   sewage; /f 1962; LA 1976; lh 1963.
JUNE. 1984



-29-                                                         AM= I
Sb bee a-   Em                  tesMIM   aSa. mm  -                                                 Paeg  3 of 5
lb a-i mahatla am - ukls%te   is  jt lebesalb   b   .   -9   ageopetagolir
de9.b Siha of 5nlf. leIWe. Smm. OM obIaatIS  a-1Ut5 sfe dtllose..  ba-s. = "M..
~ Noe dm NM CMM Udi. 'te% ten61 ausauulp of it OEMii tUn 1bOsh esItat ov, OA1 amiiiltleao am.. bee...59 eSMfw% l.99sll9bel
aietmtse) 6. "lbo  malseM  me ons. lb aem -tmfw Thlens  'sEabedm aftt  mella i e        em L.0 onelbes     m o t    ml,a   uelte" aele Sb emit.. ee
-    ejto 9.  b   aior.tr   baeu- qmtSe                       b  ah.9ed b-  bstt ps .4 - himgg as e    brsette.dm  mt                       I.0
jjgp  9.Sl  .i  519. 4it5%19.                                                                     -.nillael  .ha.Vol"   atssqstt, legal.m
mee% ded "40.19 4110; ifti-9el 1.1
am s.c .95115 ".li9.ts .. 9t.uYeu a-sa  is .                   WM .et etto iebt1.a  4o :I:f :m p:;et : M"lo        ba if sadI
~-nk. ma" a WrkdS" agm Cso : loo"It         f-ftalloatimwam. gmste..-  lUsi Sat emoalliu   b         IFtee  aed
a-maim .adII  d m iej                                                     IVdhaa. tW-e  bl  tbhlieie  oleddete. bO.s.I. el eel5tt1m.5 pssmea9.u, .ambfdl
*9*  910, ma  WI des..                                        hr t~~~~~~~~~~dL   459 a- Iinto". SW"  bootha. usstdt Iftleulpstl  meedie
Andell swermwomeopeade   o~Ass             se  - a-mm  onteud  bualI sa....ha  he.  * ivelse.laa  byel  mag
5337 i 459.1157 51Mb7%    m.~l ds   l ftd-emistet                            a-ia-m  Nam- 59.  Amt. *   "bskeliei    '  gPIh,eiuts    i hnmki 5  mles
ad pn%rt 4     lebitegrm of 11-=l1a a-  -,at.-  ml..                     pmacmm. mu... .tjtts ofe. mteem pselo, led9.lsiaee
lat. all lint dote.                                                                                        - Tase mebo sq aftlsle.as  .- dlsts.iee
I 1.~"es  mEiLjmu-  Anbi             JllI sq      to" leim Ina                      Le1            ~2:?~t  uie. Eesu
at                      esse-  w sep19   mmaatshtt sq date                   a-d 19.1 eats U.S.. a bestow 9. 5.ut Sw  5#r.  ml No toseleat so
me0  eeuteul IWc. i5lD* am  330 date                                             t bD haibld 99. .slattusted    .e
rf-O -     SWI10 ide.. sea abl - m   uslt 111 tong ULIia                 dllfae. uueas.alooLp. keilla-       I-f e9.a-mi-eamati .Ia.etemeuaau
wa-s. ISejelite ues-.9  gm enmttpg rate. muuvwat less                          emeu,is P.M...
el9  f.    9..1.ma Ia-i  lil OWeesm,r elgaehtlu at 11.1                        lIdu" ta0    thM M   UsiOS,l  hyiiteO9.           VOs    - MitSL-
posem. so p9mG.9. 9. 5atStUtr ft.e she be. omet.191                            ei 9..1 M . sib.. a-d 'assi deti59.o ,meagoely.u
moe bll  to lessI Lisp essdtt- ma 1ms. 1.sL ed leel ts-I
pla-Be  uesfurn.. les Gomm, so lb. a-Swg ed, a-    Mu sa. ate
OFmha-. inltlJspm  t.l fvlktlr t'aa- lSr piujo.es varpie.                       Mlm
flj~~ui~ - te SW le A - ad e.Nsu.ttts meotultI
tate Isa  "alemltaa-   masa   at ise    ~le em ..  s                             Jtlmi7 .b"I-ee  "isgtiSel mmt-l.tusld. AMOCOe saul loll
rusbel.l"ia-E. 1. mm. a 9mLela,0  lbA ba  ftee. to moseded                 i-Mu  9.C ~J ad to. d159.ssat la-st..  pr9.sup ademalsea SWt
.e    l  ulbbt  tie.. Sbt 4W NUs0tese I. ale. mmd . a- isa               da-ewlte. KM1 9.19.19. 5d5.ml  .eldm  am my m .r lt payment
.u st i   n  is slsas -Go   ulallm aest89     "aboutllsi  isa             sloe.  em ile.l   mat. m or ibe.t too aEtstatmedital me.
mbo  .9 am        psjei  t%e9.es.sttle  W1 oft papasleclti teeq..symiIch.51.  l..dem . -pos..edm abm  os1tat.
NOe. a- Ohb  me. sq beLle. of EitlgtUy Fat..me u.alome.lm I                      ...-...              I.e..M.16   fs,et        sq eaupumd i.tmu  leCSatttml
W as b  fteSba, 9. apuiesIm  Isa-h -  BKN emla-iloBoom 3u.s * m"I..tie. - iombe ca.Ciltn Ismifitla- lot
I..  -. til  lba-  eebt -loeL 'taLs. he.  Wae adset.I..   tb                .se...It Wa-b      toIid.e  fNt a-padoesaya 
.tet s a pa-lati.. le Sb, pats ft. mNm dat as stta sq lb.                Vseuole!le.s HU10 " cL"         sq...Bs..) - ssttm  smtt.tloe
-M1b   ltl*""u i...leti. I. Sb papolsiise,.  ch. mb or f. ais-.essts4lliil  f 55  tse   "IA.  mmise
lb   Mmytl. Mab  .erlitay r.ertle ar ts,lsrn     let  ...v 1wo                ISisifoisSilTetl  e. bas  a-at.K of esa ery l9.lLisSI.s
tin dae. aslasm.. et ia..  Ie  .ss11 5a.uqs.le15..
146.llA.  .d 115 late.    1Li-Is titls.rm..l a                              set.e Ideals.at     lsi 41.114  stda   51
MASeltl   113. -9to. medo19.9 des.d                                              at..-sa-             S qu    ;4 1  Nold IS ..Ymas. bue.,m
-    -des 11-t W".) at. sq la4-I 0  .elll   .41.
r-  apodefa   -~ 1    bn        el  s,taa
amwlIdd                                          mm. a1.Jn-aI de.p.Lub1  e emae pSsCal"m  e.go a-theas soIlearded       ateMg.
~~ -s~~~ma    em.a It- deulee  S m  silla but No-                            GM  WMue Am a  I. psat ha .utss smyI  t me. a- 9a. .95555.
See  pmt-il   e. uuW  a ItU lb ef                                          samassem  ss,a d-eeelti  u                   mSb sse.
19-f.                               d                                             phIsespwb Oediste.litof       smsWi eawrl"r.    ItW-" luns..
9. 9.   * bela- em a-pa-  .ett-  ta-lw ph14L lor1                         -sare   d     er,WsM.                - mTV seds me Sb    ofefsq
ate.        - Om .It               magsmp-    N              sfe(                                         afmjmau              IT  dtoo   sia-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULsfe ad mIsted                                            esto he .lte.       tGP=s "           t     u    
bem ass~~~~~1M-1.                                          a
psmtieiq my ta-sq  m.oeeseIe.9..II misted em. haSed,Art-4 .1-   a
passUtle,at .49ei ome. lefletlInis stia-rd ca-t"le a- m-
- ..    ... me..           5~ofe-.sehtel 9.. Iwo a-  21112 date.
Ia-a   s-eNdr, in             t. gigei. it- esie.w              let.              ois tpreat       a-s..ea. & Termi isb  P.--.W 95 131 te.4 min  F-
msatatle.ad sq e )        MOt  - ahI  -a metas ee.uma. (u.e.              J         MtIAa-e:t- Lae ress. I. el1ise. .-Mm"sil. O-o.als.lq mad
mttae ma  sem  a-~).  ~9.sa issa-I of at .inI   u, 4                           utyleiiIIii. d gm a-s.e eutmedo at mo sts lo. Sutml low. ism
bead s usst-t smm s.smr pu. a-aut i1149. 910.  - 115       ted  in  sees.
odte   a-men gm atm.. k  m=!gm isda:     sdtdst ce.a. doodo.                ulIbe 19. dff.a  esmaut sq isa pseeatlos. a-d Imy tie. il. a
la-ue. Wmat . Sm. ;=.e.:m. a- ose   .detslbaia. a1aPWI-                        59.e.s la-ts. a-, I-  "e.ilt mu.
'Mat "wo  RIaded W OVA bme     Od.issaatltdi MOD     t CM  1I - ftells d1 fms.ssls lm  ., It ad St mda me,.
m.t.t.  ma OSIS hate rld.tme o-mutierme    ua-ut.e-. we -lob".                                           alse.. 9wd lIS.").
a- ma m. dtsstaboll,at sq Imltats-, mad usagml to pe.s.t lo med
at  a-SUIaI  ItlS. tae f maC nag i0sis. 
a5es m la hMa%   ofl   a- sqn at-m"I hutE a-i  e sad-                                           sue e,s.7 a-Effms  m ...1aleacy tusLe. VAt
eqasA  991  at 9  -mm59  99. 19.1rld. SVSSd hr WAD1  19. cm9tl  . 2a.0mss.d sit  co-1,00.1ls a-tie.,
VW"d bIdV"aESIah.191m   W  dat..                                            5s~sah...!lst  m.mfilpIe,et.?  ~. a   ~e
9 -     JML- gsa-i. sagapl 51 tow                                     S m        vg91is1. Edm  105  bM   ..stale
bela-d a- a-ed.i         ae a    9    w byt t19.i.. ISI0 a-  1917                             Wml-tp aslinus  PIi-pleuoodeal"d in-I5.d es.e    -t
dets.                                                                               911
-p Seeme 1- mase. 9  i-   a 1  bS5  ee"I 99   aimmam                                                                                        -
mie   eSdtled                      IWOE ih.tle.11 a-e lilt dat.           poftedo2le tod    1 lb. admu. 0e   19. leal  1. 5.1sa Ite c. -b  e
la-I .1il eajmao ese.F  Maker met eq 11.19. . em -s
p59.   a- pet i  Ia    nutb Ism5 Iwo1 ed Iloti jet..
bPfe9~r(e.r~~i - bf.teL  .i~. ma teCs -4                                                                          "L& a"Mfq2
l-., awayl (jleded   immada a-ldee. a-ate.,  da-lseem INC b-tIs                                                        Assi &o.Iet   aIuj  159Pcet-mat
"Sme. Wdeeu   Mt  cha tie. pieaeatatl lbesool. ep -Ioe s. d                                                              ia- (WI
Sa-Amp e.l1ts do saeea-p.e it asIf smsen-at    plepstses. 1.s
Calls dma 5 mu19 reeleted - es  Ised am- m   gets J009K 5
Iea- a beass Mr7 1. smaIjs at biqlm e tuwnma-SI sa.. or ti
has. 9. ta-  i    seml.em a-id Lesip tamto Sb  -ati.,u
mm o sq 19.8 *u j me a- to w. * Olwopis.i.. pate sq
Lin du, DeMldns issh9.lbift.l a-uw a-o.
-       9.SI  Wss tA9 98  n,d "DCA11h.MU  lissom p eadet, -.m- at.
mesesesem   ad ha, les.a.  euWestA-.9 tems. W teme   -sld
lb  etseteemag or    il.53,  -aisam  t em1d  mes
"mum mtfthw iebs.  ihae l   -suilpeeem



mm  us setmm                                                                                            a
100 -CO    Wg                       VA Ml
KMI                                          PoutS                               lum                                            tm
km      n        IM       1 l111        111  1911    16       19f      km              i-n  11     am-u   it-m                       Ion      Ig       am       Iva
anink~~~ ~ ~ ~                                 _.M _, _1 _1M                      . .           _ILL__I_                                                 ___                         _        _
hit.I      lu1
sa_ m,                                           mas a1 mm, w arns
w                                                     11.2   12.1   aiLS   M1.1 s i WL IN  .1      1 am 1.i1 a     as QII    Li                         LU       LaE             aT       "km      5l.n    19a.iL
If w uMKU VI                                 -.31    -Ml        LU       1.      -LIS   -Ill    -01   -1.0    -.12                       .        . .        .      n              -0.L   Ia         -L.U    *La
*                                            91.51   1132   1II   IDI    11.N    1.11   19.1    1LIR   MLIP                           1.19    kW        1.5      L"              "Lk   1M"    to,    1 09
NUll 116  ffIN                               9.3    1L324    21.1    3L.11    laW       ILK       IL?       9.6L    3Lii                   I LM        -Ln       ioe                .9L    16.6      I.M    1.1..6
[MIR l .L Irv                                 IS    6.28    a.n    21.61    21 ,31,1 2. 1                  5.9m     ItS                2.4"   11.3      I."      O."               Lb      ELM      19.32    IL
K         IS                                 -L4I    -LK       -233   -1.16       9.5    19.11    L.        ILk       1                  . .   .                                   -LUa     *n         I        . 111
mom.                                         11.1   11.11   IlL.   I.s   167.31  In2."   10L.6    513               11U                i.l      a6       1.9      LII              a3 .21 Y.          ."L  1f.iJ
DRM                                          3X3  a 162        11.1     1.S    62.19   31.-1     3211 1     ., W3    .I9             LH       LII    -Lis       LI               2204    2.66    39.39    N.99
NNsM     miss                                161      11.6    4L41   cii           .1n   e.n       a 1n     as.     | L W  Ms  L I1.6    .lI                      L         .         " ILl  L 211   24.1n   02.21
mu 6C3-I                                     -1.91    -L.I    4.3    -.91.1   -11.5        .     -11.18   -11.11    -4.11             11.      I 1   11          LU               -1.11    -L.I    4.11    -2n
Sn  Ml. 3915                                  17.2    26.4    21.21    Lf        V31 31.5121.5 312, 3 1     21,12    III?              LI4    909    -4.45    aS."                 16.2     29li    01411    19.91
usam mms                                                                                                                                                                                         As w w
Siatto                                       11.16    125    15.2    11.21    16.31   66113    11.29    11.60    36                     2.29    LU0      2.26      ja              81129     LO       3.3      2.41
S.n sum                                      fTIu  Is   W.49  7.1l  ft.3   N.M   IL?  17.61  IaN                                       LIe0  LA.O   LN   1LU                       222   3.19  21.91   T."
SWISS                                        14.46    FIX   1021.    CLII  11101  18W. 16 1 2 Il           1119.1   14                  LII    S.0       L.       LO               33.    21.21    3.2'    I2.21
- IN - a a-    *m mm rmm, W mlal
_  . .___,_,, .............._,._
_311. VIt,                                               fill    2130   213    21l9    121            Igo   I          12
mn^Iama                                        ma   Ml   ION  ao'   ist  sw    ai0                             a mm   I"
015_131  _sw                                   =|      322      12      063 1      6 l12    1911   263      11       l1
E131, VOIAL 1F.L16                              Ull?     .719    ZINO921    191 12329    VLa         mu0    0321   3so
FMalLuulASa                                    22       iii    mu2    It?        HOTf  161         lmm      13174   21111
HWIKIN_S  II                                  1I       2611     262n     SO       91       3281     #2       111l 9  1012
_M    cliM  uWs                               IO       2        1 71S    9"        23       11  7S7          711a    lU*l
Fman laims uLw.mmi
W.m  m m1                                    6.13 'N.21   SM    101.5   112 4.21    71T:          51.93   M.11 iI  t
[EU? PolM  1St 2S222 D                                  .6:     IlLS    01.1         n    115.21   5L3      17l    1212
ff30      m F  I`66.1                                 94.11       101.  4.2?    17.29   lbaaI    06n    ii 22   66.t
W  SLII                                      19-      11.6   IRA13     121,7   215.5   42.6 r    .11.31     -
ranK mui  u-nUwl                             12.5    ILE    2191    26.1 37 .11l  121,21   119.711 
-smIt UJ 7nm  ils  a iUan
CO       Skm                                  IL"     C.111   MM        16.12      .4i   22. W    2243
Dow  nIawit                                  ritS     19.11   Wil.    011.2    IL.V    2b.21    L2.69
Va        I ONUS                              .AS  7.11 L        .I LU   7.1    -2.11     1.1r     L.k
c9116   Dn6592  t.29    1109                                    9.16    11.92    I.Ul   6C.1        F.M
WICK  IiS                                    -2.19    -1.19    -7.1r  -06.5   -IT."    4.1 n   _-.v
1513M IFP IT       Paz aCMI 1v3 511                                                                                                                                 I
aml                                             2 1    1104       1f       32      IN
31 "-                                                  4.64     1.41   6.12    l12 ia.o
E111341. E    l8S 12.11 _Iii 2_t                                                11202                                                                            11.19
MM1. Al5 nAI MNIME                                     La.2    14.9?   02.111   WA2.S                                                                             7.92
56.1Aram. A"I16.   0N-%   29.6    296.23                                                                                                                         126
tWlh                                            .      Li       GAS      6.      92 L.1L
SL   -                                          . Mm1.41  197,a? 2A6   201                                                                                       17.11
_rnis                                                3S. ran  .LQ 1w LE  K         .nt                                                                           I
Ialn                                                  ILW  .    22.1   2    37.16  116.                                                                          2.72
film                                            .    PLU1 la" 2_ ..2    2211.27                                                                                   7.12.E
alirl                                           .      *.U1  1130   21.22   20.22a7
MMa                                                 u N S                            61o5r flI               5.2                 f Ill it IA  -  SD S                                          I I Kum
twoi    lIu                        092      Ila3                   to"-                          191      lIi                                 393      I
sa w                               Lu~~~~~~~~~~~~~44  6.16           18.12   26.91                        1.3                       2.11     LII                                22.2    I2.6
ISIs,                             2.12~~~~~~~~~~~L  41.11            Z222    21.46                        Li?                      12.1    12.91                               131.11   16.5S
swans                              Li?~~~~~~~~~~~36  LII3              4.5 1.    ,          6.              1 .4                    1.s;   I102                                 a"    ti..
2! 153N fl_  ut 56 1 Oil   _IE   -  liii 131313 rsI r
MU L? 19 1 IXa   fUlUh 11O7 nnM ar fl  11.11
V   IM7                                                 *. rU  Wl. MUN                                                *17M    W7I                        &|1N                               157.1    1
V 1bU  WFr  IIX    U  D!7ler ralll
, r is s mm.
...     lrtal            r If   i  11  11 n I   _il
r. 31. ,uSr Fn a. p sg OuImn, W ns rTscs
-1  7J, -l



- 31 -
NMCE wf smug, aria mimci Aune KIN                                                               ew
loaU    N ILI Alllll,   Elm    pIn      "   *- 
I3 *55UII- U       1 111  NIT    li                                                  r e  l s
mI aain I rwon
1931   Imasn mtEl                         31l   419    2n    21424   VS"    2111    MM13 Sill   =42
swn    assist VIP                         sez    us10   2Ie   seUa    a11    a            [UN    19194   47121
mim   meA                                 -1ii   -3117   -2        99    3Da    1525   I344   1023?    MIT5
Ke  FACT    r                             -619   -149   .4,       -31111 -list   -M       -91*1   -IOW7  -IIsa
11hENji P.3m3                            -239  -132   -e70   4132  -11s4    -M15  -2566   -12W   -1224,
I r iS Dt ICE                            -1246   -074   -n72     -Z144   -4       323    3141    -470   -3211
"IBe  es: mnmu                             ln      "06    1a24    I3I3      109    214      m       540     OW1
r0it N. a o            mile, en            us1     ma    a         1623    18    3DI    nIo   s1n    osa1
el mmns                                  is    4sn 1          u 7rn e3   s1We    sa1e     Imo   92O   21411
waists                                   I&?    4110    4324    Sm        en=     Nit    *m       nto    muI
sll soe                                     -       -     -sI    n -1?      221    I.    1a.    12tO    -sO
eO    W wlsa                               IN     *:7   2i4    iiM    -71it   -&i    -561I   -54    -9116
VWE  31 5at1 15-KEl                       -*I0    -53   -1423    -623    64i5   -flit  .323         360   -11"
to4L131t53                                  43      -        74      10      -        - 
ma:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t a  e                                    oumo
rIC  II. P   1.1. iS
538                                     144.  310.0 SlO.O       1021.t0  339.90   Nt.S
aim  SLTILAIK                            112.4  122.0    m.oi  291.50  2nG.0  o2.10
3166n                                    M."   245.3   990.9.9   05.40  113o.16  224.70
S09915s                                  70.0o  141.00   U.9    209.60  207.Zt  SSI.7t
eIS M  FIN Qa  vasi arss                 379.40 =.40  6194.3  1334.50 11111.31 39.9
NiT i of in
razC J1rT 06511mm    Ae e       11110am  ,.  14aS., 3571.00 42LS.00 51ll4   L751.70                                                                   IrAL nlt
i{llS tF P3301
lifmIt 0 IlC  37r                      214.6        7   386     6766.90 4043.31 4 .31                                                           mgms an  OiSme
11i1n1  a raz  INT                      4n.4   13370 54.73  494.20 3224.90 310-.-0
.iiiC Se    IICE s se  a                soD 1ism"40  715,53  am.s7.10 iU.4  9954.20                                                                    sc tE  . S,I
!l 3  EUWr LsS a                                                                                                                PUIEC 9 a L.T.
P31 MIC lei 95  63I In3.20   L23.2   32.114   3.54   32.91   34.51                                                              Los                         MUs  rier1
lIti                                UN7     4.30
aeMf  lIRN P rstC NZJi flMM OFFS WJ. SaCS                                                                                                                           7409  r1.39
a.    IU      t 4    I.4tRIS            1.6      0.13   11.40   14.40    14.23  123.43                                        O         PRIVATE  54262   36.1
o. MOAK0  min       t f  lUS             -- UNL9         9.93    L70    .-90    L
urs rae.                                                                                                                                                         *325.
IM INS D.. 4626W                      1.23    9.65    4.1     L14    5.231   4.36
roast ti. a. .
s.  in tD     swim MsIw                O7.       7.56    2.23    LU      La      te1
at M  FJ.      KM 619   NIlM  NO LWUN 98860f OLT 135.
...       5 l w0"ZTIII PSIIIJ 05533   1 116 IIIIS..
... Ir MIILM S"IINTl M DA It tnE WorL
I          IF lli2CISM, M, aM  rIITAF a m
-M  2,169



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of February 28, 1985)
Loan                                                              Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower                 Purpose             Cancellations   bursed
58 loans fully disbursed                    3,495.2
1553-5    1978      NAFINSA                 Agriculture               56.0          1.3
1643-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Small-scale Agri.         60.0          4.7
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                92.0         48.3
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Industry                 175.0         31.8
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0         19.9
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Irrigation               160.0        147.9
1881-5    1981      KAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0          1.5
1908      1981      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                23.0          5.6
1913      1981      BANOBRAS                Water Supply             125.0         77.7
1929      1981      BANOBRAS                Railways                 150.0         48.7
1945      1981      NAFINSA                 Rainfed Agriculture    264.6          110.4
1964      1981      BANPESCA                Port Development          10.0          6.6
1990      1981      BANOBRAS                Urban Development II   164.0          119.8
2042      1982      NAFINSA                 Technical Training        90.0          7.7
2043      1982      NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development           175.0        121.6
2100      1982      NAFINSA                 Irrigation. Rehab II    65.0           61.7
2142      1982      NAFINSA                 Capital Goods
Industry              152.3        117.4
2154      1982      NAFINSA                  Pollution Control        60.0         49.4
2191      1983      NAFINSA                 San Fernando Agri.        48.4         41.8
2194      1983      BANOBRAS                Urban Enginering           9.2          6.4
2262      1983      NAFINSA                 Agri. Marketing          115.0         94.5
2281      1983      BANOBRAS                Third Water Supply       100.3         90.3
2325      1983      NAFINSA                 Third Small Medium
Industry              175.0        135.8
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT               Export Development       350.0        296.5
2428      1984      BANOBRAS                Highways                 200.0        168.2
2450 2/   1984      BANPESCA                Ports                     76.3         76.3
2454      1984      NAFINSA                 Agricultural Credit    300.0          139.9
TOTAL                                           6,831.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank             1,342.5
Total now outstanding                            5,488.8
Amount sold                   92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                     0.0
Total now held by Bank 31                        5,488.8
Total undisbursed                                             2,031.7
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/  This loan became effective on March 8, 1985.
'/  Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
rage z oT z
B. Statement of IFC Investmentm (as of February 28, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                      US$ Milllon
Year           Obligor                     Type of Dualness            Loan  Equlty  Total
1958/59  Industrlas Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1               Industril Equipment            0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul              0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1             Twist Drills                   0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                             2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. A1                       Steel                          0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quisica del Rey, S.A. /1         Sodium Sulphate                0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment            -      2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1        Iron Ore Minlng                1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./T        Textiles                      12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                    /2      /2     /2
1973/79  Cemento Verscruz, S.A.           Cement                        15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourlsm                        1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                         12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper               10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                   19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Ce-entos Tolteca, S.A. /3        Cement                       168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                           -      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -            18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Partleleboard                   25.0    -       25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                       Flat Glass                   114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3               mining                       110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                   59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                      Agri-Business                 11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                    Motor Vehicles
and Acceseorles             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility           Industrial Equipment         100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                        Cotton Seed Flour             2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                     16.4    -       16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                      705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment, and Sales
540.4   22.1  562.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                            165.3   26.1  191.4
m            m
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                   150,9    6.5  157.4
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
a     Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.    Timetable for Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: About 22 months
(b) Project Prepared by: SARH
(c) First Bank mission to review project: July 1983
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: February 1984
(e) Negotiations Completed: March 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1985
II.   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a)  SARK would furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1986
and every year thereafter, an execution program of infrastructure
improvement works (para. 59);
(b) SARH would select areas for full development under the project in
accordance with agreed criteria (para. 61);
(c) SARK and SCT would undertake a review of the construction and
maintenance practices regarding rural roads in the State with a
view to further rationalizing rural roads designs, specifications,
construction methods and maintenance practices, and assigning
maintenance responsibilities between the two agencies (para. 63);
(d) Government would ensure the availability of funds for financial
assistance to the project's beneficiaries for on-farm development
and production inputs (para. 65);
(e) SARH would recover operation and maintenance costs and, to the
extent feasible, investment costs, upon completion of
infrastructure works in each subproject area (para. 66); and
(f) The Government, through SARH, would review periodically the
environmental and sociological impact of the project and complete
by July 31, 1988 a study to determine the marketing and storage
requirement in the State (para. 68).



l _                    4B4. ~~~~~~~~93.                                      7                              2
We ~ ~ ~ 4
C. P..Oj~
/~~~~~~ CCh..ulwlrhC :li                                                                                  ..*<     t \  -.    ,
M7~~~~~~~~~~~~~1' \@ LC
Y0I1~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
IotoIapa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tv
T.g,.c jJ                              L                '\                       tc tJ 
Na. P.
a  C  s   '         - -  -               m                                     S      lWoU/.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~"Wo
1  TAPACHULLA    COSTA   -  +   /   - ;  =   "owc                              <      P c B ld w  C  _7
16~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
ch-W. ~ ~ ~ 7
I TAPACHLJLA COSTA                                                                                        El.4..            ..fog 1  
2 HUIXTLAOI4UEYATE                           /                  F 
3 LAGUNAS DE ACAPETAHUA                                    BMW
4 LAS MARGARITAS
. VALLE DE COMITAN
6. StUCHIAPA-SANTA DOMINGO
7 MARGENESOELGRIJALVA
8.SAN MIGUEL It
9 ALTOS (SAN CRISTOBAL DE LASCASAS)             m U"             T...eoCk '
10. JESUS DIEGO
1i. CH4imALAPA-CHICAPA
12 LA FRAILESCA
134 ALTIPLANO DE CHIAPAS
14. TUULJA
15. TE-APA-TACOTA2LPA
. 16. PICHUCALCO D                               B to d/
17. LASMARGARITAS-RIOSTO. DOMINGO      \        Cokoc". 21) o     d
18. SAN vICENTE-CARBONERA  .                    t c 4 #o          d
19. TUZANTAN..ZONAALTA
20. CINTALAPA
. -  -  , .,' :9A ',* -, '                '                                  \,   _92



IBRD 18236
fr  *X~   91'                           o                   MAY 1984
'N CAMPECHE
TABASCOj
t-.                                        I
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
j    ~~~ +   >          j                                    Proposed Chi9DO5 PloHd_jaRA PI an:
Mal        e Bank Financed Project Areas
6     ;   Other Project Areas
- -- -2 -Roads Under Construction
Road Surface:
-        / # + Paved
________  Grovel
\    >   tenewkb              Ot                        t3    State Capitol
a    Selected Cities ond Towns
Rivers
-   State Boundaries
3-                       X                           .'vfb t\>          -*-   International Boundaries
-    V     G   U  A    T   E   M    A    L  A   /   0      20      60      0      U      100
KILOMETFRS |     9          
MILES 6  -4
A-  /             0.t20                               60
"I.cawl d1                                                     UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
-aw0tg d0 1. Fmfnto.
3de mod".
D~JX                                     15'             0 %;                      .~-)       Gulf of
15c                  k                     IMexico
A dDswN-                                                \\)_\  M E X I C O
Id IW. - b%- /hJ
5'                                             *Pacific                                    Ich.  as ,ON DUMA
I C                *r~~~~~~am of n_S VA" S - so
",-tow Fc CIW-Mkm             Ocean                                  rElt1ZE
*'      Ie                                      -                        * GUATEMALA
.. v                      -   '~e       -    -  .HONDRA.
_l e 






