Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13824
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2526-ME)
DECEMBER 28, 1994
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank; authorization.



CtURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency tJnit
Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Currency exchange ratts during Implementation
Year                        MexS/IJSS
1986                             575.4
1987                            1353.7
1988                            2282.0
1989                            2464.0
1990                            2821.0
1991                            2950.0
1992                            3050.0
1993                               3.1
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS ANI) MEASURFS
I meter (m)                        =       3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                   =       0.62 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha)                    =        10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km2)           =       0.38 square miles (mi2) = 100 ha
I metric ton (m ton)               =       2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSAL                      Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ATICOCI I                  Chiapas Coast Integrated 'I'echnical Assistance
(Asesorfa Tecnica Integral de la Costa de Chiapas)
ATP                        Agricultural Technology Project (Loan 3465-ME)
CNA                        National Water Commis.sion
(Comisi6n Nacional de Agua)
CADRI                      Support Centers for Integrated Rural D)evelopment
(Centros de Apoyo al Desarrollo Rural Integral)
CIE'S                      Center for Ecological Research of the Southeast
(Centro de Investigaciones Ecol6gicas del Sureste)
CONAFRUT'                  National Fruit Growing Commission
(Comisi6n Nacional de Productores de Frutas)
COPLADE                    State Development Planning Committee
(Comite Eslalal de Planificaci6n para el Desarrollo)
CI'NI I                    Commission for the National I lydrau!ic Plan
(Comisi6n del Plan Nacional Ilidraulico)
I)l)R                      Rural Development D)istrict
(Distrito de Desarrollo Rural)
D)RD                       DecentralizXation and Regional Development Project
(Proyecto de Descentrali7aci6n y Desarrollo Regional)
GOM                        Government of Mexico
IMTA                       Mexican Institute of Water T'echnology
(Instituto Mexicano de 'recnologla de Aguas)
INIFAP                     National Institute for Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Research
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales, y Agropecuarias)
PACI'0                     Economic Solidarity Pact
PECF                       Economic Growth and Stabilization Pact
(Programa Econ6mico de Crecimiento y Estabili7aci6n)
PRO(''CATI                 Agriculture Training, Extension and Research Program
(Programa de Capacitaci6n, Asistencia 'Itecnica e Investigaci6n)
PROD)ERI'T'I I             Program for Integral Development of the I lumid Tropics
(Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integral para el Tr6pico I lumedo)
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
SARI-I                     Secretariat of Agriculture and I lydraulic Resources
(Secretarfa de Agricultura y Recursos I lidraulicos)
SEDESOI.                   Secretariat of Social Development
(Secretarfa de I)esarrollo Social)
SE'DUEl                     Secretariat of Urban l)evelopment and Elcology
(Secretarfa de Desarrollo UJrbano y EcologIa)



FOR O()FFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:      Project Completion Report on Mexico
Chiapas Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2526-ME)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled Project Completion Report on
Mexico - Chiapas Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2526-ME) prepared by Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project packaged investments in flood control, drainage and access roads with
improvements in extension and research services. The objective was to expand the cultivated area
and productivity of crops on small farms on the coast and in the central valley in Chiapas State.
Production increased in both areas, mostly mangos and bananas on the coast and maize and beans
in the central valley. The gains were attributed to better water control. The technical agriculture
component was less successful: the extension service was dismantled during the project period, in an
attempt, until now of limited success, to decentralize and privatize these activities. The PCR does
not clarify whether the production increases occurred mostly on the small farms and ejidos targeted
at appraisal, or on larger commercial farms.
The project outcome is considered satisfactory. However, maintenance of the water
control and road works has been inadequate, and their sustainability is uncertain. The desired level
of coordination between the central and state governments was not achieved, and other institutional
progress was disappointing. The PCR is adequate, though it should have identified the actual
beneficiaries.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEXICO                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLEI1ON REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface  . ......................................................... i
Evaluation Summary.                                                                   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity.                                                           1
2. Background.                                                                 1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                         4
4. Project Design and Organization.                                            5
5. Project Implementation.                                                     8
6. Project Results .10
7. Project Sustainability .12
8. Bank Performance .13
9. Borrower Performance .13
10. Project Relationship .14
11. Project Documentation and Data .14
12. Lessons Learned .15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .17
PART m1: SUMMNARY OF STATISTICAL INFORMATION .25
Table 1. Related Bank Loans .26
Table 2. Loan Data .27
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements .29
Table 4. Project Costs and Financing .30
Table 5. Project Implementation Targets .31
Table 6. Project Benefits .33
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants .40
Table 8. Use of Staff Resources .43
EBRD MAP: 18236
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,
(LOAN 2526-MIE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project (Loan 2526-ME) in the amount of US$90.0 million equivalent, which
was approved on April 30, 1985. The Guarantee and Loan Agreements were signed on July
16, 1985. A total of $32.0 million were canceled from the loan amount in June 1988
(US$22.0 million) and August 1988 (US$10.0 million). The loan was closed, fully
disbursed, on December 31, 1993, nine months behind schedule.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Natural Resources Management and Rural
Poverty Operations Division (LA2NR) of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR has been based on the findings of a October 1993 mission to
Mexico by Bank Staff, interviews with government officials and other Bank staff, and the
review, inter alia, of the project Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the President's Report, the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and Borrower reports.






ii
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2526-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The Mexican Chiapas Agricultural Development Project (together with the parallel
Chiapas Rural Roads Project-Loan 2525-ME) constituted the first phase of the Bank's support
for the Chiapas Development Plan. The Chiapas Development Plan was designed to address
the constraints to the development of the state--a depressed social environment, underutilized
agricultural resources and lack of adequate communications --through the integration of a
series of simultaneous economic and social development programs. Both projects were
approved in April 30, 1985. The Bank's agricultural sector goals were to help increase
agricultural productivity in land under crops, particularly of small farmers, complement
infrastructure investment for support services, and promote employment-generating
investments in the rural area (see para 3. 1). The need to further these goals was acute in
Chiapas, one of the least developed states in the country. The inflow of Guatemalan
refugees to the region in the early 1980s had heightened social unrest, mainly in the
indigenous areas on the central plateau (see para 2.2). Signed on July 16, 1985, the Loan
became effective on April 4, 1986.
2.    The Agricultural Development Project was designed to assist the Government of
Mexico (GOM) achieve its objectives of increasing: (a) the area available for rainfed crop
production and intensification of crop and livestock production; (b) agricultural production
and productivity; and (c) rural employment and family income. Project activities were:
(a)   Improve infrastructure by constructing river control dikes, drains and related
service roads.
(b)   Strengthen administration of the rainfed districts operations by providing field
offices, housing, workshops, equipment and vehicles for operation and
maintenance.
(c)   Provide financial assistance for on-farm works, including drains, land clearing,
and land smoothing.
(d)   Provide for construction of soil conservation structures.



iii
(e)    Strengthen production support services, extension, research, training,
fellowships, and technical services (including national and international
consultants).
(f)    Conduct studies (basic, feasibility, marketing, environmental and
socioeconomic) to provide data for this project and future development in the
state (see para 3.2).
Implementation Experience
3.    Project implementation was satisfactory after delays in finalizing the project's
interinstitutional coordination agreement to organize implementation. The main
implementation weaknesses were weak organization and a lack of counterpart funds during
the first half of the project's life. In early years counterpart funds ranged between only 20%
and 30% of funds required for full implementation. It was only in 1990, when the National
Water Commission (CNA) took over as the lead implementing agency over SARH, that
counterpart funds became adequate, and the pace of implementation picked up. Despite the
initial delays, the project was completed in over seven and a half years, only nine months
beyond the original loan closing date (see para 5.7). The loan amount was fully disbursed,
less a cancellation of $32 million made in 1988.
4.    A major implementation issue was a weak implementation organization. The
anticipated coordination agreement to allow decisions to be taken at the State level never
became operational, because no state funds were required and therefore the State
Development Planning Committee (COPLADE) had neither the authority nor the interest to
play a coordinating role (see para 4.8). The weakness of the implementation organization
was further aggravated by the unforeseen four reorganizations of the Secretariat of
Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH), the implementing agency, during the project
life. Although this could not be predicted at the time of project design, it affected the
integrity of both the project concept, resulting in overemphasis on works by CNA, and of the
execution of environmental studies (see paras 5.4 to 5.7).
Results
5.    Project objectives regarding infrastructure-supported production and productivity gains
were generally achieved (see para 6.1)'. The infrastructure component's objectives were
achieved at rates of 127% for dikes, 179% for roads, and 100% for drains and auxiliary
structures. Project impact on land use and yields was good (see para 6.2). Due to the 1988
cancellation of 36% of the loan amount, only 64% of the target area was developed. This
reduction notwithstanding, the project-financed infrastructure allowed a net increase of 10%
of the project area under agriculture. The main changes were in area under beans (4,000
ha), bananas (6,000 ha), mango (9,000 ha) and livestock (8,000 ha). Crops with declining
area included soybeans (-14,000 ha) and cocoa (-2,000 ha) (see para 6.3).
1  The Chiapas Development Plan objective to reduce inter-regional income disparities was implicitly abandoned with
the cancellation of the Chiapas Rural Roads Project in 1988 (see para 3.1).



iv
6.    Productivity. Productivity and production intensity gains were impressive. In the
coast there were large yield gains in basic grains, perennials and livestock. Banana yields
on the coast at 34 tons/ha are among the highest in the world and revenues from this crop
account for about half of primary production values in the area. In the Central Depression,
the largest yield gains were in basic grains, fruits and vegetables and livestock. A total
production increase of 50% was achieved with a 10% net addition in area. Much of the
intensification occurred in maize, papaya, mango and livestock (see para 6.4). Average net
present values calculated for SAR farm models and assuming actual productivity changes
while other variables remain the same were all highly positive except for the smallest maize
and bean production unit (see paras 6.5 and 6.6).
7.    Employment. Although there are no specific data on the impact of the project on
employment, the 10% net increase of area under agricultural production and intensification
would indicate that employment impact was positive (see para. 6.7).
Project Sustainability2
8.    Project sustainability depends upon: (a) Balancing new infrastructure construction vs.
maintenance. A strong emphasis on new construction must be tempered by maintenance
requirements of the infrastructure network. (b) Cost recovery and service provision policies.
Transfer of infrastructure maintenance to users groups and switch to private extension must
be gradual and include training for service providers. Small rainfed farmers should continue
to receive extension support. (c) Effective environmental monitoring to identify
environmental impacts and implement mitigation measures when needed (see paras 7.1 to
7.4).
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    The project imparted two important lessons. The main one is that an adequate
implementation organization with continuity and proper interinstitutional coordination is
necessary. The implementing agency must be responsible for overall implementation and
have the authority and means to establish priorities for other line agencies. This lesson has
been applied in the Decentralization and Regional Development (DRD I, Loan 3310-ME)
(see para 12. 1).
10.   A second lesson is that an adequate project budget is necessary for successful
implementation. While the project appeared to have had a strong initial commitment from
the government at negotiations, that commitment was not respected until 1990. The same
problem has occurred with other Bank projects (e.g. the Agricultural Technology Project --
ATP, Loan 3465-ME) and is being addressed at the institutional level, i.e., between the Bank
and the Borrower in a dialogue that covers all projects and sectors (see para 12.2).
2.  The project, as implemented, did not include the areas where civil unrest occurred in 1994. Therefore,
sustainablity of project investment is not expected to be affected by those events.






MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name:             Chiapas Agricultural Development Project
Loan No.:                 2526-ME
RVP Unit:                 Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:                  Mexico
Sector:                   Agriculture
2. Background
2.1   Annual GDP growth averaged 6.5% from 1965 to 1980 in Mexico, but some areas of
the country remained economically depressed. An import substitution strategy was followed
during this period, but as the easier possibilities of the strategy became exhausted, the
Government of Mexico (GOM) attempted to stimulate the economy by expanding public
sector, investment and expenditures and increasing market interventions. The strategy of
domestic stimulus failed, and in 1976 Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic
crisis. The major oil discoveries in 1977 and an expansion of foreign borrowing temporarily
relieved the serious financial and economic problems of the mid-1970s and led to an
overheating of the economy. Rising world interest rates and the simultaneous decline of oil
prices forced the government to declare a moratorium on its external debt service in 1982.
Associated with the government's growing indebtedness, inflation escalated from 29% in
1981 to 159% in 1987, real wages fell, and GDP growth averaged only 1% in the 1980s.
2.2   Rapid economic expansion between 1977 and 1982 exacerbated regional imbalances.
As industrialized oil-producing states reached higher standards of living, the most depressed
areas in the south (among them Chiapas) remained largely rural and poor. At least 65 % of
the population in these states is rural, largely dependent on agriculture for subsistence.
Nevertheless, Chiapas is rich in unexploited agricultural potential. In the 1980s, civil unrest
in neighboring Guatemala pushed some of its indigenous Mayan people to seek refuge in the
areas of like ethnic groups in the Chiapas central plateau, which heightened for GOM the
priority of development in Chiapas.
2.3   The government that came to power at the end of 1982 began measures to redress the
country's financial and economic deterioration, including through special efforts to promote
development in depressed regions. These measures included major stabilization programs,



- 2 -
major trade reforms--notably joining the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in
1986--and an Economic Solidarity Pact (PACTO) in 1987, renewed in 1988 and 1993 as the
Economic Stabilization and Growth Pact (PECE), and which is still in force. These
measures have helped reduce inflation from 159% in 1987 to 25% in 1990, and less than
10% in 1993. Among the special efforts to correct regional imbalances was the Chiapas
Development Plan. The Chiapas Agricultural Development Project and parallel Chiapas
Rural Roads Project, (Loan 2525-ME), were the Bank's contribution to the implementation
of the first phase of this Plan.
The Agricultural Sector
2.4   Mexican agriculture expanded at over 4% annually after World War II until the mid-
1960s, in excess of the population growth rate of about 3%. Output growth resulted largely
from the expansion of cultivated area: irrigated area increased by 4.5% annually from 1947
to 1965, and total harvested area grew at more than 6.3%. However, between 1965 and
1980 agricultural GDP averaged around 3%, and was less than 1 % during the 1980s. The
slippage in the agriculture growth rate was due to limits on suitable land for expansion, the
rising cost of irrigation development, the contraction in agricultural credit availability, and
the cumulative effects of the inefficient agricultural policies of the past three decades.
2.5   The main agricultural policy objective in the 1950s and 1960s had been to maintain
low prices for consumers and high prices for producers. To reach that objective, Mexico
had a tightly state-controlled agricultural policy with major interventions in production,
credit, technology, inputs, storage, and processing. Principal policies included:
(a) guaranteed prices of all major crops (maize, beans, wheat, barley, rice, sorghum,
soybeans, safflower, cottonseed, copra, sunflower and sesame), thus distorting resource
allocation; (b) support to inefficient parastatals in the production, processing, and marketing
of cotton, tobacco, coffee, feeds, tropical fruits, seeds, cocoa, and basic grains (maize,
beans, wheat, sorghum, and soybean), which also distorted resource allocation; (c) public
investments in land clearing, that may have pushed agriculture onto economically and
environmentally marginal lands; (d) heavy subsidies for credit, fertilizer and pesticides,
irrigation, machinery, and livestock development, which induced allocative efficiency costs;
and (e) fixed prices of basic foods, implying subsidies to consumers, and which covered a
substantial portion of agricultural production (over 50% in 1987).
2.6   Other Government policies had indirect negative effects on agriculture. An
overvalued exchange rate discriminated against the production of agricultural tradeables.
Quantitative restrictions affected 100% of agricultural and industrial production, thus
damaging the domestic terms of trade for agriculture. Input subsidies and the cost of
maintaining subsidized agricultural parastatals added to the fiscal deficit. The net effect of
indirect Government intervention was to suppress private initiative in agriculture and to
retard growth.



- 3 -
2.7   The economic crisis of 1982 eliminated or at least reduced some of the dual subsidies
to producers and consumers, and GOM began major agricultural policy reforms in the mid-
1980s. Its chief goals were to:
(a)   improve resource allocation efficiency by strengthening market mechanisms
and cutting government intervention in markets;
(b)   increase productivity by raising public and private investment; and
(c)   reach the poorest consumers by increasing income transfers through targeted
food subsidies; and
(d)   put the rural financial system on more of a commercial basis.
2.8   While further reform is required in rural finance and public expenditure allocations, a
culmination of these reform and adjustment efforts was the initiation in early 1994 of the
PROCAMPO program, a de-linked income support program targeted to producers of cotton,
rice, cardamon, barley, beans, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat.
The Role of the Bank
2.9   The Chiapas project was approved at a time when, because of the difficult structural
problems in the sector and the sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's
population living in the rural areas, agriculture was a principal area of Bank involvement in
Mexico. Over the ten years before the Chiapas Agricultural Development Plan was approved
in April 1985, the Bank had played an important role in Mexican agriculture, lending
US$2,374 million for 16 projects. To deal with the financial and economic crisis beginning
in 1982, there was a strong need for structural adjustment measures. For policy reasons,
however, the GOM did not opt for such support, preferring that medium-and long-term
issues be addressed through a series of sector adjustment loans.' Such sector adjustment
operations formed a policy package to build a supportive framework to increase the private
investment necessary to spur growth. The first such loan for agriculture was the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (AGSAL I - Loan 2918-ME) approved in March 1988 for US$500
million, followed in June 1991 by AGSAL II (Loan 3357-ME) for US$400 million. These
loans were associated with a broad policy dialogue on agricultural prices, trade, food
consumption and input supply policies.
2.10 Prior to and after to the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project, the Bank made
several investment loans to help restore agricultural growth. Two of these helped to improve
humid tropical agriculture. The Integrated Development Project for the Humid Tropics
(PRODERITH I, Loan 1553-ME, approved for US$56 million in April 1978) sought to
exploit the potential of the wetter areas by investing in drainage, roads, and agricultural
extension. This project showed that farmers could significantly increase their average yields
of basic annual crops though better access to extension and through proper linkages between
research and extension. A second phase of the project (PRODERITH II, Loan 2658-ME)
was approved for US$109 million in March 1986. This project sought to extend the methods
1.  See the Project Completion Report of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2918-ME) (June 15, 1993)
for a complete list of sector adjustment loans (including hybrid operations) to Mexico.



- 4 -
and results of PRODERITH I to a wider area of tropical Mexico. The Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project sought to apply PRODERITH principles more intensively in Chiapas.
2.11  The Bank supported several other agricultural operations designed to focus
government policy on public investments and to raise sectoral efficiency. The Agricultural
Extension Project (PROCATI, Loan 2859-ME) approved for US$ 20 million in June 1987,
was designed as a pilot to strengthen agricultural extension and adaptive research. The
Irrigation and Drainage Sector Loan (Loan 3419-ME, approved for US$400 million in
December 1991) is designed to make irrigated agriculture more efficient through
rehabilitation of works, new investment, and sectoral policy changes. An Agricultural
Technology Project (ATP, Loan 3465-ME, approved for US$150 million in May 1992) seeks
to strengthen agriculture technology generation and transfer, following the 1987 PROCATI
loan. A Decentralization and Regional Development Project (DRD I, Loan 3310-ME,
approved for US$350 million in March 1991) is assisting the government's largest poverty
program in the four poorest states (Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca). An On-Farm
and Minor Irrigation Networks Improvement Project (Loan 3704-ME, approved for US$200
million in February 1994) has been designed to improve the efficiency and self-reliance of
the irrigation subsector through shared investments by beneficiaries and the Government. A
proposed Rainfed Areas Development Project (RAD) has completed negotiations for a US$85
million loan to improve agricultural productivity in rainfed areas through rural investment to
support farm diversification and technology transfer.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The Chiapas Agricultural Development Project was designed as part of the Bank's
contribution to the execution of a multi-sectoral plan to develop Chiapas. Chiapas is one of
Mexico's poorest and least developed states, with a per capita income of US$350, or 16% of
the national average of US$2.250 in 1984. The Chiapas Development Plan, which was
prepared by the GOM and adopted in May 1983, aimed at addressing the constraints to the
development of the state -- a depressed social environment and lack of communications
infrastructure and agricultural technology -- and was expected to be carried out in several
phases over a 15-year period. At the outset, the GOM planned to focus on accelerating
agricultural growth and improving the physical infrastructure, mainly roads, drains and
auxiliary structures. A parallel Chiapas Rural Roads Project was presented simultaneously to
the Board.2 The linkage between these projects was aimed at reducing the regional income
disparities in the state. The Chiapas Agricultural Development Project was in a different
area of influence and did not include rural roads other than those to be built in direct
physical connection with drainage infrastructure.
3.2    Project objectives were to increase: (a) the area available for rainfed crop production
and intensification of crop and livestock production; (b) agricultural production and
2.  The USS22.0 milLion loan (Loan 2525-ME) was to provide the infrastructure required to assist in the execution of
a program to construct, rehabilitate, improve and maintain rural roads to support the planned agricultural
development activities under the Chiapas Plan. AD but 95% of the loan amount was canceled in 1988 because
GOM did not follow subproject selection or processing priorities as agreed with Bank, and because GOM priorities
changed from the rural roads priorities as identified during preparation.



productivity in land under crops, particularly for small farmers; and (c) rural employment
and family income. Project activities were designed to:
(a)    improve infrastructure by constructing river control dikes, drains and related
farm service roads;
(b)    strengthen administration of SARH's rainfed district operations by providing
field offices, housing, workshops, equipment and vehicles for operation and
maintenance;5
(c)    provide financial assistance for on-farm works, including drains, land clearing,
and land levelling;
(d)    construct soil conservation structures;
(e)    strengthen production support services, such as extension and research, and
technical services (including national and international consultants); and
(f)    conduct studies (basic, feasibility, marketing, environmental and
socioeconomic) to provide data for this project and future development in the
state.
3.3    The project area originally included areas in the Coast, the Central Depression and
the Central Plateau. The coastal project areas were not defined other than that they be bound
by the 300m and 5m above sea level (asl) contourlines: of these 255,000 ha, 90,000 ha were
to be selected for full development (on-farm works in addition to drainage infrastructure) on
the basis of agreed criteria. These criteria were that lands be occupied mainly by ejidos and
small farmers, and be economically and environmentally suitable for agricultural production,
and that the support services (credit, extension) be provided on a timely and adequate
manner. The areas in the Central Depression were well defined, and included Comitan,
Suchiapa, San Miguel II and Margenes de Grijalva. The area in the Central Plateau was Los
Altos (7,500 ha). The last two areas were dropped in 19886.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1    The project's total estimated cost was US$181.6 million, of which US$90 million
were to be financed by the loan. The project was designed to respond to specific problems
identified in the Chiapas Development Plan, support the government policy of developing the
poorest areas, and meet project objectives (see para 3.2). Project objectives were shared by
Government and implementing agencies. It had a clear conceptual foundation based on the
PRODERITH I experience, particularly as already established in Acapetahua, which was also
a Chiapas Agricultural Development sub-project area. The implementing agency was SARH,
as in PRODERITH I. The project was appraised on the basis of extensive feasibilities
studies of most of the project area. Further feasibility studies were to be undertaken under
the project for a possible second phase project. Project components were: (a) Infrastructure;
5.  SARH Districts provided technology generation and transfer services and were organized into irrigation and
rainfed. Districts were later consolidated into Rural Development Districts (DDRs).
6.  Thus, as implemented, the project did not include Central Plateau areas which in 1994 became the locus of civil
unrest.



- 6 -
(b) On-farm Development; (c) Agricultural Support Services; and (d) Other Related Services
as described below.
4.2   Infrastructure (US$76 million or 42% of the total project cost). The project
included substantial work to control floods in the coastal areas from 5-300 meters asl and in
five areas in the Central Depression and Plateau. These works included about 350 km of
dikes, with associated roads, to protect farmland and rural communities, 475 km of service
road construction and rehabilitation (complementing the Chiapas Rural Roads Project), 600
km of drains to remove excess surface water and control the water table, and 300 km of
farms service roads with drains and 300 auxiliary structures (fords, bridges, culverts,
sediment traps and crossings).
4.3   On-farm development (US$21.4 million or 12% of total project cost). The project
had envisaged GOM would provide medium- and long-term credit in the project areas,
mostly in Los Altos, for the construction of field drains, terraces, land clearing and
smoothing, and soil conservation structures. It was estimated that about 100,000 ha would
require some investment, 50,000 ha land clearing and that about one-third of the works
associated with on-farm investment would consist of soil conservation works, which would
benefit the community and be financed by public funds. Most of the soil conservation works
would be in Los Altos, one of the poorest areas of the State, where holdings are small and
fragmented (1 to 3 ha) on steep fragile soils unsuitable for cultivation without soil
conservation structures.
4.4   Agricultural Support Services (US$31.5 or 17% of total project cost). These
included research and extension. Research under the project was to foster closer
collaboration with extension and more adaptive research to fit farmers' needs. The
component was to be implemented by the National Institute for Research on Crops,
Livestock, and Forestry (INIFAP), in collaboration with extension agents in SARH's rainfed
districts and later, Rural Development District (DDRs). It was to be geared toward:
improving yields of existing and non-traditional suitable crops to benefit from drainage
investments; developing new varieties; improving farming systems and management
practices; working more on forestry and livestock in marginal areas; and developing
profitable technical packages. A problem identified during preparation affecting the research
system was a lack of resources to cover operating costs. Under the project, that problem
was to have been resolved by having all of INIFAP's incremental costs related to the project
reimbursable under the loan. The public extension service operating in the project area was
to be expanded under the project to avail farmers of improved technology. The project was
to implement the intensive extension methodologies developed under PRODERITH I. The
number of extension agents in the project area was to increase from 169 to 571, which would
be appropriate to the expected increase in farm area and output resulting from the project.
4.5   Other Related Services (US$53.1 million or 29% of total project cost). These
included:
(a)   consultant services (180 man-months) to help SARH strengthen its operations
on the areas of soil conservation and support services, environmental and
socioeconomic impact analysis and research, extension communications, and
the conduct of pre-investment studies;



(b)   studies, including pre-investment, detailed farm soil surveys, bathymetric and
hydrological surveys of the lagoons and permanent wetlands of the Coast,
marketing requirements in the project area at full development, and periodic
socioeconomic and environmental reviews;
(c)   monitoring and evaluation to analyze project execution, beneficiary acceptance
and response to the development investment, changes in the production system
(cropping patterns, intensity and yields), and environmental and sociological
changes; and
(d)   project implementation and administration, including the construction of office
space, storage and staff housing facilities, workshops, equipment for
infrastructure maintenance and vehicles for construction and production
operations.
4.6   The project's total cost was to be financed by the Federal Government (49%),
beneficiaries (1 %) and the Bank (50%). No financing was required from the Chiapas State
Government. Some 59% of the loan amount was assigned to infrastructure, 4% to on-farm
development, 10% to agricultural development and 27% to other related services as opposed
to 42%, 12%, 17% and 29% of total project cost.
4.7   Project Organization. The GOM stated during preparation (and later ratified in a
Single Development Agreement (Convenio Unico de Desarrollo for Chiapas) their intention
to use this project as a mechanism to decentralize development planning and implementation
to the state level. SARH would be the implementing agency and would keep the State
Development Planning Committee (COPLADE) informed of project activities for
coordination of planning and programming of future operations. Representatives of
producers and federal, state and local government would constitute a sub-committee, under
COPLADE to coordinate and integrate the annual work program of each district, as well as
monitor and evaluate project progress. SARH would follow traditional organization,
management, and execution lines used in its projects in oth- rainfed areas. All
infrastructure design, tendering, construction and supervision would be carried out under
SARH's Undersecretariat for Large-Scale Irrigation (which became the National Water
Commission --CNA-- in 1988) through the District Offices of the Resident Engineers. The
Undersecretariat for Agricultural Operations would carry out operations, maintenance and
technical services for agricultural production through the rainfed districts where each
subproject was located (Tapachula, Villaflores, Tuxtla Gutierrez, Comitan and San
Cristobal). SARH's State Representative would be responsible for the supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of each rainfed district subproject.
4.8   In retrospect, the project design and organization were based on a sound concept and
an unrealistic --although desirable -- organization set-up. The project concept --of integrating
infrastructure and agricultural technology generation and transfer to increase farm income
and employment -- was well internalized and understood by SARH, as it had been the
implementing agency of PRODERITH I. The timing was appropriate in that it was
consistent to the demands from Chiapas (see para 3.1). But it was unrealistic to expect
COPLADE to have an active role for coordination and integrating work programs without



- 8 -
having any in role in assigning project funds. This was not a determinant success factor in
this case.
5. Project Implementation
5.1   The loan became effective in April 1986, one year after Board presentation.
Effectiveness was affected by the delay in finalizing an agreement to set up a special
subcommittee in COPLADE to coordinate activities of the Chiapas Rural Roads and the
Agricultural Development Projects. In fact, this difficulty foreshadowed future
implementation organization problems because even when the agreement was signed by both
the Chiapas Rural Roads and Agricultural Development Projects implementing agencies, it
never became operational. COPLADE never played its foreseen role of coordinating agency
(see para 4.7), principally because no state funds were involved in project financing.
5.2   Although project targets were met for the most part, implementation was marred by a
weak organization unable to manage the overall program, and insufficient counterpart funds.
After a slow start and as the new administration took office (1988), priorities had moved
toward macroeconomic adjustment and away from regional development programs. This
change in priorities resulted in significant loan cancellations of US$32 million (36% of
original loan amount) in 1988, as well as the effective cancellation of the Chiapas Rural
Roads Project. No official reprogramming of project targets followed the cancellations. In
1990, CNA became the de facto project implementing agency. Together, these changes are
reflected in variances between planned and actual project implementation of each component,
as follows:
(a)   changes in the project areas and in the quantity of works, mainly roads.
Feasibility studies indicated that the minor work contemplated in the Margenes
de Grijalva and Los Altos project areas (7,000 and 7,500 ha, respectively),
would not yield the expected results in cropping patterns and production value,
so these areas were dropped by the Government. A 1988 Bank supervision
visit to Los Altos arrived to a similar conclusion. Road construction reached
179% of target;
(b)   non-implementation of the on-farm development component. Much of the on-
farm works were to be carried out by SARH in Los Altos sub-project area,
which was dropped (see para above). The remaining works were to be
financed by credit which, because of the restructuring of the public rural
financial system, did not become available (see para 2.7 (d));
(c)   because of a reduction in the research and extension recurrent budget, and a
drop in the number of extension agents (from 169 to 99) technology transfer
from INIFAP to farmers was not disseminated in a timely fashion (an
exception was an INIFAP's Rosario Izapa's research staff's initiative to
establish demonstration plots in one project area). During implementation
GOM changed its extension policy to promote private extension. To facilitate
the policy transition from public to private extension (see para 5.5) CNA
provided extension in Acapetahua through the Mexican Institute of Water



- 9 -
Technology (under CNA), and later hired a private extension group, the
Integrated Technical Assistance for the Chiapas Coast (ATIOCOCH), to
provide organization and technology services to farmers on the Coast (see para
7.3); and
(d)   partial completion of studies. Only feasibility, prefeasibility studies and
monitoring of water quality studies and an environmental diagnosis for the
Acapetahua Hydrological Region, one of the coastal project ares, were
completed. The marketing study focusing on additional storage requirement
was dropped with Bank agreement. All other studies (baseline, environmental
and socioeconomic impact assessments and monitoring and evaluation) were
not completed because the implementation agency lacked necessary technical
skills. A Bank-requested environmental audit to assess project's environmental
impacts and propose mitigation measures for all project areas is ongoing (see
para 5.6) and is being followed up in PRODERITH II.
5.3   The following sections discuss the principal implementation difficulties with the
operation and the lessons learned from them.
5.4   Implementation Organization. The implementation organization envisaged at
preparation, which relied on coordination between SARH and COPLADE, was unable to
accomplish the desired decentralization objective and handicapped overall project
implementation. COPLADE could not help decentralize decisions to the State level because
it did not have a role in either design, implementation or coordination as it provided no funds
and had no authority over SARH. As it did not participate in the project, a joint monitoring
and evaluation unit with SARH never materialized, so that the monitoring and evaluation
subcomponent was not carried out.
5.5   Project implementation was adversely affected by SARH's four reorganizations.
These changes were unforeseen at the time of project design. As a result, SARH did not
provide leadership in on-farm development, research and extension and other related
services. SARH was mainly affected by: (a) the 1988 reorganization, when the
Undersecretariat of Large-Scale Irrigation was split to become CNA (officially created in
1989), an autonomous agency under SARH; and (b) the change in its extension policy from
public provision to targeted public provision to small rainfed farmers and private provision to
larger farmers with a cost recovery phase-in. This policy change resulted in a rapid
reduction of SARH's extension staff. As a result of the reorganizations, and although SARH
continued to be the official implementing agency of the Chiapas Agricultural Development
Project, CNA became the de-facto implementing agency in 1990. Therefore the project
became more and more an infrastructure project and the integrity of the project concept was
weakened.
5.6   One of the main areas adversely affected by the weak implementation organization
was the environmental monitoring and completion of baseline and impact studies. Because
the coastal area projects were bound between 300 and 5 asl, CNA was not responsible for
the environmental impact of the drainage infrastructure on land below the 5m asl contourline,
where the impact was most important. This also meant that CNA could not be held



- 10 -
responsible for correcting the negative impact of the drainage works on land below the 5m
asl level (CNA did introduce some preventive sandtraps in some of the major drains, but
these were ineffective under the area's heavy seasonal rainfall and the sharp reduction in
flood flow on the flat coastal plains). And finally, the studies to monitor the impact were not
done because of lack of technical skills in both CNA and in the Secretariat of Urban
Development and Ecology (SEDUE). The project foresaw that the environmental impact
monitoring would be carried out by SEDUE. But neither SEDUE nor the Secretariat of
Social Development (SEDESOL), which assumed SEDUE's responsibilities in 1991, ever
assumed the project's environmental monitoring responsibilities. One reason was that
SEDUE's monitoring was not financed by the project because it was believed that it would
be part of SEDUE's regular functions.
5.7   Counterpart Funds. Project budget availability had been noted in the SAR as a
project risk. GOM gave assurances during negotiations that sufficient counterpart funds
would be made available in 1985, but the project became effective in 1986. Funds provided
ranged from 20% to 30% of requirements during 1986-89. After two years of slow
implementation, GOM requested cancellation of US$ 32 million in 1988. The level of funds
became acceptable in relation to the reduced project size, in 1990, when CNA took over
project implementation. After 1990, the pace of implementation picked up and the reduced
project was completed in seven and a half years (nine months beyond the original Closing
Date). Subsequent Bank agricultural operations in Mexico have established more explicit
budget commitments, but frequently budget support continues not to be in line with what is
agreed in project design and negotiations.
6. Project Results
6.1   Overall Objectives. The broad objectives of the operation were achieved: to increase
production, productivity and employment by the construction of infrastructure to increase
productive area, and by the generation and transfer of appropriate technology for the area
developed. Farmer communities have better access to social services in the area (a direct
impact of the project's rural road construction program), agricultural resources are being
better used--in particular through the diversification out of extensive cattle ranching on
periodically flooded lands and other low input farming systems to more intensive perennial
crop growing on the now better drained lands (a direct beneficial impact of the project's
drainage and flood protection program); dairy farming intensification became possible
through the regular milk collection at the farm by the regional milk processing industry.
There are no data on project effect on farm employment. The project's expected
contribution to the Chiapas' Plan objectives of reducing the intra-state disparities was
implicitly abandoned with the cancellation of the Chiapas Rural Roads Project.
6.2   Infrastructure. The project's objective of providing road and drainage infrastructure
was achieved. The component achieved 127% of target for dikes, 179% for roads and 100%
for drains and auxiliary structures. The roads network provided better access to markets and
social services, and drainage infrastructure allowed higher intensification of agricultural
production.



- 11 -
6.3   Area Development. The project's objective to increase agricultural land was
achieved. Due to the 1988 official cancellation of 36% of the loan amount, only 64% of the
target area to be developed was achieved. This reduction notwithstanding, project area under
agricultural production increased a net 10%, mainly to beans (4,000 ha), bananas (6,000 ha),
mangos (9,000 ha) and livestock (8,000 ha). Crops with declining area include soybeans (-
14,000 ha) and cocoa (-2,000 ha) (see Table 6.B.)
6.4   Productivity Results. The objective to increase productivity was achieved, however
the project's contribution to this objective cannot be quantified. Productivity gains were
good as a result of better land and successful research results, despite the fact that the closer
linkage to extension did not materialize. Research on the Coast undertaken by INIFAP on
annual crops, pasture improvement and tropical fruits, resulted in improved maize varieties,
in better pasture management practices, in an early-ripening mango cultivar and in one
mosaic-resistant black bean cultivar. Unfortunately, there was very little research
coordination at the Federal and State levels (i.e. between INIFAP's Rosario Izapa research
and the State's Secretaria de Desarrollo Rural y Ecologia research on perennial crops
although the stations are only a few miles away). Improved technology was not accessible to
farmers because: they were not organized to receive technology and had no access to
alternative private extension services; INIFAP's lack or resources did not allow them to set
up many demonstration plots to show research results (Rosario Izapa being an exception);
and public extension services were scaled down. There were impressive yield gains in both
the coastal area (basic grains +33%, perennials +18%, livestock +73%) and in the Central
Depression (basic grains +46%, fruits and vegetables +77% and livestock +105%).
Current banana yields on the Coast at 34 tons/ha are among the highest in the world and
revenues from this crop account for about half of primary production values in the area, with
maize and mango at distant second places. In banana plantations, project drainage
infrastructure allows ejidatarios (Agrarian Reform beneficiaries) to benefit from the 1992
Article 27 of the Constitution which allows joint-ventures with foreign investors, the farmers
contributing land and labor and the investors capital, technology and management (see Table
6.B).
6.5   Production Patterns. The project contributed to increase the intensity of agricultural
production and change the production patterns. Drainage infrastructure has permitted a
transition from low-input subsistence farming systems or extensive cattle growing to more
intensified production systems, including the introduction of cash crops (mostly fruit trees) in
farmers' cropping systems, which are better adapted to prevailing ecological conditions. A
production increase of 50% was achieved with a net 10% addition in area (see Table 6.B).
6.6   Average net present values were calculated for SAR farm models assuming actual
productivity changes and no changes in original prices. The calculated NPVs using a 12%
discount rate were all highly positive except for the smallest maize and bean production unit
(Table 6C) and are due to production intensification and changes to perennial crops made
possible by drainage infrastructure. These results are consistent with recent analysis of farm
models in rainfed areas of 20 states, over approximately 6,000 ha and involving more than
1300 beneficiaries.



- 12 -
6.7    Employment. Although there are no specific data on the impact of the project on
farm employment, the 10% net increase of area under agricultural production and
intensification would indicate that employment impact was positive.
7. Project Sustainability7
7.1    Project sustainability will depend on the GOM careful balancing of new construction
and maintenance, cost recovery and service provision policies, and strengthening the
environmental monitoring of project area activities.
7.2    New Construction and Maintenance. The project's new construction targets were
given priority over establishing a sustainable maintenance system, jeopardizing the long term
sustainability of the infrastructure network. The infrastructure component's objectives were
achieved, but the maintenance record is poor. Until 1992, the project's main activity was to
construct rural roads, with road densities approaching lkm/2 km2. Construction was of
satisfactory quality, but inappropriate specifications may have needlessly increased the cost of
maintenance because 2-lane, 6-meter wide feeder roads were constructed in spite of the low-
traffic (about 30 vehicles per day), and the large-diameter surface gravel used difficult
maintenance because motograders have a destructive effect when reshaping surface and more
material is demanded for resurfacing than with smaller-diameter gravel. This is particularly
worrisome since the Government has started to transfer road maintenance to local users
groups, irrespective of the facts that: (a) the roads' legal ownership is not clear; and (b) that
the farmers' access to the infrastructure is not exclusive. SARH (and later CNA) have
performned little infrastructure maintenance. Bank estimates of CNA's roads maintenance
expenditure are about 1 % of investment (rule of thumb is 5%), and GOM has adopted a
policy to transfer maintenance to users groups. As a result, about US$1.0 million in
maintenance equipment was purchased and transferred to the Acapetahua Civil Society, a
large users association. The Bank has expressed concern that the farmers group may lack the
financial and technical wherewithal to carry out appropriate maintenance. As a matter of
fact, the project was still financing a contract for a qualified firm to perform maintenance
after the equipment was transferred. The Bank has requested the GOM to submit a road and
drainage maintenance policy outline, which is being followed up in PRODERITH II.
7.3    Cost Recovery and Service Provision Policies. Although the project design included
features to increase sustainability through regulation of infrastructure maintenance cost
recovery, it did not do so for extension services. During project preparation, the GOM
issued a decree to allow production units to recover costs from infrastructure construction
and operations and maintenance, in accordance with the Agricultural Development Law of
1981 and the Water Law of 1972. This policy was applied in the design of cost recovery for
road maintenance and is expected to be phased-in in the private provision of extension
services for larger farmers, with a cost-recovery phase-in. The GOM intends to assess a
users fee of about US$9.0 per ha to finance road maintenance, but it still not clear how that
will be done without clear road ownership. The success of these policies will depend on: (a)
7.  The project, as implemented, did not include areas which in 1994 became the locus of civil unrest. Thus,
sustainability of project investment and benefits are not expected to be affected by those events.



- 13 -
continued funding for road maintenance during the transition; (b) continued funding for
training to upgrade the technical skills of service providers; and (c) continued extension
support for small farmers.
7.4   Environmental Monitoring. Except for water quality monitoring, no environmental
monitoring activities were carried out (see paras 5.2(d) and 5.6). The environmental audit is
expected to assess project's impact in all project areas and include mitigation measures which
should be implemented by GOM. The environmental diagnosis of the Acapetahua
Hydrological Region raised issues related to the multiple use of surface water by agricultural
and aquacultural producers; the mis-use of agrochemicals; interinstitutional coordination; and
water quality monitoring systems. One conclusion of this study is that linkages between the
central plateau and Depression and the coastal areas should not be considered in isolation.
The proposed Aquaculture project preparation would address the environmental monitoring
issues raised in the environmental audit (see para. 5.2(d))
8. Bank Performance
8.1   Bank performance in project preparation and design was good. The Bank acted
innovatively by helping to develop the Plan Chiapas and supporting it through two
independent but complementary operations that were processed in parallel. The Chiapas
Agricultural Development Project was based on appropriate prior lending experience in that
it intended to replicate the successful PRODERITH I experience in Chiapas.
8.2   The project had good staff continuity and discipline. Regular supervision missions
during the implementation period, notably by staff in the Mexico field office in the later
years of the project were particularly good for civil works. Supervision missions during
most of the implementation period were timed between 6 to 12 months during the project and
had good contact with the various project components and agencies. Bank staff were in
regular contact with project management during missions for other operations, and for sector
work. Extensive field visits were made during supervision missions to check progress in the
districts, at associated INIFAP research sites, and in project headquarters.
8.3   The most important shortcoming in the Bank performance during implementation was
the failure to insist that GOM support the parallel development of the project's infrastructure
and agriculture activities, including the completion of studies. This led to an overemphasis
on infrastructure construction to the relative neglect of both accelerating technological change
for smaller farmers, and of monitoring the possible environmental impact of improved
drainage on the lands below 5m asl.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1   Borrower performance in project preparation, notably in absorbing results of the
initial sector work, identifying candidate project districts, and carrying out feasibility studies
was timely and of adequate quality to meet project objectives. There were several
weaknesses in the Borrower's performance during implementation, however. These
weaknesses were due to a weak implementation organization (see paras 5.4 to 5.6) and lack
of funding (see para 5.7). The lack of monitoring and evaluation contributed to a failure to



- 14 -
measure if project objectives were achieved. Of special concern was the intended reliance on
COPLADE, which lacked authority to effectively coordinate the project activities of the
agencies involved. Another major weakness was the lack of contact between the lead project
agency (SARH and later CNA) and the agencies responsible for carrying out the agricultural
components.
9.2   Project disbursements. Procedures for project disbursements for works are well
established and understood, but not adhered by for research and extension activities. Because
local branches of SARH and INIFAP were not reimbursed for additional project activities,
they lack incentives to follow Bank guidelines, gather and submit documentation for project
disbursement. In the absence of inter-agency coordination, as it was the case in this project,
the reporting relationship was lost and many activities which could have been carried out
under the project were not. This happened despite the fact that, under PRODERITH I,
specific mechanisms were put in place for resource transfers for project activities.
10. Project Relationship
10.1  The Bank-Borrower relationship throughout this project was good. The shared
emphasis on targeting the poorest states continues in other projects, for instance the DRD I
targets the four southern states (see para 2.11). The working relationship have been close, as
demonstrated by the Borrower's request of Bank participation in the early stages of outlining
a road and drainage maintenance policy and system, which is being followed up in
PRODERITH II.
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.1  The legal agreements and appraisal report were generally satisfactory except for the
lack of any legal requirements related to the environment. The Loan and Guarantee
Agreements were amended in 1989, to strengthen SEDUE's function to assess and monitor
the environmental impact of the project.



- 15 -
12. Lessons Learned
12.1  The project imparted two important lessons. The main one is that an adequate
implementation organization, continuity and proper coordination are necessary to achieving
original project objectives. The implementing agency must be responsible for overall
implementation and have the authority and means to establish priorities to other line
agencies. As the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project demonstrates, an agency without
a resource allocation role (COPLADE) will be unable to coordinate other agencies' activities.
Also, the project demonstrates that an agency dedicated to infrastructure construction is not
likely to subordinate its priorities to agricultural technology generation and transfer without
the watchful eye of a strong coordinating agency aware of the importance of the other
components to achieve overall project goals. For instance, the DRD I project activities are
financed by matching grants between SEDESOL and COPLADE so priority and coordination
are ensured. The State proposes the investment program in specific areas and SEDESOL
agrees to match funds, targeting investments to poor areas (rural municipalities/communities
not over 5,000 inhabitants) using agreed index and formula across rural areas to avoid
concentration. Alternatively, projects should focus on activities that can be implemented by
a single agency.
12.2  A second lesson is that a sufficient project budget is necessary for successful
implementation. While the project had a strong initial commitment from the government at
negotiations, that commitment was not respected until 1990, which was the first year of full
implementation. The same problem has occurred with other Bank projects (i.e. the
Agricultural Technology project) with even stricter budget commitments. The budget issue is
being addressed at the institutional level, i.e., between the Bank and the Borrower in a
dialogue that covers all projects and sectors.






- 17 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction
1.1   The State of Chiapas is located in Southeast Mexico. It is divided into the Coast,
Central Depression, Los Altos and Northern physiographic regions. The physical,
productive and socioeconomic characteristics vary considerably among them.
1.2  In order to formulate the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project and to determine
works, productivity and economic and technical feasibility, various studies were undertaken;
among them, topography, hydrology, agrology, soil uses, land tenure and commercialization
studies.
1.3   Project area was 317,000 ha, which was later adjusted to 288,000 ha. In the Coast
region, where the Tapachula, Huixtla, Acapetahua and Margaritas Pijijiapan subprojects were
located, the area was 240,000 ha; in the Central Depression, where the Margaritas Comitan,
Suchiapa-Santo Domingo and San Miguel II were located, the area was 48,000 ha.
1.4   Subproject sites were selected because they offered the highest possibility of attaining
project goals; their selection was based on criteria that recognized and differentiated
subwatersheds, trends in productive capacity, variations in resource potential and the basic
organization of technical services in the rainfed districts.
1.5   The area where the subproject sites were located has significant physical differences.
Annual precipitation ranges from 1000 mm and 3000 mm during a six-month period and the
annual mean temperature varies from 18C in the Comiteca Meseta to 28C in the coast. In
general, the climate conditions permit growing rainfed crops such as cereals, cotton, soya,
rice, sugarcane, tropical fruits and pastures.
1.6   The principal constraints for rural development were physical, technical and
socioeconomic-inundations, excess humidity, lack of communication and use of traditional
technologies that were not viable in the context of excess humidity and the different
socioeconomic levels.
1.7   Project's principal objectives were to increase: (a) productive rainfed area;
(b) agricultural production and productivity with a view to improving food self sufficiency
and increasing exports; and (c) rural employment and family income.



- 18 -
Project Strategy:
1.8   Project strategy emphasized that emphasized the producers' participation within a
policy framework of decentralization and transferring the resources and functions to users'
organizations and institutional coordination.
Components:
(a)   constructing basic infrastructure: 475 km of farm service roads; 600 km of
drains to remove excess water; 350 km of flood control dikes; 300 km of
farm service roads with drains and auxiliary structures;
(b)   constructing works and developing soil and water conservation;
(c)   improving technical assistance for on-farm development, leveling and
technology transfer;
(d)   strengthening production support services, such as extension, research and
technical services, including local and international consulting; and
(e)   undertaking basic feasibility, marketing, environmental impact and
socioeconomic studies.
1.9   The strategies, methodologies and instruments used in the Project arose from the
experiences from the first phase of the Tropical Agriculture Development Project
(PRODERITH I), in particular, the experiences from the Acapetahua Subproject in the State
of Chiapas.
2. Bank's Performance
The Loan:
2.1   The Project was identified during visits by the Bank during 1982 and 1983. Its
preparation was completed in February 1984. The Bank and the Government of Mexico,
through Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), signed the loan agreement on July 16, 1985 (Chiapas
Agricultural Development Project, Loan 2526-ME) for the original amount of US$90
million. The Loan intended to finance 59% of infrastructure; 10% of technical services and
studies costs; 16% of the project administration costs; 12% of the on-farm development,
extension and training; and 3% of research, monitoring and evaluation. (Staff Appraisal
Report, Chiapas Development Project, Report No. 5167b-ME, 25 March 1985).
Project Development:
2.2   Beginning in December 1985, the Bank undertook preparation missions for the
Chiapas Agricultural Development Project. It was considered convenient to apply the
experiences, methods and instruments generated in the first phase of PRODERITH, among
them the Drainage Manual, Production and Conservation Plans, Local Development Plans,



- 19 -
and the Rural Communications System. These instruments allowed promoting producer
participation and giving integrity to the various rural development components through
technical and economic support.
2.3   The Loan became effective in 1986. In December 1986, the supervision missions for
project execution began. Members of Bank, the Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos (SARH) and the Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA) participated. They
reviewed the advances made in the different project components. These missions formulated
corresponding aide memoires and reported the necessary adjustments required for fulfilling
the works. Bank technical staff supervised and reviewed project financial statements with the
view to make recommendations and the necessary adjustments for timely disbursements. The
Bank approved the previously established and agreed to disbursement mechanisms and the
documentary proof.
2.4   Until 1988, the Bank noted that Project implementation had been slow due to lower
budget allocation and lack of institutional coordination and indicated administrative
difficulties in disbursements. Consequently, the Bank recommended in its reports to
prorogate disbursement costs and to improve government agencies' intervention. Similarly,
the Bank demonstrated its concern for the project's environmental impact. In September
1998, the Project management was reorganized and US$32 million of the loan canceled,
leaving an adjusted loan amount of US$58 million.
2.5   CNA was created in 1989. It became the project implementing agency. At that time,
the Bank noted an advance in project implementation and highlighted measures to implement
actions addressing environmental concerns, especially in the high regions of coastal river
basins and for maintaining the El Triunfo ecological reserve.
2.6  In 1991, 158,000 had benefitted from infrastructure development, which represented
a 56% physical targets. Infrastructure for the subprojects in the Central Depression was
completed except for the canalization of the Rio Grande de Comitan and in the Acapetahua
and Huixtla de la Costa projects, it was estimated to reach 100%, by which the Bank
emphasized its recommendations towards operation and maintenance of infrastructure and
purchasing equipment for these ends. The efforts of producers who contributed resources
and labor are recognized. Similarly, it is valued satisfactory the technology generation
results and their application to maize, mango and cacao and pasture, although it must be
indicated that there were limitations in technology transfer due to personnel reductions in the
extension services.
2.7   By the November 23, 1992 Supervision Mission, 75% of physical targets had been
achieved, supporting the GOM's request to extend the closing date to December 31, 1993.
2.8  In November 1993, the last evaluation mission was carried out and Bank's
consultants expressed their satisfaction for the opportune attention to its recommendations as
well as to the auditors' observations.



- 20 -
Conclusions
2.9   The Bank carried out supervision and inspection missions systematically. The Bank
monitored the advances made and followed up the other actions of the various project
components. These factors contributed to applying solutions with the principal aim of
attaining the stated objectives.
3. Government Performance.
Institutional Aspects
3.1   The Project was prepared in 1983 in order to meet the development needs of the
State of Chiapas within the framework of the National Hydraulic Plan (1975 and 1982). This
plan identified the Gulf and Southeast Zones of our country as regions of high and medium
potential for commercial agriculture. The Project took into consideration the experiences,
methods, instruments and the human resources developed during the first phase of
PRODERITH, in particular in the Acapatahua Project in Chiapas.
3.2   The National Hydraulic Plan Commission (CPNH), under SARH, prepared studies
and plans. It received support from  SARH's Studies Directorate, SARH's state office in
Chiapas, the Government of the State of Chiapas, as well as from the State Development
Planning Development Committee (COPLADE).
Project Development
3.3  In the National Development Plan (1983-1988), the Government indicated the need to
make special efforts to promote development in those regions with relatively less
development. It gave the State of Chiapas a high priority. In 1983, the Government
announced a multisectoral development plan for the State of Chiapas as part of its strategy
for regional development. It emphasized the activities required for agricultural growth,
infrastructure development and roads. It was a high priority project; its regional
development strategy sought to increase agricultural production, accelerate economic growth,
alleviate poverty, and correct socioeconomic imbalances.
3.4   The Bank and the Government of Mexico signed the Loan Agreement, which would
be administered by NAFIN, and a Loan Guarantee Agreement on July 16, 1985.
3.5   The SARH state office in the State of Chiapas was responsible for coordinating,
supervising, monitoring and evaluating each of the subprojects of the rainfed districts. The
SARH state office was responsible also of informing COPLADE of advances and obstacles
during project instrumentation so that the latter agency would be able to take the necessary
steps to overcome them. Operations would be carried out through SARH's Directive and
Technical Committees of the Rainfed Districts.
3.6   SARH relied upon various dependencies to carry out specific tasks related to rural
development: (a) General Directorate for Large-Scale Irrigation; (b) General Directorate for
Production and Agricultural Extension; (c) the national institutes for agricultural, livestock



- 21 -
and forestry research (INIA, INIP, and INIF); (d) the General Directorate for Soil and Water
Conservation (DGCSA); and (e) the National Fruit Growing Commission (CONAFRUT).
The Credit would be channeled primarily through the Agricultural Trust Fund (FIRA) and
the National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL).
3.7   The National Development Plan (1983-1988) defined a decentralization policy which
required structural reforms such as streamlining government apparatus, in order to improve
efficiency and promote a reorganization of institutional services. The greater part of the
Project's life was conducted under the application of the Agrarian Reform and the Water
National Laws, which were modified in the last phases of the Project since their
predecessors had failed to respond to the new conditions related to soil and water use that the
country required.
3.8   By virtue of the fact that COPLADE undertook general coordination tasks in the State
and the Project required particular attention for its instrumentation, COPLADE's
contribution to decision making decentralization was slight since it did not contribute project
investment funds. As a result, it did not have relevant input for project design,
instrumentation and coordination.
3.9   Through the rainfed districts, SARH accomplished technical assistance and conducted
project execution. Later on, Rural Development Districts (and within them, Support Centers
for Integral Rural Development (CADRI)) were developed within each subproject under the
National Program for Integrated Rural Development (PRONADRI). Its action had a focus
based on the model created by PRODERITH, although there was a significant decrease in its
personnel.
3.10  Research tasks were reorganized also: three national research institutes (agricultural,
livestock, and forestry) were combined to form a single National Institute for Forestry,
Livestock and Agricultural Research (INIFAP), which maintained continuity in its tasks of
generating technology within a larger, integrated framework. The Mexican Institute for
Water Technology (IMTA) was created for research, technology development and transfer
and training for technical and professional personnel in water related matters; it had a
significant role in systematizing the methodologies generated in PRODERITH's first phase,
in training and creating methodologies, as well as in technology transfer for water and soil
conservation.
3.11  SARH'S General Directorate for Large-Scale Irrigation, through its Residencias de
Construcci6n (Construction Offices), undertook infrastructure design, construction and
supervision. In accordance with the procedures of the Public Works Law and its
Regulations, these were undertaken by competitive public bidding.
3.12  Until 1988, the Project development was below what had been programmed, resulting
in partial loan cancellation. Carrying out and coordinating the Project improved, as the
economic crisis abated, after creating CNA and sensibly increasing budget allocations.
These made it possible to advance rapidly in constructing infrastructure, acquiring machinery
and equipment for conservation and linking the infrastructure program with technical
assistance and research.



- 22 -
3.13 Beginning in 1989, investments were concentrated in the Acapetahua and Huixtla
Subprojects with the aim of avoiding dispersion, consolidating close areas and achieving
significant short term results.
3.14 CNA undertook to propose the country's water policy. It formulated the National
Program for Irrigation and Drainage (1990-1994) within which were established the strategy
and procedure for construction, operation and maintenance of water works and required
actions for their integrated use. Under the framework of CNA, the Drainage Districts
Management Office was created. It would serve regions with hydroagricultural
infrastructure. It would also promote full and efficient uses in the tropical and subtropical
coastal plains, so as to better production and living conditions and coordinate actions among
the Chiapas Agricultural Development, the San Fernando (Tamps.) and PRODERITH II
Projects.
3.15 The Drainage Districts Management Office prompted the users towards greater
participation in hydroagricultural management, as it sought to transfer to their organizations
tasks related to operations and maintenance.
3.16 With CNA's creation, the infrastructure construction tasks were executed by the
Construction Management Office of the General Subdirectorate of Hydroagricultural
Infrastructure. These consisted of various contracts for supervision, goods and services
which were assigned to various firms and whose performance can be considered satisfactory.
When it was necessary, the recommendations and auditing remedial actions were undertaken,
reaching satisfactorily the fulfillment of physical objectives.
3.17  Upon the opening of new possibilities for agricultural development, technical
assistance was carried out through various means. While some commercial houses cultivated
vegetables, other private firms managed the technical aspects of high value crops such as
banana and tobacco. The actions of official institutions became limited to dealing with basic
crops and the African palm.
3.18 Faced with the lack of technical personnel capable of dealing with the various aspects
of the Project's development related to the improvement of infrastructure works, CNA
fostered creating and operating a Technical Cooperation Unit (TCU). It undertook direct
sales in accordance with the existing govemment procedures. Over time, the TCU became a
private enterprise dedicated to technical services for rural development.
3.19 In order to deal with environmental problems, IMTA and the Soil Conservation
Service undertook an Agroecological Study of Acapetahua, which related the problems of
erosion and the obstacles it places on infrastructure. Together with the TCU, an
environmental impact evaluation was undertaken of the central region of the Chiapas coasts.
The ample participation of various institutions and social groups led to identifying and
generating consensus about the principal environmental effects of the actual technological
practices in the different physiographic zones. At the request of IMTA, the Southeast
Ecological Research Center (CIES) undertook the Ecogeographic Study of the Acapetahua
Watershed, from which emerged a long term proposal for integrated watershed development.



- 23 -
Neither SEDUE nor subsequently SEDESOL had the expected environmental aspects
intervention since neither was able to receive the additional resources to carry out their tasks.
3.20 The new Agrarian and National Water Laws were promulgated during the final phase
of the Project, which fostered conditions for greater economic, financial and social
participation for the beneficiaries for administering the Project and its benefits.
3.21  In respect to the specialized technical consultant services, its activities had the basic
object of consolidating the process of transferring the resources and functions in order to
achieve a greater efficiency in using available resources and a greater beneficiary
participation. In addition, work has been done in improving production organization, using
sector programs and developing and advising producers primarily in soil and water
conservation practices.
3.22  All the activities were directed at increasing production. Its impact is reflected
favorably in yields increase. This is due to the technology transfers that were tied to
infrastructure works and the agricultural research that developed varieties designed to attain
an optimal production under the region's climate conditions; and which formulated
recommendations as to densities for sowing, fertilizer use, soil preparation practices and the
use of modem agricultural inputs.
3.23 Modifications in soil use were established based on the comparative advantages
territorial improvement offered; as a result, there were no substantial changes in annual
crops; areas with perennial crops, however, were expanded significantly.
4. Results
4.1   The Project's general goals were met. In infrastructure, mainly, 27% more roadside
borders and 79% more roads were built. The Project's impact in relation to the soil use,
production, productivity and employment was improved substantially, influencing decisively
infrastructure construction and the use of methods and work instruments generated in
PRODERITH I to promote producer participation and technology transfer. During the
period analyzed, the area dedicated to agricultural activities increased 10% for 133,000 ha to
146,000 ha. The principal changes were in the surface areas dedicated to beans which
increased 176%, for banana (83%), for mango (335%) and livestock (41%). Crops which
decreased included rice, which decreased by 88%, soya (62%), sorghum (47%) and cacao
(about 19%).
4.2   The territorial improvements that promoted substantial modifications in soil use also
allowed for increases in agricultural area, production and productivity.
4.3   Even when there are no specific data as to Project impact on creating jobs, it may be
inferred that if the agricultural limits increased by 10% and that soil use intensified, then
there was a favorable impact.
Infrastructure construction and the means to promote producers' participation also influenced
installing public services for producers' social welfare in the Project area.



- 24 -
5. Conclusions and Recommendations
5.1   In light of the results obtained, Project execution constitutes a success both in its
contribution to national production as well as in its favorable effects on beneficiaries' income
and in employment generation. It is very important to continue complementary activities that
would permit Project consolidation.
5.2   The actions designed to commit user participation towards corresponding
infrastructure maintenance must be reinforced. The annual program for operations and
maintenance should be applied, avoiding postponing conservation and instead, seeking normal
conservation.
5.3   Specialized technical consulting services must be continued, in all their productive
aspects, with the aim of obtaining more profitable agricultural activities which would provide
greater benefits to the producers (who would administer and cover the costs of technical
consulting).
5.4   Environmental impact monitoring should be continued and strengthened and
preventive and corrective measures should be implemented that would allow for a sustainable
agricultural development.
5.5   Project experience should be applied to new development zones in the State of
Chiapas, throughout the nation and in other countries.



- 25 -
PART mII: SUMMAY OF STATISTICAL 1 IFORMATION



- 26 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of    l
Approval and
Loan Title         Purpose            Amount            Status                  Comrnents
PRODERITH I   Tropical agricultural  1978, for US$56  Completed       Successful project with follow up
development         mrillion                         (PRODERITH II) under implementation.
PCR No. 5997 was issued in December,
1985
Chiapas         Rural Roads          1985, for        Completed       95 % of loan amount canceled in 1988
Rural Roads                          USS22.0 million                  GOM did not follow sub-project
selection or processing priorities as
agreed with the Bank, and because GOM
priorities changed from the rural roads
priorities as identified in preparation.
PCR No. 9406 was issued in March 1,
1991
PROCATI         Agriculture          1986, for US$20  Completed       PCR No. 13157 was issued on June 15,
development and     million                          1994.
extension
PRODERITH II  Second tropical        1986, for        Under           Budget problems; loan amount is now
agricultural        US$109 million   implementation  US$88.3 million after cancellation.
development                                          Expected Closing Date is December 31,
1995.
First           Support reform of    1988, for        Closed in 1990  Operation completed successfully; PCR
Agricultural    agricultural policies   US$300 million                issued June 15, 1993
Sector Adjust.
Regional        Assist the GOM's    1991, for         Under           No major problems; follow up project
Decentralization  poverty program in    US$350 million   implementation  being prepared.
and             the four poorest
Development    agricultural states
Second          Support continuing    1991, for       Completed       Successfully completed. PCR sent to
Agricultural    reform of agricultural US$400 million                 OED on June 29, 1994.
Sector Adjust.   policies
Irrigation and  Support irrigation and  1991, for     Under           Budgetary difficulties but no other major
Drainage Sector  drainage investment   US$400 million   implementation  problem.
Agricultural    Agricultural research   1992, for     Under           Significant budgetary problems.
Technology      and extension        US$150 million   implementation
On Farm and    Irrigation            1994, for        Approved by    Awaiting effectiveness.
Minor Irrigation  infrastructure     US$200 million   the Board on
Networks        improvements                          February
Improvement                                           17,1994
Rainfed Areas    Improve agriculture   Proposed USS 85  Approved by    Awaiting signing.
Development     productivity         million loan     the Board on
amount           July 12, 1994



- 27 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 2. LOAN DATA
(US$ millions)
Original  Canceled Disbursed          Repaid  Outstanding
90        32       58                 31.4    28.8
(as of July 1994)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Original Dates     Actual or Re-estimated Dates
Regional Study                    December 1981             16 August 1982
Identification                     September 1982          20 September 1982
Preparation                       July 1983                20 July 1983
Appraisal                         Feb/March 1984           March 1984
Loan Negotiations                 February 1985            25 February 1985
Board Approval                    April 1985               30 April 1985
Loan Signature                    July 1985                 16 July 1985
Loan Effectiveness                 15 October 1985         4 April 1986
Project Completion                 31 March 93             31 Dec 93
Loan Closing                       31 March 93             31 Dec 93
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and Division Black Books
Comments at each stage of project cycle
Identification:                   No special comments
Preparation:                       No important delays
Appraisal:                        No important delays
Effectiveness:                    Delays due to participating agencies' difficulties in signing a
coordination agreement and as a result of lost documents during
earthquake
Closing date:                     The closing date was extended once, from March 31, 1993 to
December 31, 1993 because of disbursement delays



- 28 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 2. LOAN DATA (continued)
Project Schedule
Quarter                                             2 3 4         E
Year        1982       1983    1984      1985     1986    1987/92  1993
Identification
Preparation                                    3
Appraisal Mission
Negotiations
Board Approval                                                  3
Signature Date                                                      3
Date of Effectiveness                                                   >>I
Completion Date                                                                            T>>>>>
Closing Date                                                                                  >>>I
Year       1982     1983      1984     1985      1986    1987/92    1993
Quarter    i2 3           ff41f11i131411121314
Scheduled:                     Slippage:  > > > >                 Actual:  X



- 29 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 3. CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank FY            1986    1987   1988,  1989       1990     1991      1992     1993    1994
(i) Appraisal estimate      7.5    18.0   32.0   46.0        61.0     77.0      85.5     90.0    90.0
(ii) Estimate minus
previous FYs cancellations  7.5    18.0   32.0   24.0        29.0     45.0      53.5     58.0    58.0
(iii) Actual                6.2 '   9.0    14.0    16.7      18.2     27.0      34.6     49.8    58.0
(iv) Actual as % of (i)     83      50      44      36       30        35       40       55       64
(v) Actual as % of (ii)     83      50      44      70       63        60       65       86       100
1/ US$22.0 million were canceled from the Loan on June 20, 1988.
2/ US$10.0 million were canceled from the Loan on August 10, 1988.
3/ Including US$ for retroactive financing of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1984 for civil works and
after January 1, 1985 for incremental salaries for research and extension staff.



- 30 -
MEEaCO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loean 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(USS Millions)
Total Project Cost                       Loan Amount                                    __________
Planned                   Actual                    Revised at                Percent of Total     Actual Loan
Category             Amount                   as a % of      Planned    cancellation               Project Cost to be   Amount as a    1
(estinate)    Actual      Planned       Amount        in 1988       Actual   Financed by Loan       Actuial Coas |
(1)        (2)           (3)           (4)           (5)          (6)             (7)                (a)
I. Civil Works for Dikes,        82.9        62.06        75%           58.0            44.3       44.0           70%                71%
Drains, Roads, Buildings
and Soil Conservation,
including Engineering
Designs                                                              _          _
2. Goods including               20.0          3.22       16%            11.0             5.1        2.4    90% of local and          75%
Equipment, Materials,                                                                                          100% of FE
Spare Parts and Vehicles
3. Consultant Services,           5.0          7.2       144%            5.0              5.5        6.6          100%               92%
Studies and Trasining                                                                            _       _
4. Incremental Salaries for      18.3          9.92      54.2%            7.0             3.1        5.0        10O% until            50%
Research and Extension                                                                                          6/30/87;
Staff                                                                                                           50% until
6/30/89;
and 25%
thereafter
(changed to
100%
_________   _________________________          ________      on   11/15/89)    _   _ _ _ _  _ _
5. UnaBocated                    55.4!'                                  9.0
6. CanceBation                                                                          32.0       32.0Y
7. Special Account
TOTAL               181.6        82.40      45.4%           90.00           90.0       90.0
So.e: SAR CNA, Bsk Eaxtst-
Y Drcrp.cy botween SAR txt Rad smounLr per finocing of disbusemebnt cstegonm.



- 31 -
MEICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE S. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS
Component      II                Indicator                 | Appraisal        Revised       Ftl        Percent   Percent of
Co    nr            usco                          IdctrEtmt                                            I            I toof revised Iappraisal
Dikes          Flood control dikes                             350 km        571 km        445          7S         127
Roads          Service roads construction and rehabilitation   775 km       1671 km       1390          83          179
INFRASTRUCTURE   Drains               Prirnary and secondary drains                  600 km        1101 km       614          56          102
Structures     Auxiliary structures (fords, bridges, culverts,  300                        300         100          100
s sediment traps and crossings)                                                       _ _ _
Field Offices   Field offices to provide office space. storage   6               7           3         43           50
and staff housing: 2 in the coastal subproject
areas and I in each of the 4 central
depression subprojecl areas                                                                      _    _
Workshops      Buildings for workshops, staff housing, and       6                           3                      50
equipment and spare parts storage                                                                          l
ADMINISTRATION                      l[
AND OPERATION         Equipment      Equipment to operate and maintain the road    52 mnachines                    13                      25
for            network, drainage and dike systems and
infrastructure  structures
maintenance
Vehicles       Vehicles for construction (37 pick-ups) and      112                        112                      100
production operations (75 pick-ups and 240     4-wheel                   4-wheel
motorcycles)                                   vehicles                  vehicles
ON-FARM               Medium and   Investment for on-farm development               100,000 ha                 100,000                    100
DEVELOPMENT           Long-term      Land learing                                   50,000 ha                      0                        0
Credit         Ladcern5000h                                                            _____              =
Extension      Increase number of extension staff               571                         99                       17
Research      Improve research stations (Rosario Izapa,       3 stations                     3                      100
Centro y Costa de Chiapas)                l                l          l_l_l
AGRICULTURE           Training       Extension staff                                   1200                      1200                     100
SUPPORT                              Courses in farmer organization, improved      3000 farmerl                   NA                      NA
SERVICES                             production techniques, and maintenance of
drainage infrastructure
Fellowships for intensive local or overseas  12 mnan-years                  12                      100
training                                  l                l          l _l_l_l
______                                                                                  _-                                         =



- 32 -
MEXICO
CIIIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTAITON TARGETS (Cont.)
Componsent    ][Subs:tr                         Indicator                  Status at SAR            Status at Project CompIeton
Basic anBa si c        and Feasibility studies on 205,000 ha of  Completed
feasibility   the 255,000 in the coastal area
STUDIES               studies in th[ Studies for 50,000 remaining ha in Tapachula              Completed
Project Area
Studies for 55,000 ha in central depression  Completed
and 7,500 in Los Altos
Monitoring    Monitoring of water table                                  Not carried out
of the Water
Table and    l
Ground        Ground water study in project area as well as              Monitoring of water quality completed in 1992
Water         in areas of future development to determine
Surveying     the availability of and quality of water for
domestic consumption and supplementary
irrigation
Survey of the  Hydrological and topographical surveys of                 Will not be carried out
Coastal       the coastal lagoons and adjacent permanent
Lagoons       wetland areas
Monitoring    Monitor and evaluate the effect on the water               Will not be carried out
and           table of drainage and river control on the
Evaluation of  Coast with respect to design of infrastructure
the Drainage   and effect on crop production, particularly
System        the second cycle crop
Soil surveys   Soil surveys to determine overall                         Will not be carried out
reclassification of soils for future optimum
land use planning                         _       _
Chiapas Pre-   Pre-investment studies on the more of                     Completed for 612,000 ha (260,000 ha under the
Investment    600,000 ha under the project and 300,000                   project)
Studies for    additional ha
Future
Development
Environment   Environmental impact studies of                            Environmental Audit by Center for Ecological
al and        infrastructure program and changes in                      Research of the Southeast (CIES) ongoing.
Socioeconom   cropping system
ic Impact     Socioeconomic studies to deternmine project                Will not be carried out
Review        impact on employment, income, migration of
labor and the changes in production systems
Marketing     Study to improve marketing system, focusing                Not carried out, with Bank's agreement
Study         on storage.
Source: SAR, CNA and SARH 1993



- 33 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6. PROJECT BENEFITS
A. PROJECT IMPACT ON RAINFED CROP YIELDS
(Tons/Ha)
COASTAL AREAS                        DEPRESSION
SAR      TARGET    ACTUAL          SAR       TARGET    ACTUAL
estimate                           estimate
OUTPUT         (W/O
Project)
Maize          1.5-2.0       3.0         3.0        2.1         4.0         4.0
Beans            0.6         1.2         1.2        0.8         1 2         0.8
Sorghum          NA         NA           4.7        NA          NA          3.5
Rice             NA          3.5         4.5        NA          NA          NA
Cotton           NA          NA          NA         NA          NA          2.3
Soybean          NA          2.5         1.8        NA          NA          NA
Sesame           NA          1.2         0.7        NA          NA          0.8
Groundnut        NA          2.0         NA         NA          NA           1.7
Tobacco          1.0         1.8         1.6        NA          NA          NA
Sugarcane        NA         NA          72.0        NA          NA          NA
Bananas          NA          NA         34.7        NA          NA          NA
Cocoa            NA          NA          0.7        NA          NA          NA
Papaya           NA         NA          29.5        NA          NA          NA
Mango            NA         NA          10.1        NA          NA           8
Melons           NA         NA           7.2        NA          NA          9.6
Watermelon       NA          1.5        11.0        NA          NA          13.4
Oranges          NA          NA           5          30         NA          NA
Tomatoes         NA          NA         9.52        NA          NA          14.8
SOURCE: SAR, CNA 1993 and Table 6 B.



MEXICo
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan 2526-HX)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6: PROJECT BENEFITS
B: LAND USE AND PRODUCTION RESULTS
(a) Total Project Area
CROP                            AREA ( '000 HAS)I            I Yield               PRODUCTIONS (TONS)                I Price           PRODUCTION VALUES (Mex$000)
changes                                                 chanes                           _
1985          1993        I change   over 1985         1985           1993        I chiange   over 1985        1985           1993       I change
'1AIZE                    53,905        54,845             2            40     111,553          159,319           43           -22       119,544       133,853            12
BEANS                      2,303         6,377           177            -8        1,914           4,897          156            -5         4,526        10,959          142
SORGHUM                      745            398         -47             33        2,161           1,534          -29           -58         2,481           736          -70
RICE                         472             56         -88            101        1,058             252          -76            17           975           272          -72
COTTON                        30             20         -33             23           56              46          -18           104            80           134           68
SOYBEANS                  21,917         8,264          -62             -6      41,892          14,878           -64           -21        52,874        14,752          -72
SESAME                     2,400         3,120            30            12        1,513          2,206            46            19         2,708         4,714           74
GROUNDNUTS                   231           823          256             37          293           1,433          389           -15           701         2,915          316
TABACCO                    1,654         1,962            19             3        2,647           3,236           22           143         8,993        26,699          197     W
SUGARCANE                  6,957         7,338             5            13     445,248         528,336            19           -59       86,456        41,558           -52       _
BANANAS                    7,464        13,669           83           0.5      257,808         474,431            84           -14      200,239       315,764            58
COCOA                      9,574         7,763          -19             -4       7,781           6,032          -22            -62       75,543        21,980           -71
PAPAYA                       250           674          170             64       4,500          19,890          342             52         1,966       13,238           573
MANGO                      2,645        11,511          335             34      20,021         116,347          481            -51       24,866        70,804           185
MELONS                     1,288           842          -35              9       8,520           6,077          -29             41         5,916         5,960            1
WATERMELONS                2,573         1,406          -45            -13      32,807          15,651          -52            143        17,464        20,268           16
ORANGES                        0           250          n.a.          n.a.            0          1,250          n.a.          n.a.             0           756          n.a.
TOMATOES                       0           740          n.a.          n.a.            0         10,847          n.a.          n.a.             0         5,637          n.a.
TOTAL CROPS              114,408       120,058             5            39     939,772       1,366,722            45          -22       605,332       690,999            14
LIVESTOCK                 18,455        26,116           42             88      21,197          56,366          166           -24        22,872        46,519           103
TOTAL                    132,863       146,174            10            35     960,969       1,423,088            48           -21      628,204       737,518            17
Basic Grains              57,425        61,676             7            33     116,686         166,062            42          -20       127,526       145,820            14
Oil+Tobacco               26,232        14,189          -46            -13      46,401          21,799           -53            60       65,356        49,214           -25
Trad. Perenn.             23,995        28,770            20            18     710,837       1,008,799            42           -26      362,238       379,302             5
rruits/Veget.              6,756        15,423          128             13      65,848         170,062          158           -10        50,212       116,663           132
Sources: SAR, CNA, and SARH



MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan 2526-MX)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6: PROJECT BENEFITS
B: LAND USE AND PRODUCTION RESULTS
(b) Coastal Project Area
CROP                           AREA ('000 HAS)              W Yield             PRODUCTIONS (TONS)                I Price          PRODUCTION VALUES (MexS000)
changes                                               changes
1985          1993       I change   over 1985        1985           1993       * change   over 1985         1985           1993      i change
MAIZE                    31,720        25,348          (20)           31      74,143          77,707            5            (5)      69,095        69,148            0
BEANS                        341            23         (93)           62         256              28          (89)          (34)         497            36          (93)
SORGHUM                        0          113          +100            0            0            536          +100           0             0           242         +100
RICE                        472             56         (88)          101       1,058             252          (76)           17          975           272          (72)
COTTON                         0             0            -            0            0              0             -            0            0             0             -
SOYBEANS                 21,917         8,264          (62)           (6)     41,892          14,818          (64)         (21)       52,874        14,752          (72)
SESAME                    2,383         3,110           31            12       1,502           2,198           46           20         2,676         4,695           75
GROUNDNUTS                     0             0            -            0            0              0             -            0            0             0             -
TABACCO                   1,654         1,962           19             3       2,647           3,236           22          143         8,993        26,699          197      W
SUGARCANE                 6,957         7,338            5            13     445,248         528,336           19           (59)      86,456        41,558          (52)
BANANAS                   7,464        13,669           83             0    257,808          474,431           84          (14)      200,239       315,764           58
COCOA                     9,574         7,763          (19)           (4)      7,781           6,032          (22)         (62)       75,543        21,980          (71)
PAPAYA                      250           674          170            64       4,500          19,890         342            52         1,966        13,238         573
MANGO                     2,599        11,326          336            33      19,837         114,867          479           (50)      24,074        69,501         189
MELONS                    1,161           822          (29)            9       7,646           5,885          (23)           66        4,452         5,695           28
WATERMELONS               2,410         1,351          (44)          (15)     31,330          14,916          (52)         167        15,204        19,298           27
ORANGES                        0          250          n.a.          n.a.           0          1,250         n.a.          n.a.            0           756         n.a.
TOMATOES                       0            25         n.a.          n.a.           0            238          n.a.         n.a.            0           237         n.a.
TOTAL CROPS              88,902        82,094           (8)           53    895,648       1,264,680            41           (21)     543,044       603,871           11
LIVESTOCK                 2,276         1,862          (18)           77       5,326           7,704           45          (21)        4,963         5,673          14
TOTAL                    91,178        83,956           (8)           53     900,974      1,272,384            41          (21)     548,007        609,544           11
Basic Grains             32,533        25,540          (21)           33      75,457          78,523            4            (5)     70,567         69,698           (1)
Oil+Tobacco              25,954        13,336          (49)          (14)     46,041          20,312          (56)          62        64,543        46,146          (29)
Trad. Perenn.            23,995        28,770           20            18    710,837       1,008,799            42           (26)    362,238        379,302            5
Fruits/Veget.             6,420        14,448          125            10      63,313        157,046          148            (4)      45,696       108,725          138
Sources:   SAR, CNA, and SARH



HEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
(Loan 2526-MX)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6: PROJECT BENEFITS
B: LAND USE AND PRODUCTION RESULTS
(c) Central Depresslon Project Ared
CROP                            AREA ('000 HAS)               t Yield               PRODUCTIONS  (TONS)                 t Price           PRODUCTION VALUES (Mex5OOO)
changes                                                  changes
1985           1993       I change    over 1985         1985           1993        t change    over 1985         1985           1993        t change
MAIZE                     22, 185        29,497            33            64       37,410          81,672           118            (41)      50,449         64,705           28
BEANS                       1,962         6,354           224            (9)       1,658           4,869           194             (8)       4,029         10,923          171
SORGHUM                       745           285           (62)           21        2,161              998          (54)          (57)        2,481            494          (80)
RICE                            0              0             -            0             0               0             _             0             0             0              -
COTTON                         30             20          (33)           23            56              46          (18)          104             80           134            68
SOYBEANS                        0              0             -            0             0               0             -            0              0             0              -
SESAME                         17             10          (41)           24            11               8          (27)          (18)            32            19          (41)
GROUNDNUTS                    231           823           256            37          293           1,433           389           (15)           701         2,915          316
TABACCO                         0              0             -            0             0               0             -            0              0             0              -
SUGARCANE                       0              0             -            0             0               0             -            0              0             0              -
BANANAS                         0             0              -            0             0               0             -            0              0             0              -
COCOA                           0              0             -            0             0               0             -            0              0             0              -
PAPAYA                          0             0              -            0             0               0             -            0              0             0             -
MANGO                          46           185          302            100          184           1,480           704           (80)          792          1,303           65
MELONS                        127            20           (84)           39          874              192          (78)          (18)        1,464            265          (82)
WATERMELONS                   163            55           (66)           47        1,477              735          (50)          (14)        2,260            970          (57)
ORANGES                         0              0             -            0             0               0             -            0              0             0             -
TOMATOES                        0           715          n.a.           n.a.            0         10,609          n.a.           n.a.             0        5,400           +100
TOTAL CROPS               25,506         37,964            49            55       44,124         102,042           131           (40)       62,288        87,128            40
LIVESTOCK                 16,179         24,254            50           105       15,871          48,662           207           (26)       17,909        40,846           128
TOTAL                     41,685         62,218            49            68       59,995         150,704           151           (36)       80,197       127,974            60
Basic Grains              24,892         36,136            45            46       41,229          87,539           112           (37)       56,959        76,122            34
Oll+Tobacco                   278           853          207             35          360           1,487           313            (9)          813         3,068           277
Trad. Perenn.                   0              0            0             0             0               0            0             0              0             0            0
Fruits/Veget.                 336           975          190             77        2,535          13,016           413           (66)        4,516         7,938            76
Sources: SAR, CNA, and SARH



- 37 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6. PROJECT BENEFITS
C. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
NPVs per hectare 1984 and 1993!'
FARM MODELS          | SAR Estimates (1984) 1 PCR Estimates (1993W
Coastal Ejido Crop (8 ha)          295                   1,346
Coastal Ejido Mixed              92                     450
Crop/Livestock (130 ha)
Private Coastal Crop (20           37                     580
ha)
Central Depression Ejido           70                     -35
Crop (7 ha)
SOURCE: SAR, CNA 1993
1 / At 12 % discount rate.
2/ PCR Estimates are based on actual productivity changes, assurning all other variables
remain as in the original farm models



- 38 -
MEXICO
CIIIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6. PROJECT BENEFITS
D. AREA DEVELOPMENT
SAR ESTIMATE (1984)
l________  _________                       GOM                             ACTUAL AS
lefo           Araf      l l         REVISED             ACTUAL            % OF
AREA             Area for         r Deve lopment        (1991)              (1992)        REVISED
Tapachula             98,500                                 60,000             37,077            62
Huixtla               56,000                                60,000              47,902            80
Acapetahua            63,000                                60,000              57,161            95
Las Margaritas        37,500                                60,000              10,725            18
Sub-Total             255,000          90,0002'             240,000             152,865           64
Coastal Area
Comitan               32,000           32,000               32,000              19,000            59
Suchiapa               8,000            8,000                15,000              9,900            66
San Miguel 1I          8,000            8,000                13,000             10,120            78
Margenes de                                                 Canceled               -
Grijalva               7,000            7,000       _                         _            _
Sub-Total             62,500           62,500              60,000 3/            39,020            65
Central
Depression
Los Altos             7,500             7,500              Canceled         |            |
Sub-Total      j       7,500     |      7,500              Canceled                -
Central Plateau  ||               I _                                       l             l                 l
TOTAL                 317,500    |    152,500    |         300,0004/        |  191,885   |        64
SOURCE: SAR and CNA 1993.
1/ Included only river control dikes, roads and improved extension.
2/ 90,000 ha (out of the 255,000 ha) to be selected focusing on ejidos and smallholder farmers (not including Las Margaritas), to be
fully developed with drains and on-farm works for intensive crop and livestock production.
3/ 48,000 ha in Part 11.
4! 288,000 ha in Part 11.



- 39 -
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 6. PROJECT BENEFITS
F. AREA DEVELOPMENT BY TYPE OF LAND USE
(has)
LAND USE        SAR ESTIMATE (1984) |         ACTUAL                    ACTUAL
(1985)                       (1993)
ACTUAL    TARGET  |
COASTAL
AREA
Crops             81,000      117,000            88,902                    82,094
Livestock        159,000      123,000            114,408                  120,058
Other            15,0000      15,000              n/a                       n/a
Sub-Total        255,0009     255,000             91,178                   83,956
CENTRAL
DEPRESSION
AREA
Crops             33,000      45,000             25,506                    37,964
Livestock         15,500      10,000             16,179                   24,254
Other             6,500         nil               n/a                       n/a
Sub-Total         55,000       55,500            41,685                    62,218
Crops             3,750       7,500              2,276                     1,862
Livestock                       nil              18,455                    26,116
Others            3,750         nil               na
TOTAL             317,500     317,500            132,863                   146,174
SOURCE: SAR, SARH and CNA 1993.
8. Included only river control dikes, roads and improved extension



MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE 7. Status of Legal Covenants
Cove-              Original         Revised
nant                Fulfiltment    Fulfillent
Agreement    Section        Type    Status   Date               Date            Description of Covenant                                     Comments
Loan No.      2.02 (b)    F          OK                                         The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project,            Done
2526-ME                                                                         open and thereafter maintain in dollars, a Special
Account on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into and payments out of the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of ScheduLe 3 to this Agreement.
4.01         F         OK        6/30/93         08/30/93         The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account,           Done
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent qualified auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in                                              o
any case not later than six months after the end
of each year, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shaLl have reasonably
requested; (iii) furnish to the Bank monthly
certified statements of the Special Account; and
(iv) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the Special Account and the audit
thereof as the Bank shalt reasonably request.
Guarantee    3.01           M        OK                                         The Guarantor declares its commitment to the                In compliance
objectives of the Project as set forth in ScheduLe
1 to the Loan Agreement. ("Due diligence
covenant")
Guarantee    3.02 (a)    M           OK                                         The Guarantor shaLl: (i) enter into the                     Done
contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 of the Loan Agreement with the Borrower; and
(i) not later than September 30, 1985, furnish to
the Bank a certified copy of the coordinating
agreement between the Guarantor and the State
pursuant to articles 69 and 93 of the CUD.



PEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFNT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COWLET ION REPORT
TABLE 7.  Status of Legal Coveats (Cant.)
Cove-              Original        Revised
nant               Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement    Section    Type    Status   Date                 Date                           Description of Covenant                            Comments
3.04 (a)    T         OK                                        Not Later than December 1, 1986 and every year              Done
thereafter, the Guarantor shall, through SARH (i)
prepare and furnish to the Bank the execution
program for the infrastructure works described in
Part A of the Project to be carried out during the
following calendar year; and (ii) exchange views
with the Bank on such program..
3.04 (b)    T         OK                                        The Guarantor, through SARH, shall follow criteria    No new areas are
acceptable to the Bank in the programming of the           programmed since
areas within the State to be developed under the           US$32 million were
Project, such criteria to include, inter alia,             canceled from the
that (i) the area to be developed would benefit            Loan.
primarily small-scale farmers; and (ii) the area
is technically and economically feasible for
development of agricultural production.
3.04 (c)    T         RVS                                       The Guarantor undertakes that production support            Agriculture
services, when required, are or will be available          extension not
in a timely manner for the areas programmed for            provided
development in accordance with paragraph (b) of            adequately due to
this section.                                              SARH scaling down
its extension
services.
3.05         T        SOON                                      The Guarantor shall: (i) by December 31, 1987,             Done, late in
carry out a review of the construction and                 1992; road and
maintenance practices regarding rural roads in the   drain maintenance
State under the jurisdiction of SCT and SARH, with    policy outline due
a view to further rationalizing rural roads                by April 30, 1994.
designs, specifications, construction methods and          Follow up in
maintenance practices, and assessment of                   PRODERITH II
maintenance responsibilities between agencies, and
(ii) exchange views with the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations of such review.



EXICO
CHIAPAS AGRIaJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2526-ME)
PROJECT COtPLETION REPORT
TABLE 7. Status of Legal Covernats (Cont.)
Cove-             Original        Revised
nant              Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Agreement    Section    Type    Status   Date               Date                         Description of Covenant                         Comments
3.06        T        SOON                      (ii)           The Guarantor shall (i) furnish to the Bank by          (i)  Done
05/31/94       July 31, 1988, the study included under Part E (d)   (ii) An
of the Project (state storage requirement); and         envirownmental
ecno review, on a periodic basis, the socio-            audit of project
economic and envirorunental impact of the Project,    activities to be
carried out
before. Follow up
in PROMERITH 11.
3.07        T        OK                                      Unless the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise    User associations
agree, the Guarantor shall recover upon completion   for O&M are being
of all infrastructure works included in each            formed, some
particular area within the Project, the costs of        equipment has been
operation and maintenance, as well as, to the           procured and
extent feasible, the investment cost of such            transferred to
works,                                                  user association.
O&M experiment
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                       ___________________   _____________________________      u nderway .
4.01 (a)    F        OK                                      The Guarantor shall maintain a cause to be               Done
(b)                                                     maintained adequate records and accounts of the
(c)                                                     departments or agencies of the Guarantor
responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof; and have the audit report submitted
to the Bank not Later than six months at the end
of the fiscaL year, inctluding a separate audit
opinion on statements of expenditures.
Key
Covenant type:            Status:
E       Economic          ACT      Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
F       Financial         NYD      Not yet due
M       Managerial        OK       Covenant complied with
T       Technical         RVS      Needs to be revised
SOON    Compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 43 -
NXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMIET PROJECT
(Loan 2526-IE)
PROJECT COMLETION REPORT
TABLE 8. USE OF STAFF RESOJRCES
TRS               Managing      Staff        Staff     Staff                                                Staff
FY     Task        Division     Division     Typo      Number    Last Namn         Specialty    TRS Month  Weeks
BANKIIFC - REGULAR BUDGET (BB)
82     LENP        LA2NR        LA2NR        H         DCF                                          12         .1
EGR                                         12          .0
* Subtotal LENP                                                                                       ,1
Total 32                                                                                                   .1I
83     LENP        LA2NR        LA2NR        H         AGR                                          12         .4
ECN                         ECONOMIST    12             .1
EGR                                         12         12.1
* Subtotal LENP                                                                                      12.6
Total 83                                                                                                  12.6
84     LENA       LA2NR         LA2NR        A         ETA                                         12           2.0
OPA                                         12          1.6
C         EGR                                         12          4.9
ENS                                         12          4.2
H         AGR                                         12          8.2
ECN                         ECONOMIST    12             9.1
EGR                                         12          10.4
* Subtotal LENA                                                                                      40.5
LENP       LA2NR         LA2NR       C          EGR                                         12          2.1
ENS                                                                                         12          2.7
AGR                                         12          3.7
DCF                                                                                         12          .7
EGR                                                                                         12          3.3
LVS                                                                                         12          .1
LEGLA       H         XXX                                          12          .1
* Subtotal LENP                                                                                      17.6
Total 84                                                                                                   58.0
85     LENA       LA2NR         LA2NR        A         ETA                                          12          2.3
OPA                                                                                         12          .2
H         AGR                                         12          .3
ECN                         ECONOMIST    12             .5
EGR                                         12          3.3
* Subtotal LENA                                                                                       6.5
LENN       LA2NR         LA2NR        A         ETA                                         12          .6
H         AGR                                         12           .0
S5     LENN        LA2NR        LA2NR        H         ECN                         ECONOMIST    12              .6
EGR                                         12          4.2



- 44 -
TRS                  Managing       Staff         Staff       Staff                                                     Staff
FY      Task         Division       Division      Type        Number       Last Name         Specialty     TRS Month  Weeks
* Subtotal LENN                                                                                                3
SPN         LA2NR           LA2NR         H                                          EGR           12             .9
Total 85                                                                                                            12.8
86      SPN          LA2NR          LA2NR         C           AP5155                                       12             .6
H          03627        Downing                         12             7.6
* Subtotal SPN                                                                                                 8.2
Total 86                                                                                                             8.2
87      SPN          LA2NR          LA2NR         H           03627        Downing                         12             .5
05883       WIson                            12             .1
11057       Roel                             12            2.9
12202       Bulletr                          12            4.9
17094       Wittenberg                       12            2.1
PRESV         H          16427        Ochs                             12            4.9
* Subtotal SPN                                                                                                14
Total 87                                                                                                            14
88      SPN          LA2NR          LATAG         H           03627        Downing                         12             2.6
LATEN         H          09421        Plaza                            12            2.7
LA2NR         H          07672        Von Pogrell                      12            6.8
12202       Buller                           12            3
12440       Binswanger                       12             .6
- Subtotal SPN                                                                                                18.0
Total 88                                                                                                            18.0
89      SPN          LA2NR          LATEN         H          09421         Plaza                           12             1
10370       Goodland                         12             .1
17953       Davis                            12             .0
LA2NR         H                                                       12             .0
07672        Von Pogrell                     12             7.9
12202       BULLER                           12            2.0
Subtotal SPN                                                                                                11
Total 89                                                                                                            11
90      SPN          LA2NR          LATEN         H           09421        Plaza                           12             .0
LA2NR         H          07672        Von Pogrell                     12             5
* Subtotal SPN                                                                                                 5
Total 90                                                                                                             5
91      SPN          LA2NR          FAOS3         F                                                        12             .0
LATEN         H          09421        Plaza                           12             .0
LA2NR         H                                                        12            .0
07672       Von Pogrell                      12            7.1
21820       Margulis                         12             1.8
* Subtotal SPN                                                                                                 8.9
Total 91                                                                                                             8.9
92      SPN          LA2NR          ENVLW         H           02004       Villmran                         12             1.2
LA2NR         C                                                       12             .0
H          07672        Von Pogrell                     12            11.3
10976       Sallier                          12            4.0
LA2MX         H          01323        McCarthy                        12             .4
Subtotal SPN                                                                                                16.9
Total 92                                                                                                            16.9



- 45 -
TRS                 Managing       Staff         Staff      Staff                                                   Staff
FY      Task        Division       Division      Type      Number       Last Name         Specialty    TRS Month  Weeks
93      SPN         LA2NR          LA2NR         C                                                      12            .0
H                                                     12             .0
10976       Sallier                         12           6.8
12331       Cackler                        12             .0
15348       Bronkhorst                     12            7.2
20183       Mcintire                        12            .0
* Subtotal SPN                                                                                             14.0
Total 93                                                                                                        14.0
94      PCR         LA2NR          LA2NR         H          10976       Sallier                         1             .2
2             .9
4             .4
12            .0
11839       Shaw                            3             .0
4            1.4
5             .5
7             .6
8            1.4
9            1.8
12            .3
15348       Bronkhorst                      4             .6
5             .6
7             .4
8             ,2
12            .0
- Subtotal PCR                                                                                             9.5
SPN         LA2NR          AGRNR        H           16427       Ochs                           12             .0
LATEN        H          09421        Plaza                           4            1.3
12            .0
LA2NR        H          10976        Sallier                        12             .0
11839       Shaw                           12             .0
94      SPN         LA2NR          LA2NR         H          12331       Cackler                         12            .0
15348       Bronkhorst                      1             .2
2             .2
3             .3
6             .2
12            .0
* Subtotal SPN                                                                                             2.2
Total 94                                                                                                        11.7
TOTAL BB                                                                                                        197.2
TOTAL 6MXCPA085                                                                                                    197.2
* Subtotal PCR                                                                                             4.7
IDTRSOI FOCEXEC - Rundate 07/15/94; Actual data as of 07/15/94.
Type of Staff: H = Higher Level, C - Consultant, A - Assistant, L   Local Staff,
K = Local Cona., S = Special Pos., F = FAO.






iBRD  18236
=..                                          A0,          -'                                                            N              .-                                          90                    MAY 195A
MEXICO
CHIAPAS AGRICULTURAL
I ,    ,    ;              DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Chiaq2is Plan
Bank F,,,onced Pro)ect Areas
-                                                                                         __                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other Protect Areas
--  Roads Under Construction
Rood Surface
-Pa-ed
Grovel
_-                                                     ( I    Stale Capit
/  V /       QU0>.             -\                                   -         A                                         |                    \                   C      Sele0cted Ct,es and Towns
Rivers
-    V-  Sta-  o-o ores        ,es
AC
/ _ ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~>-< )>./ ~~~~~~~~~G    U    A    T    E   M                                                        A    t   A                           20      ,C               orc    I x
C                                                                                                                                                                                           -U5 ; ) .0  20               t0 8o
TPAC-A COT.                                                                                      ... _ *                                                                                                 UNITED  STATES OF AMERICA
0 LaGUNAS 0D CAPETA.LA
aAS ARGORTITAr 
t  ALLE DE COWTAN
6 SUCOIArA-SANTA DOM-NGO
7 AAGENES DEL anIJALnA
5 S NMIGUEL Ii 
9 ALTOS SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS CASASI      v Cg  ,      ;                                           '          -           A                                                                                                    '.G
CESCCS EGsO
C-IMALA,A-CHtCArA                              -   X        (  _O                                                                                                                                              MEXICO
TEAPA-TAcOTALCA ;
LAS MARGARITAS-RIO STO. DDUINGO                                                                  \.-- O                                                                                        Cr.,GO
SAN VicENT - CAnRONEnA                                                                                      E                                                                                                           A. 
TUZANTAN ZONA ALTA,-~--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AfZ
CINT.TL.AC*
54                    Pr                                           nr                                                                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  imi.ova~~~~~~~~~~97



