Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rpwt No. P-4093-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 176.0 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KERALA POWER PROJECT
May 22, 1985
This docinmuat bao a reod dirkdh  ad way be wed by redpIe.Is im the pelfmme f
troMdaI dudin Its cmemoub =y not uthewis e  ".ldoead withu World Bamk muihoslzadom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 20, 1985)
US$1.00        = Rs 12.317
Rs 1.00        = US$0.0812
Bs 1 million   =  US*81,200
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.0.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronvrns
CEA    -   Central Electricity Authority
CiAG   -   Controller and Auditor General of India
CWC    -   Central Water Commission
GOI   -   Government of India
GOK    -   Government of Kerala
IBRD   -   International Bank for Reconstruction ana Development
IDA    -   International Development Association
KSEB   -   Kerala State Electricity Board
LRMC   -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
NHPC   -   National Hydroelectric Pover Corporation
NPP    -   National Power Plan
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
REB    -   Regional Electricity Boara
SEB    -   State Electricity Board
SBPS   -   Southern Region Power System
lOE    -   Tons of oil equivalent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KERAlIA POWEL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:            Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB).
Amount:                 US$176 million.
Terms:                  Repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace,
at the applicable rate of interest.
Relending Terms:        Government of India (GOL) to Government of Kerala
(GOK)  As part of Central assistance to States for
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
GOK to KSEB:  (a)  Bank loan:  Repayment over 20
years, including five years  grace, at GOK*s interest
rate applicable at the time (currencly 13.5% per
annum) for its lenaing to KSEB, not less than the
current Bank interest rate of 9.29% per annum; (b)
GOK loan:  Repayment on GOK's terms and conditions
for its lending to KSEB, as applicable at the Lime.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
Project Description:    The project's main objecti7es are: (i) to assist
in meeting the electricity demand in the State of
Kerala and the Southern Region of India through
the construction of a 180-MW hydropower station;
(ii) to improve the performance and efficiency of
the existing system through the reinforcement of
the distribution networks in the major cities of
Cannanore, Kozhikode, and Cochin ana through the
installation of reactive power compensation
equipment; and (iii) to strengthen KSEBWs
managerial, commercial, ana financial practices
through an institutional development program.  The
project provides for the construction, on the
lower Periyar River in the Idukki District, of a
powerhouse housing three generating units each of
60-MW capacity, and the construction and
installation of about 415 km of 220-kV double
circuit transmission lines, additional
transmission substations of 1,180-MWA capacity,
760 MVAR of reactive power compensation devices,
additional distribution substations (110-kV,
1l-kV) or 270 hVA capacity, and the associated
distribution cables and lines, switching stations,
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



gnd aistribution transformers.  There are no
extraorainary technical risks associated with the
project. Geological investigations have confirmed
the excellent rock formation in the area. KSEB
has staff experienced in supervision and execution
of works similar to those required under this
project, and consultant support will be provided
for those areas in which KSEB'A experience is
limited.
Estimated Cost: 1/
CUSS millions)
Item                          Local        Foreign        Total
Power Station                              84.4          34.0          118.4
Transmission Lines                         20.2           2.5           22.7
Substations                                25.6           Z.3           27.9
Reactive Power Compensation Equipment      15.2          20.3           35.5
Distribution Works                         36.2          12.0           4.2
Institutional Development                   1.7           1.5            3.2
Base Cost                              183.3          72.6          255.9
Physical Contingencies                     12.9           3.9           16.8
Price Contingencies                        42.1          18.5           60.6
Total Project Cost                     238.3          95.0         333.3
Interest during Construction:
Bank                                      -            40.2           40.2
Other                                    26.3            -            26.3
Total Financing Requirements              264.6         135.2          399.8
1/ Including about US$59.1 million in taxes and duties.



-i.i-
Financins Plan:                                      (US* millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
IBRD                                    81.0           95.0         176.0
GOI                                      -             40.2          40.2
GOK loans to KSEB                       76.6            -             76.6
KSEB internal resources                107.0            -            107.0
Total                              264.6          135.2         399.8
Estimated Disbursements:
(US* millions)
Bank FY               FY86       FY87      FY88       FY89     FY90     FY91
Annual                  9.2      31.2      45.4       47.9     32.7       9.6
Cumulative              9.2      40.4      85.8      133.7    166.4    176.0
RaEe of Return:    AbouL 13Z.
Appraisal Report: No. 5484-IN, dated May 22, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR THE KERALA POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
India for US$176.0 million on standard terms to help finance the construction of
a 180-MW hydroelectric power station in the Idukki District of the State of
Kerala, the installation of transmission lines and power compensation and dis-
tribution equipment, and an institutional development program for the Kerala
State Electricity Board (KSEB). The Government of India (GOI) will channel the
proceeds of the loan to the Government of Kerala (GOK) in accordance with GOI's
standard terms and arrangements for financing State development projects. GOK
will in turn onlend these funds to KSEB for 20 years, including five years'
grace, at the interest rate applicable at this time (currently 13.5% per annum)
for its lending to KSEB, not less than the current Bank interest rate of 9.29Z
per annum. Additional financing of about US$10 million to US$30 million may
possibly be provided from export credits, suppliers' credits, or commercial bank
loans for selected components of the distribution and power compensation
equipment. The foreign exchange and interest rate risks will be borne by the
Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2% since 1950151 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of industry
rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to
absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been sLow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6Z per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4Z per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Rihand Power Transmission Project (No.P-4062-IN),
dated May 7, 1985.



-2-
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7% in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.51 of GDP to 24.8Z in 1983/84. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20Z was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 11 for the past five
years.  Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3% of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1l.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export promo-
tion and more on import substitution. Tha volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume growth of
imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s, however,
India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the 1960s,
deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various policy
measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of India's
exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole, a perfor-
mance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While expand-
ing world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this
growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective export incen-
tives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As a
result, growth in real CDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added sub-
stantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging 5.3%,
3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In 1979/80,
however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent years, com-
bined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply shortages,
led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening
up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also
emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These setbacks coin-
cided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program
of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastruc-
tural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the
economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged aLmost 5S per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels and
liberalized policies on imports, industriql licensing, prices, and commercial
borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of infrastruc-
ture and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved perfor-
mance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement in



-3-
performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9Z in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be required
to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment without put-
ting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving inflationary
expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980181 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real CDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While industrial
output expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15% and 5.5%, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82, recording growth
rates of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This overall improvement in
the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought in mid-1982 which
reduced agricultural production by 4%, brought down the GDP growth rate to 1.8Z,
and put further strains on the already difficult balance of payments and domes-
tic resource situation. The timely implementation of various economic policies
relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and distribution, and the allocation
of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of
the poor monsoon. The economy recovered in 1983/84, led by a robust agricuL--
tural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7% with agricultural production growth
in the 9%-10 range and industrial growth of 4.5%. The major factors contribut-
ing to the good economic performance during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon,
combined with adequate agricultural policies and programs, and satisfactory
performance of the coal and transport sectors. The power sector, however,
emerged again as a constraint on higher growth, especially in industry.
5i.     Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by lOX-12Z over the previous year, reaching
3 new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum--sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from
time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of other
agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84, par-
tially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of the
year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of 1980-82.
Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir water levels
during the first half of the year, delays in the z-ommissioning of new capacity,
and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants. As a result,
power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and constituted a major
bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adversely affected by
power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and coal. To improve



-4-
performance in the power sector, the Government recently increased incentives
for higher labor and management productivity in thermal plants. Railway freight
traffic, measured in ton-kme, grew by only 0.51 in 1983/84, reflecting sluggish
demand. Coal production increased by about 6.51 in 1983/84 reaching 139 million
tons. When combined with stocks already available this level of production was
sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand growth. Infrastructural con-
straints would have emerged much more sharply had the pace of industrial growth
and demand been more rapid. It is therefore critically important that India
maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors, mobilize sufficient
resources to do so, and implement programs to enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970. to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late 1970s
to an average equivalent to 2.1Z of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross national
savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is high by any
standard, perticularly considering India's low income and the large proportion
of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substantial increase
in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to maintain invest-
ment at about 25% of GDP, a major effort will be required to raise additional
domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future increases in
savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow a marginal
decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1X-2.3Z of GDP to
1.5Z-1.8Z, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983184. Several developments contributed to these relatively larger
current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated sharply in
1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued to move
against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a more liberal
import policy towards industriai inputs was pursued. Third, net invisibles
declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting
slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on
higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe infrastructural
constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments, India initiated an
adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth rate from its his-
torical level of 3.6% to 5.2Z wnile adjusting the country's external balance to
the adverse price developments in the world markets. The main elements of this
strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are export promotion, import
substitution where economically justifiable, implementation of a coherent energy
policy designed to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth
of oil imports, and continued movement toward a more liberal import policy aimed
at providing producers with access to inputs for higher capacity utilization,
greater efficiency, improved technology and capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in 1983/84
despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization. Export
volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products, metals and
fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other" imports. These



-5-
"other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capital goods which
historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of critical impor-
tance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modernization and
expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was the lower net
import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in 1980/81 to
US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil development program
that reduced import needs and aLlowed crude oil exports, which totalled about
US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the balance of payments
are to a significant degree the result of India's development and adjustment
efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the balance of payments
will continue to be under strain for the next several years, since the adjust-
ment strategy will continue to require high levels of imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India borrowed
significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers'
credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has been used for
specific development projects in the public and private sector (mostly for
petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and shipping).
India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its borrowings, for
project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments support, enabled
it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads. This larger commer-
cial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement with the IMF has
stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to less than four
months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India ha- che capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared to
many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity as
well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has a
wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-endowed
with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in
terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also
gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign
savings, India has the capabiLity for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected



-6-
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been enrouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30%
higher than in the period 1975-80--a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10% higher and public investment about 202 lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments.  The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States' will
probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to shortfalls
in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power, transport and
irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real investment shortfalls
relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capital
formation rates have increased from 22.6Z in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in 1980-84.
Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future income growth,
but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much of this
phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large and growing
proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure serv-
ices which have inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is scope
to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements in efficiency. As dis-
cussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports, performance in the
basic service sectors can be improved through better planning and management,
thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the
economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In
the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified
on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power
and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the
requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well ahead
of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration
and development were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and
products. While the gap between domestic consumption of petroleum and produc-
tion remains large, India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% of con-
sumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is expected to decrease to about
33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exploration
activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake from known
fields, offers much encouragement for India's longer-term energy prospects. At
the same time, the increases in domestic petroleum prices have helped encourage
conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same tine achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which



-7-
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure. supperzed by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on comercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequenc"s
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector
and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the vcry low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather than
accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless, with a more
open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the growth of
productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both foreign and
domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0X per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per annum.  If the
rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth
rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income of
1.4% per annum. S-uccess in these efforts would make a significant difference
to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there was
no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per annum
in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The population
growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction in the
infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting larger
availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome development,
it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the need for con-
tinuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning programs in a broad
range of activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in the
Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in the
reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35%
by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its population policy for the Seventh
Plan, with indications of a determination to retain the emphasis on the
implementation of family planning, health, education and literacy programs aimed
at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
2-d small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least able
to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually reinforcing
rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs operating on a
nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program (NNP), the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural Employment
Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at increasing the



-8-
incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of productive assets or
direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provision of social
infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capital of the poor
and improve living standards. These programs represent a vitally important
commitment of the Government to address the needs of the poorest. The scale
of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent difficulties in
implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need for continued
efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development credits
to India totalling US$6,818 million and US$12,934 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,465 million has been
repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisburstd as of March 31, 1985 Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1985
totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of about 27 percent over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1985.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which US$145 million has been repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled.
Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents loans and
US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of March 31,
1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic
growth in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and
railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided
financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development finance
institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy
the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported
nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water
supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan. First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India has made sig-
nificant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sustained
to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute to
poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assistance
will be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of performance
under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be given



-9-
to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to
the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly the
Bank Group will continue to support the development of the energy, transport and
telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain
output in both agricultural and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban
development and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor will also
continue in light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lower-
ing birth and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank
economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in
part to the response of the aid community, India successfully adjusted to the
changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to
require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the relatively
higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four years of the
Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should
aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively
few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to supple-
ment IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not adver-
sely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37X, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of March 31, 1985, outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.



-10-
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
29.     India's commercially exploitable energy resources consist of coal,
oil, gas, hydro, uranium and thorium. Of the nonrenewable resources, coal
is the most abundant. Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated at
slightly more than 100 billion tons, of which 25 billion tons are proven.
Although reserves are ample, the quality of coal produced is generally low
and is deteriorating. Proven and probable petroleum reserves comprise
approximately 530 million tons of oil and 390 million toe of natural gas.
Despite recent increases in domestic production, India still imports about
one third of its oil requirements, which in 1983/84 cost the equivalent of
40X of its merchandise exports. The Government has therefore given high
priority to oil and gas exploration and, at the same time, has implemented
measures to restrain the rapidly growing demand for oil products, in
particular middle distillates; the Government has also generally limited
the use of gas to premium markets, such as petrochemicals and fertilizer.
However, delays in the construction of infrastructure for gas transport
have resulted in substantial volumes of associated gas being flared.
India's hydroelectric potential is about 100,000 MW. At present, only
13,000 MW have been developed, 4,700 MW are under construction, and a
further 23,000 MW are being studied for future development. The country's
uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program (8,000-10,000 MW),
and its thorium reserves are enough for a large breeder program. India's
nuclear power generating capacity is currently 3000 MW.
30.     Planning the best use of India's indigenous energy resources for
power generation raises a number of issues. First, the high ash content
of coal, which can reach 50%, increases transport costs, as well as power
station capital and operating costs. The development of pithead stations,
which is constrained by pollution limitations and the availability of
cooling water, only helps to alleviate the transport problem. Thus,
priority is being given in Bank lending to the coal sector to more
selective mining and improved coal preparation. Two studies included in
the Dudhichue Coal Project (Loan 2393-IN) are designed to address problems
of coal transport: one study will examine -ways of improving the linkages
between the sources of supply and demand, and the other will concentrate
on improvements in handling and transportation facilities. Second, there
is a need for a coherent policy on the utilization of gas, and this has
become more urgent with the recent increases in estimated reserves. A
Bank study planned for 1985 will focus on, among other things, the
potential for the economic use of gas in power generation. Third, the
prominent role of hydro in regional least-cost development plans prepared
in 1982 has led GOI to emphasize the need to accelerate its development;
however, progress has been slow owing to the time required to resolve
water rights and environmental issues, the limited technical resources
available for the simultaneous preparation of a large number of schemes,
and the lack of financial resources of States with the greatest hydro
potential.



-11-
Supply and Demand of Electricity - India
31.     Approximately 50S of India's electricity is generated from coal,
402 rom hydro, and the rest from oil, nuclear power, and natural gas.
Although a number of large thermal projects are planned for the short
term, the share of hydro is expected to increase in the long run.
Electricity losses have risen slowly but steadily aver the last few years
and now exceed 26Z of gross generation. The deteriorating quality of coal
has been at least partly responsible for this trend, with coal stations'
own consumption now approaching 102 of gross generation against a
desirable 5Z. Distribution losses are also higher than is desirable owing
to inadequate planning and insufficient investment. Although system
losses are lower than in several countries in the region, they need to be
reduced. Under its lending program, the Bank has supported measures
designed to reduce losses and will continue to do so. However, such
measures need to be State specific, reflecting the particular
circumstances of each State.
32.     Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has
grown approximately twice as fast as total commercial energy consumption
and now accounts for more than 30% of the latter. However, supply has not
kept pace with demand and shortages have been prevalent throughout the
country. During the last five years, shortages have on average been
equivalent to about 13% of electricity requirements. The principal
sectoral shares of total electricity consumption are: industrial, 56Z;
agricultural, 19X; and domestic, 12%. Agriculture's share has grown
steadily owing to increased electrical irrigation pumping made possible by
rural electrification and encouraged by heavy subsidies. Total
consumption has grown at an average rate of 10% per annum during the past
two decades, and the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has forecast
growth of 9Z per annum between 1984/85 and 1989/90. Actual growth will
depend on the allocation to power in the Seventh Plan and the performance
of utilities in fulfilling the Plan.
Supply and Demand of Electricity - Southern Region
33.    The Southern Region comprises the States of Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu, and the Union Territories of
Pondicherry and Lakshadweep Islands. As of July 1984, the installed
capacity in the Region was 9,685 MD, consisting of 3,407 Kw (35%) of
thermal power, 6,043 NW (62Z) of hydropower, and 235 MW (3Z) of nuclear
power. Installed capacity is expected to reach 25,100 MW by 1994/95,
representing an average increase of 10% per year. In the period 1980/81
through 1984/85, electricity consumption grew at an average rate of about
9% per year, reaching an estimated 39,700 GWh in 1984/85; peak demand grew
by about 7% per year, to 6,420 MW, in the same period. However, these
rates of growth underestimate real demand growth because of the
progressive severity of supply constraints. These constraints are
expected to prevail into the coming decade despite the planned growth in
installed capacity. Over the period 1984/85 to 1994/95, energy
requirements are expected to increase at an average rate of about 10% per
year to 101,840 GWh, and peak demand to increase by about 1lZ per year to



-12-
18,200 MW. Kerala's present installed capacity of 1,011 MW, which
consists entirely of hydropower, is adequate only in years with average or
above-average rainfall. During recent dry years, KSEB has had to
introduce selective power cuts and load staggering. Electricity losses in
Kerala are estimated at 20% of total generation, and although losses are
relatively low compared with other States in India, further reductions are
possible and desirable. The proposed project is expected to result in a
reduction in system losses of between 3% and 5% in 1989/90.
Organization of the Power Subsector
34.     Responsibility for the supply of electricity is shared between the
Central and State Governments. The State Electricity Boards (SEBs) and
the Regional Electricity Boards (REBs) are controlled by States; the
Central Electricity Authority, the National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC), the National Hydro-Electric Power Corporation (NHPC), and the
Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) are controlled by the Central
Government. SEBs were instituted under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948
(the Act), to promote the development of the power subsector and to
regulate private licensees. Although SEBs are supposed to be autonomous
in managing their day-to-day operations, in practice they are under the
control of State Governments in such matters as capital investment,
tariffs, borrowings, pay, and personnel policies. As a first step towards
national integration, the SEBs have been grouped into five regional
systems, each coordinated by an REB. Coordination responsibilities
include overhaul and maintenance programs, generation schedules,
inter-State power transfers and concomitant tariffs. CEA was created in
1950 to develop national power policy and to coordinate the various
agencies involved in supplying electricity. It is responsible for the
formulation of countrywide investment plans for approval by the Central
Government, development of integrated system operation, training of
personnel, and research and development. It maintains operational,
economic, and financial data at both the Central and State levels, and
provides consulting support to SEBs. NTPC and NHPC were incorporated in
1975 by GOI to construct and operate large power stations and associated
transmission facilities. They sell bulk power to the SEBs for
distribution. NTPC has had marked success and has grown rapidly. In
contrast, NHPC is still struggling to establish a role for itself. The
States own most hydro sites and are reluctant to relinquish these sources
of comparatively inexpensive energy to the Central Government. REC was
established in 1969 to coordinate rural electrification and provide
financial and technical expertise for SEB schemes. At present, REC
finances more than half of total rural electrification investment.
Pricing and Resource Mobilization
35.     Through the 1983 amendments to the Act, GOI has set a financial
objective for the SEBs in which they are required to produce an annual
return of at least 3% on their historically valued net fixed assets, after
meeting operating expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest. The 3%
return would represent, in terms of the Bank's conventional method of
calculation, a rate of return on historically valued assets in the range



-13-
of 102 to 13Z. The Bank considers this objective to be a reasonable
minimum but the investment requiremento of a number of SEBs are such that
higher returns would be desirable in order to achieve reasonable cash
generation. Although, in some cases, higher returns may be possible
through reclassification of consumers, substantial improvements will only
be achievable through tariff increases. SEB tariffs do not adequately
reflect marginal costs. An analysis of 1981 tariffs indicated that they
were on average only 52X of long run marginal cost (LRMC); industrial
tariffs were almost 90X, domestic 362, and agricultural only 27%. While
there may have been improvements since 1981 and adherence to the
stipulated rate of return will further improve the overall level of the
tariff, the structure is still distorted. State-specific financial
programs are needed to provide both a higher return on investment and a
simpler, efficient and affordable tariff structure. Such prograns will be
addressed through the Bank's lending to individual SEBs. In contrast,
NTPC's tariff is approximately equal to its LRMC.
Power Subsector Planning
36.    Due to rapid demand growth, GOI at present allocates about 20Z of
pubjic investment to power development. In order that the subsector
should be developed in the most economic manner, the Bank encouraged COI
to prepare a least-cost National Power Plan (NPP), which was completed in
September 1982. Although this plan, which is actually a collection of
five regional plans, represents substantial progress, further refinement
is needed. In particular, there is a need for integration of the regional
plans and greater coordination between planning in power and other
sectors. Since it will not be possible to achieve full national
integration immediately, the Bank will continue to ensure that each
Bank-financed project forms a part of an up-to-date regional least-cost
development plan. In due course, the sources of supply considered should
be widened to include the option of importing from neighboring regions.
This approach would eventually lead to integrated planning at a national
level. To facilitate integration, GOI has agreed, under the Rihand Power
Transmission Project, to undertake a study on the long-term development of
a national transmission system. A problem has arisen in the coordination
of the long-term NPP with the national five-year plan and shorter-term
budgets. Owing to the lack of resources, fewer projects have been
included in the five-year plan than in the NPP and, as a result of
underestimation of project costs and delays in project implementation,
still fewer have been executed. Consequently, the shortage of power has
become more and more acute and, over the next decade, India expects its
power deficit to increase severalfold. In the past this deficit has
undermined rational planning by encouraging emphasis on the rapid
expansion of supply rather than on least-cost development. Furthermore,
it has prompted overinvestment in captive plant, leading to excessive use
of high-value petroleum products in power generation. In addition to
supporting OOI's efforts to increase the supply of power, the Bank will
continue to stress to COI the role of pricing in eliminating the deficit
and the importance of integrating planning and pricing.



-14-
Management and Operations
37.     SEBs' organization and management practices hiave not kept pace
with the expansion of supply. Quality of service, reliability, and
financial performance are the principal areas of concern. In general,
SEBs have high quality engineering staff, but lack experienced personnel
in the areas of financial planning and control. The relatively poor
status and pay of these personnel exacerbate the already significant pay
differential between the public and private sectors and make it difficult
to recruit competent staff. Management practices are generally outmoded
and inadequate. The SEBs' inefficient accounting systems are an example.
At present, accounts are maintained principally to track cash receipts and
expenditures, and there is little use of accounting information for
managerial purposes. GOI has decided that a new and uniform accounting
system should be installed in all SEBs. After initial delays,
implementation is now proceeding.
38.     In the area of operations, one of the main concerns has been the
poor performance of thermal plant. Factors that have contributed to this
situation are inadequate maintenance (due to capacity shortages),
deficiencies in plant manufacture, lack of spares, and the poor quality of
coal; in general, these problems have been recognized by the relevant
authorities and corrective steps are being taken. GOI is currently
preparing a rehabilitation program for thermal plant. Until this program
is compiled, the Bank will, whenever appropriate, include a thermal
rehabilitation component under each of the loans made to the SEBs.
Bank Group Participation in the Past
39.     The Bank has made 18 loans for Indian power projects amounting to
US$1,983 million, and 17 IDA credits totalling US$2,409 million.
Seventeen projects financed under the following loans and credits have
been completed: ten generating projects, the Beas Project (Credit 98-IN),
the first four transmission projects (Loan 416-IN, Credits 242-IN, 377-IN
and 604-IN), and the First and Second Rural Electrification Projects
(Credits 572-IN and 911-IN). The Fourth Transmission Project (Credit
604-IN) was completed in 1983, and the Second Rural Electrification
Project in 1984. The Singrauli (Credit 685-IN), Korba (Credit 793-IN),
and Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN) Thermal Power Projects are
in advanced stages of implementation.  The credit for the Second Singrauli
Thermal Power Project (Credit 1027-IN) and the credit/loan for the first
stage of the Farakka Thermal Power Project (Credit 1053-IN and Loan
1887-IN) were approved in May and June 1980.  Korba II (Credit 1172-IN)
was approved in July 1981, Ramagundam II (Loan 2076-IN) in December 1981,
and the Third Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-IN) in June 1982.
The Upper Indravati Hydro Project (Credit 1356-IN and Loan 2278-IN) and
the Central Power Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN) were approved in May
1983, and the Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric Power Project in May 1984. The
Second Farakka Thermal Power Project (Loan 2442-IN) was approved in June
1984, and the Trombay IV Thermal Power Project (Loan 2452-IN) in June of
the same year. The Third Rural Electrification Project is about a year
behind scheduLe. The first five units of the Singrauli Project and the



-15-
first two units of the Korba project were commissioned on schedule. The
Parakka and Ramagundam projects are proceeding satisfactorily, the first
unit at Ramagundam having been commissioned four months ahead of schedule.
The Third Trombay Project (Unit 5) (Loan 1549-IN) war first synchronized
in January 1984, about a year behind schedule; time was lost mainly
because parts for the boiler were not delivered on time, and because of
delays in its construction.
40.     A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project has
succeeded in helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission
systems and meet their growing power requirements. Utilization of
generating capacity in these SEBs has exceeded the appraisal forecast.
The upgrading of the SEBs' financial management practices that began under
this project will continue under subsequent projects. The audit
highlighted the difficulties of supervising a project coosisting of many
widely scattered subprojects, and of effecting institutional improvements
in the absence of a close working relationship between the Bank Group and
the beneficiary SEBs.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector
41.     Over the last ten years the Bank Group has assisted GOI in
substantially expanding its centrally owned generation capacity. In the
past two years, however, Bank Group lending has been broadened to
encompass SEB-implemented projects in order to support GOI's policy of
accelerating hydro development and improving project implementation,
operational efficiency and financial performance in the SEbs. Specific
objectives of Bank Group assistance include:
(a) the better use of existing facilities--through transmission
projecL. mproving regional interconnections and through
rehabilitation of plant, particularly of thermal power
stations and distribution networks: these measures vill
impro-'e the efficiency of energy use and reduce system
losses, thereby helping to minimize system capital and
operating costs;
(b) institution building--although the Bank will continue to
maintain an interest in Central institutions, its efforts
will be broadened, as noted above, to encompass individual
SEBs, where substantial efforts are needed to strengthen
management, operations, and finances and to ensure the
successful implementation of commercial accounting;
(c) improved planning--particularly by extending the scope of
planning from the State through the regional to the national
Level and through greater integration of planning with other
sectors in the economy, both those that consume electricity
and those that supply other forms of energy; and



-16-
(d) improved resource mobilization from electricity consumers--
the principal vehicle for this has been and will continue to
be financial covenants in relation to beneficiaries; however,
the Bank will also continue to stress the importance of
relating tariffs to the economic costs of supply.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The project was prepared by KSEB and appraised by a mission that
visited India in November 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held
in Washington in May 1985. COI and KSEB were represented by a delegation
with Mr. Prithvi Singh of the Department of Economic Affairs as
coordinator. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
43.     The primary objective of the project is to help meet the demand
for electricity in the State of Kerala and in the Southern Region of India
through the provision of an additional 180 MW of installed
hydro-generating capacity at a new plant on the lower Periyar River in the
Idukki District of Kerala, and the installation of transmission lines
linking the plant to three of the main load centers in the State. A
secondary objective is to improve the performance and efficiency of the
existing power system through the reinforcement of the distribution
networks in the major cities of Kozhikode, Cochin, and Trivandrum, and the
installation of reactive power compensation equipment. A further
objective is to strengthen KSEB's managerial, commercial, and financial
practices through the implementation of an institutional development
program.
44.     Through its involvement in the project, the Bank would be
supporting GOI's objectives and efforts to accelerate the development of
hydropower resources and alleviate power shortages in the Southern Region.
By including the distribution network component in the project, the Bank
would also help to ensure that the reliability of power supply is improved
and system losses are reduced. The inclusion of the institutional
development program is expected to contribute substantially to KSEB's
development, particularly in the financial and management areas. The
assistance of consultants in connection with the reactive power
compensation and distribution elements of tile project would introduce KSEB
to state-of-the-art planning techniques in these fields.
Project Description
45.     The project is made up of the following components:
(a) construction of a run-of-the-river 180 MW hydropower station
consisting of diversion dam, intake, headrace tunnel, penstocks, and a
powerhouse equipped with three generating units of 60 MW each;



-17-
(b) installation of about 415 km of 220 kV double circuit
transmission lines and construction of associated substations (1,180 MVA
capacity), to feed the main load centers of Cochin, Kozhikode, and
Cannanore;
(c) installation of about 760 MVAR of reactive pover compensation
equipment to improve the system's power factor;
(d) reinforcement of the secondary transmission and distribution
networks (110 kV to 11 kV) in the cities of Cochin, Trivandrum, and
Kozhikode, including the construction and installation of about 270 MVA of
additional distribution substations and associated distribution cables and
lines, switching stations, and distribution transformers;
(e) implementation of an institutional development program for
KSEB, comprising: (i) the design and implementation of an information
system, including a commercial accounting system, and the training of KSEB
staff, for management and planning; (ii) the preparation of an
organization and management review, together with subsequent
implementation of its recommendations; (iii) the preparation of a
comprehensive fixed-asset inventory; (iv) the preparation of a study to
develop a simpler and more efficient tariff schedule for KSEB; and (v) the
acquisition of data processing facilities;
(f) provision of training, technical assistance, and consulting
services for the implementation of the project.
Project Implementation
46.     KSEB will implement the project over a period of about seven years
(FY85-FY91). Field investigations for the proposed power plant began in
1971. KSEB has been developing the detailed engineering for the project
since 1982, with the assistance of the Central Water Conission (CWC) for
the civil works aspects and of CEA for the electromechanical aspects. The
proposed power station layout was approved in 1984 by an independent panel
of experts, who will be retained throughout the imp'lementation of the
project to oversee the technical aspects of design and construction.
47.     Construction of the headrace tunnel for the plant began in August
1984. Project engineering for the other components, with the exception of
the distribution works and reactive power compensation equipment, is at a
stage suitable for bidding. Further work on these two components will be
carried out with the assistance of consultants. The three units of the
plant are expected to be commissioned in the period May 1989 to February
1990, and the transmission lines, associated substations, and distribution
works by about March 1990. However, about 135 km of the transmission line
linking the proposed power station with the Idukki plant and Trichur
substation need to be completed by mid-1986 so that power can be evacuated
from the Idukki II -!ant, which is presently under construction. To meet
these commissioning dates, contracts for the main civil works and
principal items of equipment for the proposed station must be awarded



-18-
during the first half of 1986; materials and equipment for the
transmission and distribution components should be ordered in January
1986. These dates are achievable under the project's proposed
construction schedule.
48.     General engineering and consulting services will be provided to
KSEB by CEA and CWC. CEA and CWC would be responsible for preparing or
reviewing tender documents, preparing technical specifications for the
major items of electromechanical equipment and drawings for the civil
works, and providing general technical assistance during project
construction. Both CEA and CWC have had experience in similar projects
since they have served as the engineers for most of the hydropower and
irrigation schemes in India over several decades. KSEB has a cadre of
well-experienced construction and supervision engineers for the civil
works, and has appointed a Chief Engineer, Construction, for the station.
A satisfactory organization for the implementation of this part of the
project has been established. Another Chief Engineer position has been
created to coordinate and supervise the associated transmission and
distribution works. KSEB has also had extensive experience in this area.
However, it has had no substantial experience in the selection,
procurement, or installation of reactive power compensation equipment,
underground transmission, and gas-insulated switchgear. KSEB has
therefore retained consultants (SNC of Canada) to assist in the
engineering of the proposed distribution and reactive power compensation
elements, the preparation of final technical specifications, the
evaluation of tenders, the supervision of construction and installation,
and the provision of general advice to KSEB as needed on other
project-related matters. About 100 man-months of consulting services will
be required for this purpose.
49.     The implementation of this project wiLl involve several of KSEB's
organizational units and the execution of a large number of contracts. In
order to ensure the necessary control and monitcring of progress in the
implementation of a project of this nature, KSEB will establish, by
September 30, 1985, a Project Cell under the management of the Chief
Engineer (Planning). This cell will be responsible for coordinating
project implementation; liaising with COI, CEA, CWC, and the Bank;
monitoring project execution; processing disbursement applications; and
preparing required project reports for the project authorities and the
Bank (Section 2.06 of Project Agreement).
50.     The institutional development program will be carried out by
consultants retained by KSEB. A total of about 350 man-months of
consulting and training services will be required for the design and
implementation of a management information system and the implementation
of commercial accounting (120 man-months), the organization and management
review (50 man-months), the fixed-assets inventory (100 man-months), the
tariff simplification study (50 man-months), and the implemntation of
data processing (30 man-months). In view of the extensive involvement of
consultants under the project, KSEB will also set up a steering committee,
which would include key KSEB staff, to coordinate all technical assistance
and training activities. The steering committee would be established by



-19-
June 30, 1985, and would meet regularly with the consultants responsible
for the implementation of the various components of the institutional
development program. 1SB will retain the consultants for the
implementation of the commercial accounting system and the fixed assets
inventory by August 31, 1985, and those for all other component. by
December 31, 1985. Suggested terms of reference for the consultants have
been provided by the Bank to KSEBI final terms of reference will be
prepared by KSEB by June 30, 1985 in the case of the consultants for the
commercial accounting system and fixed assets inventory, and by July 31,
1985 in the case of the other consultants.
Water Rights, Land Acquisition, and Resettlement
51.     The Periyar River lies entirely within the State of Kerala.  There
are no pending water rights disputes or claims to affect the plant's
construction or operation. KSEB already owns the land for the small
pondage area created by the project's intake dam, the powerhouse and
switchyard areas, and the expansion of most of the existing transmission
substations, and is acquiring the necessary land for the remaining
substations. The new distribution substations, which will be located in
the crowded centers of Kozhikode, Cochin, and Trivandrum, will utilize
gas-insulated switchgear, which will minimize space requirements. The
land for these substations, which are to be constructed in 1988, is being
identified and valued. No land acquisition is required for the
transmission lines. No substantial resettlement of population is
necessary under the project. A court case is pending concerning the
compensation to be paid to seventeen families who were supposedly illegal
settlers on the site of the power station. The families have vacated the
site. The expected amounts of compensation involved would be negligible
compared with the cost of the project.
Environmental Aspects
52.     The project has been cleared by GOI's Department of Enviroment.
No problems are anticipated with water quality, since no reservoir will be
created under the project. Fish migration is not at issue in view of the
existing dams upstream. Malaria and filaria have been ermdicated from the
entire State of Kerala for more than a decade, and the risk of
schistosomiasis is considered low because of the distances to potentially
contaminating locations in Tamil Nadu.  The project would pose little or
no harm to forest land: only some 127 ha would be deforested. As a
compensatory measure, KSEB will finance the planting of 127 ha of forest
near a local village. No rare or endangered biota will be affected.
Roads accessible by jeep will be built for the construction of the
transmission lines, but these will be allowed to revert to forest when
construction is completed.
Project Cost and Financing
53.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies but
excluding about US$59 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about
US$274 million equivalent, of which US$95 million (35%) represents the



-20-
estimated foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction adds about
US*67 million to the financing required. The principal costs, net of
physical and price contingencies, but including taxes and duties, will be
as follows: power station, US$118 million; transmission lines, US$23
million; substations, US$28 million; reactive power compensation
equipment, US$36 million; distribution works, US$44 million; consultancy
and technical assistance for the institutional development program, US$3
million. The estimates of project costs are based on recent quotations
for similar civil works in Kerala, and on manufacturers' price quotations
for the major items of electrical and mechanical equipment. These prices
have been adjusted for estimated inLtlation to May 1985 levels.  The cost
of consulting services is based upon an estimated total requirement of 450
man-months, ot whicn 3UO man-months would be for local consultants and 150
man-months for expatriate consultants. Price contingencies, amounting to
24% of base cost, are basea on expected annual intlation rates of 8.5Z for
1985|86 through 1989/90 for local costs, ana 8X for 1985, 9% tor 1986
througn 1988, 7.5% for 1989, and 6% thereafter for foreign costs.
Physical contingencies of 10% on civil works ann 5% on equipment have been
allowed, amounting to about 7X of base cost.
54.     The proposed Bank loan of US*176 million will finance USY95
million (70Z) of the total foreign exchange financing requirement of about
US$135 million, together with US$81 million of the local costs, and would
cover about 52% of the total project financing requirements, net of -taxes
and duties. The balance of the funds required, aggregating about US*224
million equivalent, will be provided by GOI (US$40 million), by GOK in the
form of loans to KSEB (US*77 million), ana by KSEB from its own resources
(USM107 million). The project provines opportunities for cofinancing of
up to US$30 million from export credits, suppliers credits or commercial
bank loans to meet part of the cost of gas-insulated switchgear,
underground cables for the distribution works, ana the reactive power
compensation equipment. GOI has indicated that it is prepared to consider
these opportunities. In the event that arrangements for such cofinancing
are successfully concluaed, GOK's contribution to project financing wili
be reduced accordingly, and the Bank will seek to reallocate its
contribution toward the tinancing of these items to other items in tne
project, as appropriate.
55.     The proceeas of the proposed loan will be channeled by GOI to GOK
as part of its normal assistance to States for development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time. In turn, GOK will relend the
Bank funds, together with its own contribution, to KSEB. Terms for the
onlent Bank funds will provide for repayment over 20 years, including five
years  grace, at GOK's interest rate applicable at the time of drawdown
(currently 13.5% per annum) tor its lending to KSEB, but not less than the
current Bank interest rate of 9.29% per annum (Section 2.01(b) of Project
Agreement). Repayment of GOK's contribution will be on its terms and
conditions for lending to KSEB, as applicable at the time. The average
inflation rate is not expected to exceed 8.5% per annum over the next five
years. GOK's lending rate to KSEB is therefore expected to remAin
positive in real terms. The foreign exchange ana interest rate risks will
be borne by GOI.



-21-
Procurement and Disbursement
56.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex IV.  All civil
works contracts with an estimated cost of US$5 million or more, and all
contracts for the supply of goods with an estimated cost of US$1 million
or more, will be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with Bank guidelines. All other contracts will be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) under procedures acceptable
to the Bank. About 80% of works and services for the project will be
procured under ICB. Consultants will be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Foreign suppliers would not be precluded from participating
in LCB. Major locai contractors and manufacturers are expected to be
competitive in the civil works and most of the equipment supply tenders.
Local contractors competing under ICB will be allowed a margin of
preference of 7.5% for civil works, and local manufacturers a margin of
preference of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price, or the actual customs duties
and import taxes, whichever is less, for the supply of goods. All civil
works contracts costing the equivalent of US$5 million or more and all
equipment contracts costing the equivalent of US$1 million or more will be
subject to the Bank's prior review. Such review would cover contracts
totalling about 90Z of the estimated cost of the Bank-financed components.
57.     The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a six-year period
(FY86-91) and will cover 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or of
the ex-factory cost of goods manufactured in India; 50% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; 60% of the cost of civil
works; and 100% of the cost of consultancy services. Expenditures
incurred since February 15, 1985 and prior to loan signing, covering
consultancy services for project engineering and the implementation of
commercial accounting in KSEB, will be financed retroactively up to an
amount of US$600,000 equivalent (Schedule 1, para. 3 of Loan Agreement).
The disbursement period for this loan is similar to the Bank-wide
composite average for power generation, transmission, and distribution
projects.
The Kerala State Electricity Board
58. KSEB, which was established in 1957 under the Electricity (Supply)
Act of 1948, is responsible for the generation, transmission, and
distribution of electricity throughout the State. It constructs and
operates generating stations and transmission and distribution networks to
supply ultimate consumers and licensees with electric power. However,
KSEB is not completely independent in executing these responsibilities
since it is controlled, according to statutory power, by the State
Government in matters of staffing, borrowing, and tariff setting. KSEB's
capital investment program is determined within the overall State and
national planning framework.
59.     KSEB is an autonomous body consisting of a full-time Chairman,
three full-time members for accounts, technical matters and vigilance
(security), and three ex officio members who are appointed for a one-year



-22-
term by COK. The ex officio members represent the consumers, including
industry, commerce, and the general public. KSEB's organization structure
is characterized by broad delegation of functional responsibilities to
numerous local offices spread over a wide geographic area. KSEB has met
the demands of its substantial growth either by adding new organizational
units to its basic structure or by expanding existing units, both of which
clearly affect the authority, responsibility and qualifications required
of the local managers. To date, neither KSEB's organizational structure
nor its managerial procedures have been extensively reviewed.
Accordingly, as part of the institutional development component of the
project, KSEB will retain consultants by December 31, 1985, to conduct a
comprehensive organization and management study, and assist in
implementing its recommendations.
60.     Since 1982, GOK has restricted recruitment at KSEB, and new
personnel can be recruited only if no present KSEB employee possesses the
requisite skills. Consequently, during the past two years, the number of
sanctioned posts at KSEB has changed only nominally, and the vacancy rate
has been negligible. At the end of 1983/84, KSEB had about 34,800 regular
employees. Engineers, technicians, and tech' cal support staff together
make up about half of the total staff; operations and maintenance staff
total about 5,200 employees. The training needs of KSEB have been given
low priority over the past two years owing to the limited financial
resources available. Provision has been made in the institutional
development component of the project for training of KSEB staff, based on
a preliminary assessment of training needs to be prepared jointly by KSEB
and the Bank. KSEB will accordingly develop a satisfactory detailed
training program by June 30, 1986 (Section 2.05 of Project Agreement).
61.     In view of the fact that decisions concerning major expansions of
systems are made by GOI on the basis of regional considerations, KSEB's
planning activities are limited. They include the preparation of load
forecasts, the identification of future power generation schemes, the
preparation of feasibility reports, and the planning of the high-tension
transmission and substation facilities. Systematic long-term planning of
large distribution systems has been lacking, and distribution works have
so far been executed as needed on an ad hoc basis. KSEB needs to
strengthen its planning function by developing a more accurate and
detailed data base; by integrating physical, financial, and organizational
considerations into its expansion planning; and by using modern tools of
analysis such as data processing facilities. These needs will be
addressed in the context of the activities included as part of the
institutional development component of the proposed project.
62.     KSEB's operation and maintenance of its system are generally
satisfactory. Preventive maintenance and inspection for generation,
transmission, and substation facilities are conducted regularly according
to standard practice. Periodic inspections and preventive maintenance of
the distribution system are conducted on a selective basis with corrective
maintenance being provided as needed. However, KSEB expects to be able to
regularize these activities as its cash position improves.



-23-
KSEB Finances
63.     The financial operations of the SEBs are regulated by the Act.  In
August 1983, the Act was amended to enable GOI to prescribe financial
objectives and a uniform accounting system for the SEBs. These amendments
came into effect from April 1, 1985, the start of &OI's 1985/86 financial
year. In parallel with these developments, 001 has prepared a uniform
commercial system of accounting which is being introduced in accordance
with agreements reached under previous Bank-supported projects. Although
progress is being achieved in this area, a number of the SEBs continue to
maintain their accounts poorly and are unable to compile timely and
reliable accounts. KSEB's accounting situation is fairly typical of that
of the other SEBs. However, KSEB is committed to strengthening its
accounting, financial and commercial operations, and the Bank proposes to
support these institutional development objectives under the proposed
project (paragraphs 65-68).
64.     KSEB financed a significant portion (about 402) of its investment
program from 1982/83 through 1984185 from its own resources. However, it
accomplished this by deferring its interest obligations on OOK loans,
deferring taxes payable to 00K, extending its accounts payable, postponing
certain maintenance expenditures, and cutting its training activities.
These measures were necessitated in part by severe drought conditions in
the State in 1982/83 and 1983/84, which reduced the hydropower available
for sale. Under the combined effect of KSEB's commitment to
self-financing and the drought conditions, KSEB's working capital was
seriously reduced during the period. KSEB's debt-equity ratio of about
96:4 in these two years was also excessively high.
65.     The need to address the negative effects of KSEB's past reliance
on financial expedients 3uch as those indicated above prompted the
inclusion of a financial recovery program under the proposed project.
This program is designed to encourage financial discipline and ensure
sufficient liquidity for operational and investment requirements. The
proposed package of measures will address four categories of KSEB's
financial operations: (a) accounting and financial practices;
(b) adjustment of accounts; (c) annual financial performance targets; and
(d) tariff structure. Several measures will he introduced in each
category. Under the accounting and financial practices, KSEB has
undertaken to strengthen its financial management through an interim
reorganization of its finance department by which it will increase,
through promotion or external recruitment, the number of Deputy Chief
Accounts Officers and Senior Accounts Officers. Specialized training will
also be provided to KSEB's divisional accountants. This interim
reorganization is already under way, and the remaining senior financial
managerial posts are expected to be filled by December 31, 1985. KSEB has
also established an internal audit unit within its organization, and will
modify the scope of the unit's activities as appropriate, by December 31,
1986, to reflect the recommendations of the organization and management
study. The uniform commercial accounting system (paragraph 63) to be
adopted by the SEBs will be formally notified by GOI by July 15, 1985
(Section 3.04 of Loan Agreement), and KSEB will implement it by April 1,



-24-
1986, the beginning ot financial year 1986/87 (Section 3.04 of Project
Agreement). KSEB will retain consultantas to implement the system and
provide the necessary training to its staff by August 31, 1985.
66.     The measures in the secona category of tinancial recovery are
designed to correct a number of anomalies in KSEB's accounts. Over a
period of not more than eight years, KSEB will unaertake to expense about
Rs 270 million in intangible assets which represent works undertaken on
projects that have since been aropped from its investment program.  KSEB
will also review its suspense accounts and allocate to other accounts as
appropriate about Rs 500 million held therein. A comprehensive fixed
assets inventory will provide accurate tinancial records of KSEB's plant
and equipment and the information needea for operation, inspection, and
maintenance of all its facilities. Consultants to carry out this
inventory will be retained by KSEB by August 31, 1985. GOK's loans to
XSEB are "1perpetual" loans that carry no specific maturity periods.  KSEB
is more than five years in arrears in paying interest on GOK loans: as of
March 31, 1984, its interest arrears, which are classi1ied as current
liabilities, amounted to about Rs 380 million. KSEB cannot meet these
arrears vithin the next year without jeopardizing its liquidity. GOK has
undertaken to subordinate payments of interest arrears on these perpetual
loans, as well as repayments of principal, to investment requirements for
projects in GOI's approved Five-Year Plan. This protects KSEB's liquidity
position and enables these liabilities to be treated as equity, for the
purpose of financial analysis. GOK will also subordinate about Rs 428
million in arrears in taxes payable by KSEB in the same way. These
adjustments will bring KSEB's debt-equity ratio to a conservative 40:60 by
the end of 1985/86.
67.     The measures in the third category of financial recovery have to
do with the establishment of annual tinancial performance targets for
KSEB. In negotiations for the recently-approved Chandrapur Thermal Power
Project, GOI requested that the measure of an SEB's financial pertormance
be based upon the recently incorporated earnings provisions in the Act.
These provisions require tnat an SEB's total revenues produce a surplus of
not less than 3% of the SEB's net fixed assets in service at the beginning
of the year, after meeting all expenses properly chargeable to revenues,
incluaing operating, maintenance, and management expenses; taxes on income
and profits; depreciation; and interest payable on all debentures, bonds,
and loans. On the basis of agreed definitions of the terms involved in
the calculation of the surplus, the minimum target of 3% would yield
acceptable levels of financial perlormance. Accordingly, KSEB will ensure
that, beginning with financial year 1985/86, it will achieve the required
3X annual return (Section 3.05 of Project Agreement). This level of
return would imply average annual tarift increases to 1994/95 of about 9%,
an average annual conventional rate of return on historically valued
assets of about 13.2X, ana an average annual self-financing ratio of about
33%. A second measure in this category concerns accounts payable and
accounts receivable. In both areas, the amounts outstanding are beyond an
acceptable level. KSEB will undertaKe to maintain, rrom 1985/86, its
accounts payable to a level equivalent to the previous two months'
operating expenses and capital expenditures, net of those capital



expenditures financed through suppliers' credits. Accounts receivable
will be maintained at less than the equivalent of 2.5 months' electricity
sales in 1985/86, and 2 months' sales thereafter.
68.     The measures in the fourth category of financial recovery concern
KSEB's tariff structure, which is extremely complex. At present, it
consists of many subdivisions of consumer categories and complicated
adjustment formulae all of which make the system difficult for consumers
to understand and for KSEB to administer. The structure is not related to
the underlying cost of electricity supply. KSEB's consumers pay excise
taxes in addition to tariffs, the amounts depending upon the consumption
and consumer category. The average tariff per consumer in 1984/85, across
all consumer categories, was about 40 paise/kWh; the long-run marginal
cost of power in the Southern Region is estimated at about 70 paise/krh.
To address these problems, KSEB will carry out a study on the
simplification of its tariffs, with a view to restructuring its tariffs on
the basis of recommendations arising from the study. KSEB will retain the
consultants required to carry out the study by December 31, 1985.
69.     KSEB's financial requirements for the period 1985/86 through
1989/90, the project implementation period, are estimated at Rs 10,316
million (US$860 million). KSEB will finance 30Z of its investment program
from its own resources, the remaining 70% to be provided from borrowings
from GOK and other sources, and from onlent Bank funds. The proposed
project is expected to account for about 38% of KSEB's investment program
for the period.
Project Justification and Risks
70.     The proposed project is justified as part of the least-cost
expansion program for the Southern Region. An analysis of alternatives
for installed capacity, number of units, and place of the scheme in the
Southern Region's development plan has indicated that the proposed plant
would provide the least-cost option. According to analyses of
alternatives for the transmission lines, reactive power compensation
facility, and distribution works, these too would contribute to the
least-cost development of the system. The economic rate of return for the
program would be about 13%, if benefits are based on incremental revenues
at average retail tariffs and quantifiable industrial and agricultural
consumers' surplus. The actual rate of return is likely to be
considerably higher if domestic consumers' surplus or industrial output
made possible by the alleviation of power shortages is taken into account.
71.     There are no extraordinary technical risks associated with the
project, since the works to be constructed are well within the bounds of
known engineering technology. Geological investigations and initial
excavation of the headrace tunnel have confirmed the expected excellent
rock formation prevalent throughout the area. No special difficulties are
therefore expected for the tunneling works.  KSEB has sufficient staff
experienced in supervising and executing works similar to most of those
proposed in the project. Consultants' support will be provided for those



-26-
areas in which KSEB's experience is limited, to minimize any undue risks
in this regard.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and GOK, and the Report of the
Conmnittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
74.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 22, 1985



ANII= I
ra8 g- I f s
T A I L I tA
MT                       (MT UINENT KITATI)
await    1,7Olk       RICKx               LOW IN WDU uD                   c
ZT IMATU&        AUIA A PASIPIC        ALIA & PACIFIC
A  cinai m _. m)-
TOTAL                                3267.4    327.6        3287.4
ACRULTURAL                           1763.3    1730.3       iaii..
Go 33 CAPIZA CU$)                         60.0      100.0       260.0            276.6                   1091.2
(KILCRANU  Or CIL IUIVALENT)           79.0      113.0       156.0           172.0                     567.3
MPMZAUN SND VTAL ITNUT
POPULATIONMID-UAR (TVOUIAO)    434U49.0  3473H9.0   716913.0
USUA POPULATION (2 O TOTAL)            14.0       19.3        24.1             21.7                     34.7
POPULATION PROJCCTIONS
POPULATIO  IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                             394.4
STAT NAM  POPULATION (KILL)                               1707.2
POPULATIN NOENNION                                           1.7
POPULATION DEcSITY
PER SQ. 34.                         132.3      166.6       213.4            166.6                    261.9
PM SQ. KR. ACRi. LUD                246.6      307.3       387.1           345.5                    1735.1
POPULATION AGE SMUCTCPZ CZ)
0-14 YRS                            40.9       42.7        39.3             35.6                     39.0
13-64 116                            34.5       54.2        57.6            59.8                      57.6
65 AND AOVE                           4.6        3.1         3.1              4.3                      3.3
POPUATION CROWN  RATE (x)
TOTAL                                 1.8        2.1         2.2              1.9                      2.3
UnAN                                  2.5        3.3         3.9             4.1                       4.3
CRUDE BEIM RATE (PER TIIS)             47.7       41.4        34.2            27.7                      30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE R THOUS)          23.3       17.8        12.7            10.1                       9.S
CROSS REPROWICTION RATE                 2.9        2.6         L.2              1.8                      2.0
FAITLY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS. AINUAL (TRomS)            64.0    37B2.0       6826.0
USERS (S OF HARRIED WON)               ..       11.7        28.0                                      52.7
FOOD A moanr
INDEX OF FOOD PROC. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          98.0      102.o       101.0           112.8                     123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (f OP REUIREEIITliSI        96.0       91.0        H6.0            97.7                     114.4
ROTEINS (CRAIS PER MAY)              54.0       50.0        46.0            56.8                      57.0
OF WHICH ANDUIL AND PULSE          17.0       13.0        13.0 7c          14.9                     14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2       20.7        11.0             9.8                       7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          42.5       47.5        54.6            60.0                      60.4
ILFANt NORT. RATE (PER TOUS)          165.0      139.0       94.0             13.8                      66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPoF)
TOtAL                                  ..       17.0        33.0 7d         32.9                      37.0
URB1411                                 .       60.0        33.0 Td         70.9                      54.3
RURAL                                  ..        6.0        20.0 d          22.1                      26.6
ACCESS TO EICRLTA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  .        18.0        20.0 Ie          18.1                     41.3
URBAN                                  .        85.0        37.07;          72.3                      47.6
RUIRAL                                 .         1.0         2.0 1.          4.6                      33.3
POPULATION PER PSYSICIAN             4850.0    4390.0       3690.0 It       34U.2                     7749.*
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             10980.0 jL  7420.0      5460.0o7T       4793.1                    2460.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL ME
TOTAL                              2180.0    1650.0       1290.0 7f        1066.5                   1044.2
URBAN                                  ..         ..       370.0 7ir       298.0                     651.2
RURAL                                  ..         ..    io41i.O           5"3.4                     2594.6
AiDISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED              ..         ..         ..               ..                      27.J
ROSINC
AVERACE SUZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2        5.6         5.2 I..
URBAN                                 5.2        5.6         6.8 7;
RURAL                                 3.2        5.6b        5.3              ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSlROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6        2.8
URBMA                                 2.6        2.B
RURAL                                 L.6        2.8
ACCES TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  -
UR.N. ..                                                                     ..
RURAL                                  ..         ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TA B L E 3A
INDIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAht SKETr
INDIA                              REFFREEce CROUPS (GiE IGHTED AVZRACES) /
MOST                    (MOST RICENT ESTLN(ATE) b
RECENT            LOW INCXlI MIDDLF INCO1
1960/b    i,9OLk    ESTIiAiiL        ASIA 16 PACIFIC       ASLA & PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENr RATIOS
PRIMRY:  TOTAL                      61.0      73.0       79.0            97.4                    102.0
MALE                     00.0      90.0        93.0           110.5                   105.9
FEMALE                   40.0      56.0        64.0            83.7                    98.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   20.0       26.0       30.0            35.9                    46.0
HALE                     30.0      36.0        39.0            44.6                    48.7
FEMLE                    10.0      15.0        20.0            26.8                    43.1
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)           2.8        1.0        0.7 to          2.2                    17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDAY                               46.0      41.0       54.0            38.5                     31.8
SECONDARY                           16.0      21.0         ..            1P.7                     23.5
ADJLT LITERACY RATE (Z)              27.8       34.1       36.2            53.4                    72.9
co sw r o 
PASSENCER CARSITHOUSAND POP           0.6        1.1        1.4 lh          0.9                    10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          4.9       21.5       43.6           112.1                   113.6
TV RECEIVERS/TUOUSAND POP             0.0        0.0        1.7            15.7                    50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CItCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             10.6      16.2       19.4 th         16.2                     53.9
CI'JA ANNUIAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       3.2        6.2        3.7 77          3.6                     3.4
LABCR
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (THmUS)          185951.0  219194.0   282169.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   30.7       32.5       31.8            33.3                    33.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0      74.0       71.0            69.6                    52.2
XNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0      11.0       13.2            15.8                    17.9
'-6RTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.8      40.0       39.4            42.6                    38.7
MALE                               57.D       52.4       52.D            54.7                    50.9
FEXALE                              27.3      26.9       .5.9            29.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.1        1.1        1.1             1.0                     1.1
C    DISTRIBUTI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHES! 5: OF HOUSEHOL'DS           26.7      26.3 /i    22.2 /e         22.2                    22.2
HICHEST 20: OF HOUSEHOLDUS          51.7      48.9 rI    49.4 le         48.0                    48.0
LOWEST 2m DF HDUSEHOLDS             4.1        6.77r      7.07ir          6.4                     6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6      17.2 7?    16.2 7r         15.5                     15.5
POVET TAROrT CRUM
ESTIMATED ABSOLUrE POVERTY INCOIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSAN                                 ..        .       132.0 lh        133.9                    188.6
RURAL                                ..         ..      114.0           111.6                    152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..        ..          ..              ..                    177.9
RURIL                                ,.        ..          ..              ..                    164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOi ABSOLUTE
POVERT  INXoXE LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                ..        ..        40.3 lh         43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                ..        ..        50.7 Ih         51.7                     37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NIOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population--eighted arithmetic mean.. Coverage of countries a_nn the
indicatar. depend. n availabilfty of data mnd In not uniform.
lb  Dales. otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Eatimate" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; Ie 1975; If 1978; /R 1962; lh 1979; /I 1964-65.
JUIE, 1984



ANNE I
____________                                           ~~P536   3   of   S
aa t.1=00.5     0.1 O .1 o    "IOSOaIUC  olsoMO  aooopo0089C,lo    wetGomonn   atOd IbSf am goO. Us lawo 09. omomoolco  00l09ll on
gacam maoo sgoo  1.00". sfeade. M ad  omotn."           M1 otsloagr dloioopmo  usWA   se s.
It ntolso   grimp  -  M  gm ama folipu one0 Of tall Whites m-oan  a1 gel o noe  on"  Aht            o   lh   00   tall       o le s oose, 1o=  af WA
=iiw omop i.e 'no tor ut Omoeftnsw are Swlag 01tMhd Stanbot Mitt mmCi). to I. R=00 h-aoo of sloor oooflaotwoq
oajoomoo~oe    .905m gt , 0 oh eafte   a  inogolsm  mosio   oalthoolee mo        V "oe on logmoop noe ~    t war o ~  S orlo  of Ohm mmusma  ioo
g.m.he  ot.joe  tIsjoCocO. Olo"m S    "o"0  0mooso           o   oiotCpoomo   ottttO  fdO  a   1 lov cSibem. moolo toOa 6
omoogto u"iodes 4cono   ci a  tojtr to moohc. ROsa, aiqn  am alpr wool io gosomc  WA   ots  Nof m raolooooe a C Itt Saooo oh* mom, Ia
IS.$                                      tw i'P.                - "PdslLmm d~~~~~~~~~~~iudew hp meloh r ofPeotimC
Iotomoaoo.k.    a rertoon   a ore a  Iot  omout ~mo."3ufft1Id'klUuIat..'? "  oat"  as am-tiop to"i
~~'  a  too. ems.                                                                       - liopotottdo 4155dm he~~~~~~L.L.idg  maer of pucttotor
kiIoS   btlimo of netmttosol out mod 11OuSontt ot PoiMmotip                  FMiUb'ildPto0.colua  un. olol melos ao
Nunpolso...tc OS.o  htItan  Meorn WOO Its fallnt low.                         romOq "a loano".
100 M M       Et Cos                                                               6t pl,rWnir:.ti . S  .            2ete MZet*  bonLsoa bost
fl.ffh39yjjL o -  p.   odet  ofarld - memos met.  ttom.l                       ocoblitottaIs  oIsagica001  55 ooetctoo  ooOpt.t   UfC
IM.snlm ntS adartido-.is..(106.  6.0)0eo ohllOter eotodi. topo.uio  ma ooGchitoma   =Poum0tyl 91.44
toe. reft, a  tea iso.                                       be ot moo~~~~~B mo shotism. too4hit  if o   Pootoo [be pOuoler  amoCo
..V-& 8.  - reFd-. -10000 a  a  oloo. .14beft.*3 .optsl.  hasoer,tt I                hPatot    ri..OWW1 
a ostooad    clonop  oites    fotoonet  eoto   O.goed    Ie    m    alt Ido w falor o,tloettowd.M
to,atm    s                                                               .Sin.sL nL             L -t.o0-h   ofon.iimolowilohoq
6" .9 orb. 1WJsaIel, poone.111qoommoro
%.~~RoooaaaleeeoL  I ina Wu
bHM!UpM,bhEVbakS~!k.. myOfI eo-o #SnouAIAl  of doss                            mAle as. mo. A. Boardor  Bedlose mt  so Wq  a  k. vlgohil I.
au" oieMOB 11000 tMm, a  Iot du.o.                                                lb. haSte   9  olo    oimt .1.  po,-o.
- br,aeo pog1t14a pa) ola&  m SaC - to                     %t05"..1Wrf.lN.02rz
a               a  a  a`tool. mtoallo  a:= ,.ltpflme    om                                     .U  W-ilto. osL.W. mogoo   .=mooo ad
emsbo. P-oj.et- pooms  i.e Moleottor um-  Reatn  of os.                           ocoa  Por0.
pao.1  poRabeon  oe- ra,,ortUlp mosIc b.c lhe   olo1                         S  o..ct,a    u   olo               poolste1.
stale pofoemom.to aoot        ab"h al'doo  -  o     o56   00
otoo of tlotl   afotullt  t..  toe etoootso sotnog.                              W.e 
modslg             - to a. to     O- =o os-.gerno m,stlo                                   -      L1               - Cfemo co.t. Mate aW 0ta
.1 .te5lgtz        .fi. o-gsfO  soltrcnm                                          o .0          .eyoa  So nuaoo. Of rasols.
Mom hm. olttoomm    -aoad a  Muofo           los  leoo                             wt00w ooll-oo  imowLeolmo  onot, tinlay  %00I=    q   0-It
oop,oaoo   teool. ft Ros  R 9potottm. 01iAt.   rose to omoomo                       m  us "J."" i.e dleioume a  ji   f oarteaw opomottso Fot
a  n.o:lO It. isos rot.. 0. qp .otos.- to otos .sc . a4 So                         meitt.  RUN0 mimtmid  -alF.rtto   ap  oto  IC              oo
Caere Rato I.  nr. to olsOn.. gimLosi  oh.. a- oms -l ad   Rh.                    sOn on  molt. Rn hIm -   skoo oh. Sf0.1..I om.
kolOs  ab Peojosa o6Moeftoct- at Sal coists So 16 pa.                            =sfatl-Bot  I   dtac-hoo        btoodr
*                            1000~~~~~~IN. Rad to eM, of attn,_    l.eoIltte Mo.  etoa bot.p-.                  sicos  mt..o  oo a.pmO Inasoi pompityoptlmoe
tssd    Im R hs ! .eoaa-lol .etlLloe  6. tao  o0o           - tn               net anile oF II Ro l1 -_n oea    em.d.oseo 
Is, _m doo  (a      oogeac&~tlseeal.at 6. mtinId aste. 10                         -OtLl, -moledS.
dm1005. ai.,eiobeg coo...t. o    no. I.. _j_Im_                                 lo_loCoeoogebat, ldp..otio. .o =oe  rvn fl-s11      neo-
....d. Lfto A... ~ ~    ~         ~         ~       ~        el.,       o~f  toloe,aJ6o.uoftcooo  00
OC pce poloto  o   mooIt... ti-t .c. .o   o                      n.fmiootC   a
p.alotooh55  1s.       6.feogtogelie 'oroo    fos odo  La o.o  codIt. tg.ao R50 on.    t)
raoteletathoo ~jefl.-eyi  ooui  -ot roo          -Loa Sd-               .411-IFw sIAota.
sos .olcda i  tOiW.tiny-  *A  o-cl                                       040 60... Fo ..oo  -tis    teatten. sf mam.to   s
W.Aas- 1- La o  dn.  soiCcm. s oIS-eoCooa 0.-beb  C-iA-   a i,,in                                          ea tio.a of ootoodoot . 9oso orCos
P.- M W i        I - -a  001-Oh            h-.adomlo.t    rt                                                 oWu           ootls   ol
Be   tsPo   hOk  erma   O"a-                        f5- toofooiCos o kg-m.eraa                 I    omhanna
i.e evotalt tom   coo,Ab1l491"do  P..                                      attn .lolett    timmIolsdWot C
ot C  - ao   oto  o oma          "Li osd-eno               09 to-our  foot      M.-c    Moootl M -- 1u TV to     Aot .osCtled
-Le ,su     II       tt.o dinobtoe. ow. sail .   to10  on. a- Iay pa    arosamol  1 0ctsd ao ofal
L     .sso    potO        .eos   em...ott                                    .Kot eoett   a1tg Vf1-11 ftoa  .a.tceco i- 5s  0        Wa.
eoeosny .ost mate ttsor a m  als  to 100. 310. -Wsm'"le . LEa i. Im-n  ssope-r                                atda    pselo
ros.riom ....-oaks   eeo..              i  inlooa  asgion                  ea k *.st lit  tg msgm- loo fm  lOm
vc.btu     o..ie"P        aI        "W r-Ia.           ~     .gomit   .,    pa.. tnto t..o  ats 00p os.  ginaL-   oo
te.ea ofmeeS mai -to-aoco of atolaC                   costt as..                                                  -ft
otomootog oo~~~ roe. Of aorocp.o.soo go sit notise  m                                             -Io.    eea,,*e
r:L9. - -                                                                                    f-I~~~~~~elot  o  lloo.tlogont    Ien. Natt    o00 a"st
W -1~~~~ O   -1 -1 ~   ~          ~          ~         ! -   iaz!M-           R. -O   M Wor.&-t-o.   -9oos
-re-   ""'d"). An m. rr.Cdatlne amCe os -                             .ao,t..mo.n lm n       a-Soo leaon to esoc.0  "It fegt. tl-s  -%.ll
mot..  sodo -     .ott # .01   nI .9106 m  maoO. Ion.iooO   1eo4                t         4-An~l-lb  Cr  o510   a.oe-.ot-ss
slmato-dlo.I   tm,prs.  fml ose6fhiii.aiea0 aWP                                                  U    ~      _ mtina   00- 0.1st -a taeefts"itoo tOe
fi -  mass! .mom ages. Ipet      lgI    Cotni.4tn   a- moo               memoora-
0015.                                                                  roflri,oeln kt-Sfar--ooC -I..    tso.nad5ft  C.a-tI..ole-1
6tmtt   af   f  bt  C goego.q of"'   emote~.aoso  -  ago   Io                      alow.yM  Reoa goa soooo  a. vat hated a noa.  toes earnt .0
cos  ooooa- M. -ob  P.nlnoiol  ooot pso co-ols,L-11                         pgtmld   st.  as.- me Itpoh ". etosb   se sit .o ma.tot
Co.-      ffMB   esgcoensosoeoooio  en   o                                         00  Of Oo add tylP"dos.. 16.. seat  f    nLt  .ft,l*  paotfl SW  u. So
M.ooos -   fitlbs.....   to appolisa  a         tota p  as   a.eIstot-ssua    'apmol.  Ctg   l   mC
maoe"tn.0 ml.  MS-t"o.tco.0 me Ihan loCm5.a   ol-i  sto   mI                                            It   a
oo- Thathid katz d ' 105-0  b10aI0ds.                                         10906 pIfllb..
L-i  o  o  sq  ay  t1  'Se      I    aila       tm                         psam-fCbasobOpr-a e- -. 0 ptomo                    P-mem    00 poem   o
intro-o. in  il-set    atetlalby -a. popold by   ass i.                        osto.ido.L
V,ttn sf00  maF of11- masttoosads Coy ad-Um   fnatm
ioa.eoti. o ea to gt.sV           W,ad      .obj pggoo. ili ke'RI-11   q                               t     t  -tt-edt. - 1
.cstC    a -    e 0  tInft g.m.4     1 tfo.! 0`nt-1iad hi.                        __s       .sl_  o eB .  na- gapo-sla_ coma of toss  lao. ad
S ai! ero.ton a  ooeors 05.5.~e-ea byrca o rk.-os. 61 tmre.tod  slo0madomt e  t                            . alto..
11(m a~ t           M1b.g tt i  11 M.L    - IS .e Cnkrt  tlmet IsttWAo  blgIs-In lss  .05  in   -Ie qsgIv. .lto  a- et.tot
o oos  I-searn,to ater.  t A        eoafem   Cgito                            ekelf -I-   -taoa-lo-  tods-t.ti               Z P... .wpe to..
0gla   Z4.51 toot fc  _reomo        -  -sno  COwes. Id-   soC. 
age   0-  haoi  tstato  a     . ioSeaPtatgoes
msom  st.  .0 potato. ofm Oki Mceonst .-        o!. a. fh
cobs sen a posit. rat-k - besosas tad~~0  n1tn 06.et   a



FAg 4 of 5
ECO9NOMC DEYELOUW- DATA
NP PER CAPITA IN IfJ3-US$260 ./
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983/84 b/                                            ANNUAL RATE Or CROWN (I. Constant Prices) S/
55(56-59/60  60/61-6/65  65/66-69/70  70171-74175  75/76-79        so 80U81-t2/83
US$ Bln.     X
GDP at Haikat Prices               189.81     100.0                    3.7          3.6           3.7         2.9           4.1          5.1
Gross Domatic Investment            45.94      24.0
Gross National Saving               43.17      22.7
Current Account Blalnce             -2.17      -1.5
OUPUT, LASOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value  dded (at factor cost)        Labor Faree i/    V.A. Per Worker
05$ Bin.                r             l.       r      uss    Z of National Averau
Agriculture                         52.5                  35.9         172.7     70.6    304          51
Industry                            34.5                  23.6          31.6     12.9    1092        183
Services                            59.2                  40.5          40.3     16.5    1469        246
Total/Average                      146.2                 100.0         244.6    100.0     59e        T5i                            <
GOVERUENT FINANCE
General Gevermoent e/                               Central Government
Rs. Bln.              of GDP                    Res. 8In.           X of GP
1938         1983/84   197    183786            193/        1983/84      1979/80-19831K
Current Receipts                   378.54         19.3            19.5             201.67         10.3            10.3
Current Expenditures               397.12         20.3            19.4             225.42         11.5            10.9
Current Surplus/Deficit            -18.58         -1.0             0.1             -23.75         -1.2            -0.6
Capital Expenditures f/            149.66          7.7             8.0             114.12          5.8             5.3
External Assistance (net) d(        19.16          1.0             1.1
MONET, CREDIT AID PRICES           1970/71  1975/76  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/12  1982/83  1983/84  January 1984 January 1985
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
roney nd quasi Honey               109.8     224.8   401.1    472.3    557.7   627.5    728.7    860.9          835.1          "3.9
hutk Credit to Covernment (net)    54.6      106.3    159.3   2DO.1    257.2    306.3    353.0    407.7         403.1         483.9
Sank Credit to Commercial Sector   64.6      156.2    255.3    310.1    366.4    434.6    517.1    612.7        575.5         685.0
(Percentage or IWdex Numbers)                         April-Jan 83/84    April-Jan 84/85
Honey and Quasi oney as a X
of CDP                            27.3      30.3     41.1     44.1      43.7     42.5     44.5      44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970171 - 100)                 100.0      173.0   185.8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6    315.2         313.6            336.7
Annual Percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7      -1.1      -        17.1     18.2      9.4      2.6       9.2        9:2               7.4
lank Credit to Government (net)    15.0       22.7     16.0     25.6      28.5     19.1     15.1      15.3       16.9 jI          23.2 h/
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector   19.4        22.7     20.3     21.5      18.2     18.6     17.7      18.7       13.0 5           15.6 hI
at  The per capita GNP estinate Ls at nrket prices. using Uorld Bank Atlas methodology, base period 1981-83.
All other con-ersions to dollars in this table are at the average exchae rate prevailing during the perite covered.
b/ Quick Estimates. Central Statistical Organization.
Sc  Computed from trend line of CIP at factor cost series, incl.tding one observation before first year and one observation after
last year of listed period.
d/ World Dank estimates of net disbursement of concessional aid and IBRD.
r/ ransfers between Centre ad States have been netted out.
E/ All loam and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/ Percentage change from end-Mrch 1983 to end-Jan.84.
h/  Percentage change from end-March 1984 to end-Jan.85.
I/  Tooal Labor Force sd percentage breakdown from 1981 Census.  Excludes data for Assma.
.



193T
Imporu  of  oeds /                      6,516       ,260       6,355       6,724       hataseis Goods                  1113      13
Imorts of Good. r                    -15,201    -14,230      -14,040     -14,501       TS                              469        6
Trad. Delano.                         - 5,712    - 5,000     - I         - 5,777       ONES                            10        12
mr? Cast)                               1.002        625         U4        1,066       Cloublau                         di        8
Leather med Leadur Produt.    343          4
Resoumru udlu                         - 5.760    - 5,3S0     - 4.7n7     - 4,576       Jute Mmufacth5 i                 269       3
Ifron r                         400        3
Iatareet Incomes Cet) i                   350    -   302    -   64    -   76           Cot. Textils-                    316       4
Nut Trma ferm jj                        2,317      2,504       2,Uo0       2,930        ser                             104       1
Othoe.                          3704      4
lalo  oe  Crre  Account              - 3,113    - 2,363      - 2,321     - 2,133
Direct Ine_cnt                             10         61          52          61
,,..t W.Ilr,,t       10         65          62          62    ~ ~~~~Total                        8417     100
Offical Loa  5 Grat. (net)              1,6e1      1.9Dl       1,651       1,944
Groo. Disbureum:ts                      2,269      2,5l3       2,578       2,3635      UTfAL 311T. WRACH 31. 1984
Amorti"tS n                               386        612         617         641
08S billion
Private '    ding (not)                   338        3S6         323        6,44
Ion-Samident Deposite                    260         578         903         600       Ondiebursed                               20.4
Transaction with IUt (net)                690      1,380       1.293          7f       Outstanding includi  Undimburned          31.9
All other Item g/                     - 2,Z64    - 1,522     - 1,347       - 6
7crnrose In Reserves (-                2,398    -   504    -   682         - 303         IT SERVICE RATIO FM 1983/84 J f1    213.6 par cant
.rose Re.erves (end yearl  1           4.461       4,96        53.87       6,130
Nt Rserves (end year) M                 3,497      2,089       15697       2,250
UD/Im    UINGD. MINLR  31. 1963 /
Fuel and Related Materel
US'$ SAIflu
Imports (Petroleu) g/                  5.553       4,614       2.983       3,026                                            Unl       IDA
ot whtich: Crude                      3,921      3.139       2,163       1,015
Products                    1,632      1,475         8OO       2,010       Ousrtendn  and Disbursd              2,158    6,902
Vndlsbursd                          4,326    3.748
Outstading Including  fndi.burmed    6,484   12,650
RATE OF ENCRANG
June 1966 to mid-Deceb.r 1971    :USS1. 0  - as 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US50.13333
Khd-Decer 1971 to end-Ju   1972:  0551.00 - Ia 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US0.137376
After and-Jme 1972                :  FlIatig lI-te
Spot Rate end-March 1984          :  USS1.00 - Rs 10.7181
ia 1.00 - 0SS0.0933
Spot Rate end-March 1985          :  0581.00 - an 12.3457
Rs 1.00 - 0580.OBlO
/ Esotimted
kig s uive eaeovr all invsetrmet incom. (at). Major payms are interet an foreign le  ad charges paid to IP.
and ajar receipts to Interet erned on farefls saeto.
1/ Figuree given  clad, workers' r_ttace  buut eluda  officil grat asascanc  which lu ncluded  dirhin official loan
ad grats, nd non-recident depoits which are  show  sepsrately.
aV Exclude net use of DI credit.
a)     rtixatioan   d intest paymets on foreign loaw as a perecnta   of total currnt receipts.
o)Inude. exchange rats adjustmnnts to th  valuation of reserves and f lancin  of m ialan   In rupee trde.
/   xcluding eald.
_q Net of petrolem exports



ANNR II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Anproval        PurDose                        Bank         IDA JJ     Undisbursed V1
52 Loans/                                             2,379.0          -
96 Credits fully disbursed                                -        5,589.2           -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0          6.06
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0          0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -           14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds 1                     25.0          -            3.66
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          8.05
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0          1.32
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0          6.34
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -            1.90
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0         32.50
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0          4.85
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0          -            1.37
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            0.02
.88-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0          23.31
806-IN    1978     Jmumu-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0          9.12
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -           16.0          2.29
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0          27.26
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         119.03
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0         14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Severage        -          38.0           3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0           0.40
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0          0.18
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power              -         200.0           0.06
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -           45.98
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0          26.82
899-IN    1979     Mabarashtra Water Supply              -          48.0           0.45
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          3.25
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0           2.70
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0         14.41
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -           46.0         23.27
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0         16.81
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         84.89
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -           22.0         14.74
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         124.04



aNNX-I
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellation.)
Credit   Year of
Nok       Annuuval       Purnose                        hu            DA L       Undiburget V)
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0           6.28
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0          15.71
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          24.87
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          44.81
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                     99.2         -             3.96
1053-fN   1980      Parakka Thermal Power                  -         225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -            18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0           9.75
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0          35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0          19.31
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0          74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0          71.66
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0          33.13
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          14.27
1138-fl   1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          23.98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -         125.0          62.87
1172-fl   1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         243.01
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0         -             8.60
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          13.31
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIv                           150.0          -            44.73
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Povw- TT         3J0.0          -           264 07
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural -1t.       -           6.0           4.36
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization           200.0         -            76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5          -           248.98
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0          25.13
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          57.11
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0          22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0          17.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0         101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -           121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0         167.25
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -           197.04
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development      139.3          -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0         100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0          87.73
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         142.99
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          156.4         -           156.01



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III        -          147.0         128.60
1383-IN    1983     !4abarashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0          24.45
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission          250.7          -           250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            45.82
2329-lN    1983      Nadhya Pradesh Urban                24.1          -            23.80
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                  -          105.0          76.24            4
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0          29.14
1426-IN    1984      Population III                       -           70.0          65.63
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0          21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0          -           247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                      151.0          -           150.62
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5          -           241.90
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6          -           200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                -          125.0         116.47
1496-IN    1984      Gujarat Medium Irrigation            -          172.0         145.22
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification*          280.7          -           280.70
2442-IN    1984      Farakka II Thermal Power*          300.8          -           300.80
2416-IN    1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*      157.4          -           157.40
SF-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*         -          129.8         129.80
2452-fN    1984      Fourth Trombay Thermal Power*      135.4          -           135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -           36.5          34.99
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -           36.5          34.99
1468-fN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5          16.46
SF-16-IN   1984      Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5          16.46
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III        -          220.0         205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry                -           31.8          30.33
1523-fN    1985     National Agric. Extension I*          -           39.1          39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Dev3lopment*             -          138.0         138.00
Total                                    6,818.3    12,934.1
of which has been repaid              1,269.9        194.6
Total now outstanding                    5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        5,548.4    12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,575.90    3,333.48
]J IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
1/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
j/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



AMU-1 II
Page 4 of 4
3B STATEMIlT 0Y XZC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount (US$ million)
FiBcal
Year                    Comianv                      Loon     B        Xuitv    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -        1.4
1961            l.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -       .0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Nahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.;)      0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0       1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjima Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             ...3       -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            1Qt.8       -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.           1L.5         -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           R.1        -        8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      3.5         -       3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                          8.9       0.8       9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      20.5        -       20.5
1985            Modi Cement                          12.0        -       12.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS       251.9       12.9    264.8
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           139.1       6.2    145.3
Now Held                   112.8        6.7    119.5
Undisbursed                 72.8        0.8     73.6
__-              rn



ANNIX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
KERAIA POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the proiect
- About two years.
(b) The agencv that has prepared the proiect
Kerala State Electricity Boara.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the proiect
The project was first presented to the Bank in
September 1983; a preparation mission visited India
in February 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 21, 1984.
Ce) Date of completian of negotiations
May 17, 1985.
Cf) Planned aate of effectiveness
September 30, 1985.
Section II:    Special Beuk Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Establishment of a Project Cell by KSEB (para. 49);
(b) Development of a satisfactory training program by KSEB by
June 30, 1986 (para. 60);



ANNEX III
Page 2 or 2
(c)  Introduction of commercial accounting system by KSEB by
April 1, 1986 (rara. 65);
(d) Achievement or 3Z revenue surplus by KSEB from 1985/86
(para. 67).



An-x IV
Page 1 of 2
PROCR2KUNT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS MilLions)
Procurement Method                  Total
Proiect Element                      ICB      LCB       Other      N.A.       Cost
A. General
Land                                  -        -          -           11.2     11.2
Site Preparation and Facilities       -       4.3         _             -       4*3
B. Civil Works
Dam, Diversion Tunnel,               14.5      -          -            -       14.5
and Intake                         (8.7)     -          -           -        (8.7)
Read Race Tunnel (Under
Construction)                        -     25.5         -           -        25.5
Surge Shaft and Pressure Shaft         -      5.1         -            -        5.1
-     (3.1)        -           -        (3.1)
Powerhouse, Switchyard                7.3      -          -            -        7.3
(4.4)     -          -           -        (4.4)
Erection of Transmission Lines         -      5.6         -            -        5.6
-     (3.4)        -           -        (3.4)
Substation Yards and Buildings         -      U.5         -           -         0.5
-     (0.3)        -           -        (0.3)
Distribution Works                     -      1.8         -            -        1.8
(1.1)       -            -       (1.1)
C. Equipment and Materials
Turbogenerator sets for Power        61.6      -          -            -       61.6
Station                           (36.4)     -          -           -       (36.4)
Gates and Stop Logs                   7.0      -          -            -        7.0
(6.3)     -          -           -        (6.3)
Step-Up Transformers & 220 kV
Switchgear for Powerhouse          4.1       -          -           -         4.1
(3.7)     -          -           -        (3.7)
ACSR Conductors                      10.4      -          -            -       10.4
(9.1)     -          -           -        (9.1)
Power Transformers for
Substations                        17.8      -          -           -        17.8
(15.8)     -          -           -        15.8)
Circuit Breakers & Other Misc.        8.8      -          -            -        8.8
Equipment                          (5./)     -          -           -        (5.7)



A1NNEX IV
Yage 2 of 2
(US Millions)
Procurement Methoa                   Total
Proiect Element                      ICB      LCB      Other        N.A.        Cost
Reactive Power Compensation
Equipment                         23.0       -         -            -        23.0
(23.0)     -         -            -       (23.0)
Equipment and Material for
Distribution                      49.9       -         -            -        49.9
(35.1)     -         -            -       (35.1)
Other Equipment ana Materials         -       41.4        -           -        41.4
-      (15.8)       -           -       (15.8)
D.  Training and Consulting           -        -          -           4.1       4.1
Services                        -        -          -           (4.1)    (4.1)
E.  Engineering anc
Administration                  -         -         -           29.4      29.4
TOTAL                         204.4     84.2        -           44.7    333.3
(148.2)   (23.7)      -           (4.1)  (176.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amounts tinanced by the Bank.



I.  N  1  WJdAADfl14.
: t o   a   + s            _  _             .,,,!1t  \   ~~I N O I A   -
*A,dOnO4hE IF
,    \a \S              v~S       Y      /       __
CDC~~~~~~~~~C
KERALA STATE POWER PROJECT
GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION COMPONENTS
-  ZU.s    &/< 
0      15    j   ;"- l V  D
.,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
?lo INDA  S
U                           \ 11 ,>i-110 W__DC    It
__ __   ,     Z   V  X          ^{f220 &V SC DC
po Evscim-\i..                  \t 
E  E   E    mlvV                           - <-ltliet V  4
;   ; I\wonMl220 kV
a       2d     z "3        '  M"''-?Rs5s
2 ss   -[i  






