Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15546
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO.2582-IN)
APRIL 15, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division (SA2EI)
South Asia Country Department II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
Exchange Rate used in Staff Appraisal Report: Rs 12.00 = US$ 1.00
Indian Fiscal   Average Annual                  Calendar Year    Average Annual
Year           Exchange Rate (Rs/US$                             exchange Rate (Rs/US$
1.00)                                            1.00)
1982/83        9.63                             1982            9.46
1983/84        10.31                            1983             10.10
1984/85        11.89                            1984             11.36
1985/86        12.24                            1985             12.37
1986/87        12.79                            1986             12.61
1987/88        12.97                            1987             12.96
1988/89        14.48                            1988             13.92
1989/90        16.66                           1989              16.23
1990/91        17.95                            1990             17.50
1991/92        24.52                           1991             22.74
1992/93        26.41                            1992            25.92
1993/94        31.36                            1993            30.49
1994/95        31.40                           1994             31.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I Kilometer (km)                    = 1,000 meters (m)
1 Hectare (ha)                      = 10,000 square meters
1 Ton (t)                           = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 Kilovolt (kV)                     = 1,000 volts (V)
1 Megavolt-ampere (MVA)             = 1,000 kilovolt-ampere (kVA)
I Megawatt (MW)                     = 1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1,000,000 watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)               = 1,000 watt-hour
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)               = 1,000,000 kilowatt-hour
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA       :      Central Electricity Authority
CIDA      :      Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CMO       :      Construction Management Organization
CWC              Central Water Commission
GOI              Government of India
GOK       :      Government of Kerala
IBRD      :      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
KSEB      :      Kerala State Electnrcity Board
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
PFC       :      Power Finance Corporation
POE       :      Panel of Experts
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2582-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ......................................................i
Evaluation Summary .....................................................                                                                               ii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Evaluation  of  Project Objectives ................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ...............................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting  the Project ................................................4
D. Project Sustainability  ................................................8
E. Bank Performance ................................................8
F.  Borrower/Beneficiary  Performance  ................................................ 10
G. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................                                                                   10
H. Future Operation ...............................................                                                                        10
1.  Key Lessons Learned ...............................................                                                                   10
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table  1:    Summary  of Assessment ............................................... 13
Table 2:    Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ...............................................                                                   14
Table 3:    Project Timetable ...............................................                                                              14
Table 4:    Loan  Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and Actual .................................. 15
Table  5:    Key  Indicators for Project Implementation  ...............................................     16
Table 6:    Key  Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................                                          16
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ..........................                                                                           17
Table 8A: Project Costs ........................ . .                                       .. . . . . . 18
Table 8B: Project Financing Plan .,,,, 18
Table 9:    Economic  Costs and  Benefits ...........................................                                                      18
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants  ........................................... 19
Table  11:  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ........................................... 20
Table  12:  Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................                                                     20
Table  13:  Bank  Resources: Missions ...........................................                                                         21
Appendices:
Appendix  A:  Mission's Aide Memoire .................................................                                                               22
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report ....................... 25
Ms document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onry in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
rKERALA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2582-IN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kerala Power Project in India
for which loan No. 2582-IN in the amount of US$ 176 million equivalent was approved on June
13, 1985, was signed on December 5, 1985, and made effective on March 5, 1986.
2.    The loan was closed on December 31, 1994 compared to the original closing date of
September 30, 1991. Upon mutual agreement between the Government of India (GOI) and the
Bank, US$ 20.0 million was canceled on May 1, 1993, and US$ 30 million was canceled on April
15, 1994. Final disbursement took place on May 17, 1995 and the undisbursed balance of
US$ 26,424,809.73 was canceled effective that date. Thus the total amount disbursed was
US$ 99,575,190.27. CIDA cofinanced the project, contributing US$ 10.3 million equivalent for
the reactive power compensation component. GOI, the Government of Kerala (GOK) and Kerala
State Electricity Board (KSEB) also provided funds, and GOI's Power Finance Corporation
(PFC) is expected to lend additional financial resources to complete the project.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Ramon Lopez-Rivera (consultant) and Ms. Malaine Manzo
(Task Manager) of the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division (SA2EI), South Asia
Country Department II (SA2). It was reviewed by Mr. J. F. Bauer, Chief, SA2EI and Ms. K.
Uchimura, Project Advisor, SA2.
4.     Preparation of this ICR by the Bank and the Beneficiary was commenced during the
Bank's missions of October 1994 and May 1995. It is based on materials in the project file as well
as on discussions with KSEB officials and Bank staff. The borrower contributed to preparation of
the ICR by submitting its own evaluation which is attached to this report unedited.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2582-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
I.    As stated in the SAR, in addition to the primary objective of increasing the installed
generating capacity in Kerala and the Southern Region Power System of which Kerala is part, the
project when completed, will help to: (a) make more intensive use of India's hydropower potential;
(b) improve the performance of the existing system; and (c) strengthen the managerial, commercial
and financial practices of KSEB.
2     The project comprises: (a) the implementation of the Lower Periyar hydroelectric power
plant with a nominal installed capacity of 180 MW in three generating units with an estimated
average annual production of 604 GWh; (b) the construction of 525 km (413 km SAR estimate) of
220 kV transmission lines and six substations with a transforming capacity of 2,310 MVA (1,180
MVA SAR estimate); (c) installation of 500 MVAR (762 MVAR SAR estimate); (d) the
reinforcement of secondary transmission and distribution networks in three major cities in Kerala;
(e) the provision of training, technical assistance, and consulting services for project construction
management; and (f) the implementation of an institutional development program including
consulting and training services to KSEB.
Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The primary project objective will only be achieved upon completion of the project in
March 1997, after considerable delay. Systems improvement was partially achieved with the
commissioning of a key substation and energizing of some transmission lines.
4.     As of loan closing date, the institutional and financial objectives were partially achieved
with respect to: (a) improvement of KSEB's commercial accounting systems; (b) maintenance of
rates of return of at least three per cent; (c) regular tariff review and adjustments; (d) improved
revenue collections; (e) timely release of annual accounts, and (f) upgrading of its personnel
information system. Except for the creation of a separate intemal audit function, objectives on
management changes were not met due to reluctance of KSEB management and staff to change the
organizational and reporting structures within its engineering and operations units.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was to be implemented over a seven-year period beginning in 1984 and was
scheduled to be completed by December 1990. The Lower Periyar power plant units were
programmed to be commissioned between April 1989 and February 1990, transmission works in
April 1990 and distribution works in December 1990. Project completion is now forecasted for



iii
March 1997. At the end of 1994, progress was about 70% for the Lower Perivar hvdro electric
power plant and 40% for the transmission and distribution component.
6.     The major factors affecting the project include:
(a) Factors not subject to GOK's control. Neither GOK nor KSEB had control over the
performance of the Central Water Commission (CWC) and Central Electricitv
Conimission (CEA). Their consulting services were ineffective and untimely. CEA's
review of procurement documents was unduly long.
(b) Factors subject to state government control: (i) Authorization for KSEB to
implement tariff increases to enable KSEB to eam adequate returns were withheld for
several years. KSEB was unable to comply with the rate of return covenant from FY
1985/86 to FY 1992/93. The State Government subsequently agreed to a regular
review and multi-year adjustments in KSEB's tariffs which significantly helped the
Board towards financial recoverv, obviate the need for State subsidy, improve its
credit standing and meet its financial covenants with the Bank and other creditors. (ii)
Delays in securing forest clearances and land acquisition for the transmission works
were major stumbling blocks in project implementation.
(c) Factors subject to implementing agency control included:
(i) Project Management. The project was ill-managed. KSEB's project management
capability was overestimated at time of appraisal. The high turnover of KSEB's
Board members and executives in charge of the project weakened management
resolve to address deficiencies in project administration. In December 1990, the
Bank recommended that KSEB appoint a consulting firm for project construction
management. The establishment of a new construction management organization in
1993 resulted in improvements in construction planning, cost and quality control,
interfacing of contractors, and expediting of procurement.
(ii) Inexperienced contractors and subcontractors. The number of unsatisfactory
contractors was high. KSEB terminated two major works contracts for the Lower
Periyar hydroelectric power plant, and it took two years to replace the contractor. To
avoid similar experience, responsibility and accountability for addressing problems in
contractors' performance should be delegated to appropriate staff, including those at
the site. In addition, more stringent prequalification or postqualification of
contractors should be set so that inexperienced or overextended contractors or those
who lack the physical and financial resources to execute the work are disqualified at
this first stage. Low cost bids should be scrutinized carefully and unless they prove
to be the lowest responsive bid, award should not be made.
(iii) Procurement. There was an excessive number of contract packages, whereas
half the number would have been sufficient. The Bank processed 95 procurement
contracts for civil works and for supply of equipment and materials, and three
contracts for consulting firms. In all cases, the procurement cycle took longer than
planned, ranging from two to three years. The delavs were caused bv several factors
such as the excessivc- numnber of tenders. slow preparation and issuance of tender
documents. extension of the tendering period, low quality of the bid evaluation



Iv
reports, and the protracted time involved in KSEB's internal approval system.
Recommended improvements include: better planning and monitoring of the
procurcment process; packaging of larger contracts; use of turn-key contracts
especiallv in transmission works; and closer follow-up with CEA and other agencies.
Project Cost
7.     The project cost, including physical and price contingencies, was estimated in May 1985 at
Rs. 3,999 million or US$ 333.3 millionl equivalent. The total project financing required, i.e.,
project cost plus interest during construction, was Rs. 4,796 million or US$ 399.8 million. At the
end of 1994, the total project cost estimate was Rs. 10,062 million, and actual expenditures were
Rs. 4.486 million, for a balance of Rs. 5,576 million (about US$ 178 million) to complete the
project.
Project Financing
X      The IBRD loan of US$ 176 million was to finance about 44% of the project cost. The
balance was to be met by GOI, GOK loans to KSEB, and from KSEB's internal cash generation.
Assurances from GOI to seek cofinancing through suppliers or export credits or commercial banks
were given at the time of negotiations. CIDA agreed to cofinance US$ 10.3 million equivalent for
the reactive power compensation component. Only 56.5% of the US$ 176 million was applied to
the project. This is a low percentage considering that the loan closing date was extended from the
original September 30, 1991 to December 31, 1994. The project financing plan has yet to be
finalized. Flowever. PFC has agreed with KSEB to finance about US$50 million for project
completioni through thc Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project (Loan No. 3436-IN).
Disbursemiients
9.     As a consequence of the implementation delays, loan disbursement was much slower than
planned. Only US$ 99.6 million. or 56.6% of the loan amount, was disbursed and US$ 76.4
million had to be canceled.
Project Sustainability'
I n    Project sustainability is uLncertain and wouid depend on: (a) satisfactory project
completion. (b) havinig adequate organization, trained personnel, equipment and spare parts for
operation and maintenance; and (c) clectricitv tariffs that will ensure satisfactory financial returns.
The risk of more completion delays could arise from a number of factors such as : (a) if
management is not up to the task. (b) balance of project financing is not available; and (c)
contractors fail to perform.
Performance by the Bank and the Beneficiary
I I   The Bank's overall performance from project preparation through supervision was
satisfactory. Bank supervision missions called attention to the need for KSEB to engage a
consulting firm with international experience to handle project construction management.
12.    KSEB's performance was generally unsatisfactory. KSEB and its consultants did an
adequLate job in prcparing the [echniical information for the Lower Periyar power plant and the



v
financial documentation during project preparation. However, KSEB's performance during
implementation of the project works and of the institutional development program was deficient.
Covenant compliance was mixed during the first six years, and fairly satisfactory during the
balance of the period, due mainly to the 40% tariff increase in 1992 and enhanced collections.
Assessment of Outcome
13.    At loan closing date, project works were yet to be completed while loan repayments have
commenced, yielding an unsatisfactory outcome.
Future Operations
14.    KSEB is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the project when completed.
Staff selection and training, and issuance of manuals have to be made prior to project start-up.
PFC financing is being lined up to complete the transmission and distribution component.
Key Lessons Leamed
15.   The kev lessons to be leamed from this project are:
(a) The beneficiary's capability to undertake a project should be assessed realistically.
The services of a private sector consulting firm should be included as part of the
project under an adequate scope of work which include project construction
management.
(b)  Tum-over of top executives within the implementing agency should be minimized.
This problem, which is tied up to KSEB's personnel retirement policies, is
aggravated by the absence of an effective project management system in the
institution.
(c)  Proper project engineering including designs and adequate studies and investigations,
and bidding documents for major works, equipment and materials should be
available for review during the appraisal phase.
(d)  Procurement strategy should minimize the number of contracts/packages compatible
with project works, location, construction schedule, and cost. Procurement schedule
should be closelv adhered to.
(e)  Bidding of the major works, equipment and materials should start during the
appraisal phase in accordance with project implementation schedule.
(f)  Procedures for transfer of funds from GOI and state governments to implementing
agencies should be revised and more expeditious modes implemented.
(g)  Contractors for civil works, equipment and materials should be screened carefully
and selected through a rigorous method of prequalification or postqualification.
(h)  All clearances, including forest, and land should have been obtained prior to issuing
of bidding documents for the respective works.



vi
(i)   Attempting to reform the SEBs from within is not feasible. The project included a
very comprehensive institutional development program and the consultants'
recommendations were sound. But lack of management autonomy prevented KSEB
from implementing them.
()   Financial indicators ensuring adequate internal fund generation for the utility's
investment program should be covenanted.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2582-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Sectoral Context
1.    As of March 1983, India's electricity sector had an installed capacity of 35,460 MW of
which 61 % was thermal, 37% hydroelectric, and the balance nuclear. Annual energy generation
was 130,210 GWh. Demand for electricity was estimated to grow at an average annual rate of
about 11.5 % over the next decade which would have required an installed capacity of 103,100
MW and a generation of 398,410 GWh by 1993. In the Southern Region which was composed of
the States of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh. Kamataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu, and the Union
Territory of Pondicherrv and Lakshadweep Islands, the state utilities expected to expand their
installed capacity from 8,705 MW in 1983 to 22,800 MW by 1993 to meet the growing energy
demand. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) which then accounted for 12% of the
Southern Region's installed capacitv envisaged an expansion of its facilities from 1,011 MW of
hydroelectric capacity to 2,220 MW over the ten-year period. The project was part of the
Region's the least cost power expansion plan.
2.     However, actual additions to power supply fell significantly short of program targets at
the national, regional and state levels, leading to severe power shortages. Specifically, in 1993,
total installed capacity in India was onlv 69,800 MW with a generation of 300,989 GWh. The
Southern Region accounted for 17,422 NMW capacity of which 1,477 MW was operated by the
KSEB. The shortfall in supply resulted partly from major delays in the commissioning of power
plants and subsequently from lack of budgetary resources.
Project Obiectives
3      As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), in addition to the primary objective of
increasing the installed generating capacity in Kerala and the Southern Region power system, the
project, when completed, will help to: (a) make more intensive use of India's hydroelectric
potential: (b) improve the performance of the existing system; and (c) strengthen managerial,
commercial and financial practices of KSEB
4      The implementation and physical objectives for the various project components are:
(a) the construction of the Lower Perivar hydroelectric power plant consisting of a
diversion dam, including a spillway, with a maximum height of 32 m and a crest
length of 244 m, an intake structure, a 12.8 km long and 6 m diameter concrete-lined
headrace tunnel, a surge tank, a steel-lined inclined pressure shaft branching out into
three underground steel-lined penstocks, an outdoor power house equipped with three
generating units of 60 MW each for a total nominal installed capacity of 180 MW, a



2
ta'irace channel discharging in the Periyar river, and a 220 kV switchyard. The
estimated annual average production is 604 GWh;
(b) the construction of 220 kV double circuit transmission lines with a length of 413 km
(about 846 km-circuit) and four substations with a transforming capacity of 1,180
MVA to feed the load centers at Cannanore, Cochin, and Trishur.
(c) the installation of 760 MVAR of reactive power capacitance in transmission
substations to improve the electric system power factor;
(d) reinforcement of the secondary transmission and distribution networks (110 kV to 10
kV) in the three major cities of Cochin, Kozhikode, and Trivandrum, including
installation of 270 MVA of additional distribution substations and the associated
distribution lines, switching stations, and distribution transformers;
(e) provision for technical training, technical assistance, and consulting services to
implement parts (a) to (d) above;
(f) implementation of an institutional development program, including acquisition of data
processing facilities and consulting and training services to KSEB for (i) design and
implementation of an information system, including a commercial accounting system
for management and planning; (ii) an organizational and management review,
together with subsequent implementation of its recommendations; (iii) preparation of
a comprehensive fixed assets inventory; and (iv) preparation of a study leading to a
simpler and more efficient tariff schedule for the Board.
Proiect Changes after Appraisal
To facilitate project implementation, the Loan Agreement was amended to incorporate a
covenant for GOI to open and maintain a US$ 10 million Special Account. In addition, as part of
the Gulf Initiative to alleviate GOI's foreign exchange constraints, the disbursement percentage for
civil works contract was increased from 60% to 90% to take effect retroactively from September 1,
1990.
6.    In 1989 KSEB informed the Bank that the reactive power compensation for transmission
and subtranismission had been included under a CIDA grant to the GOI thus satisfying the
assurances given by GOI to the Bank to seek financing for this item of the project during loan
negotiations. The signing of this agreement with CIDA permitted reallocation of the Bank loan
funds to other projcct components. KSEB and the Bank agreed, subject to conditions that KSEB
subsequently met. that the loan funds no longer needed for the reactive power compensation be
used to finance extensions of the 220 kV transmission system. While not originally included in the
project. they were important elements in the project transmission component to interconnect Kerala
with the neiglhborinig states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The project was also amended to: (a)
increase transmission capability in Kerala through the addition of 140 km of 220 kV double circuit
lines, onc from Trishur to Palakkad 76 km long and another one from Cannanore (Kannur) to
Kasargode 64 km long, and of transforming capacity in 640 MVA at these two substations plus
490 MVA at Trichur and Cannanore substations of the original project. As a result of further
studies the reactive power compensation was changed from 760 MVAR at eleven substations to
455 MVAR at the 110 kV/66 kV end of 16 transmission substations and 45 MVAR in distribution
capacitors. The aforementioned changes resulted in a revised total length of double circuit lines of



3
525 km or 1,073 km-circuit, and an installed substation transforming capacity of 2,310 MVA and
500 MVAR.
Evaluation of Objectives
7.     The project objectives were at the time directly supportive of Government of India's
initiatives in the electric power sector which called for (a) the accelerated development of
hydroelectric power; (b) alleviation of power shortages in the Southern Region, (c) improvement
of the quality of supply; and (d) reduction of electric power system losses. These development
objectives remain as important and valid today. They are also consistent with the specific
objectives of the Bank Group lending strategy for the power sector at that time which included:
(a) the better use of existing facilities; (b) institution building; (c) improved planning; and (d)
improved resource mobilization.
8.     The Bank's involvement in the project was also viewed as part of a continuing effort to
support institutional improvement at the SEB level. In recent vears, however, the Bank has
recognized that such an improvement is difficult to achieve in the absence of a comprehensive
restructuring of India's power sector evidenced by establishment of an independent regulatory
board at the state level, private participation in generation and distribution, and commercial
operation of electric utilities. In the absence of these reforms, the institutional objectives of the
project were ambitious given the lack of managerial and financial autonomy of the SEB. In the
case of Kerala, the task of meeting the objectives was made more arduous by the presence of
strong unions which perceived any modernization of the Board's operations as a threat.
9.     The financial objectives were reasonable, although the covenant selected, a rate of return
on historicallv valued assets, by itself does not ensure that adequate internal funds are generated to
help finance the utility's investment program. The latter eventually emerged as a kev problem
faced by KSEB whlich affected project performance adversely.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.    The primary project objective will only be realized upon completion of the project which is
currently programmed for March 1997. Improvement in system performance has been partially
achieved with the commissioning of a key substation and energizing of associated transmission
lines. The objectives are likely to be achieved but with considerable delay.
II.   As of loan closing date, the institutional and financial objectives were partially achieved
with respect to improvement of KSEB's commercial accounting systems, maintenance of rates of
return of at least three per cent, regular tariff review and adjustments, improved revenue
collections, timely release of annual accounts and upgrading of its personnel information system.
Except for the creation of a separate internal audit function, objectives on management changes
were not met due to reluctance of KSEB management and staff to change the organizational and
reporting structures within its engineering and operations units.
12.    At the time of appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated for the Southern
Region power development plan which includes the project. Under the assumptions made at that
time, the ERR for the plan was estimated at 13 per cent. A recalculation was not made for the
ICR. The completion delays have postponed the expenditures as well as accrual of benefits.
Nevertheless, the project, when completed, is still expected to yield adequate returns in view of the
high value of power in the region's economy.



4
Implementation Record
13.    The project was to be implemented over a seven year period beginning in 1984 and was
scheduled to be completed by December 1990. The commissioning of the three generating units of
the Lower Periyar hydro electric power plant was programmed for the period between April 1989
and February 1990, the transmission works for April 1990, and the distribution works for
December 1990. By this latter date, only the excavation of the power plant headrace tunnel and the
power house had been completed and tunnel concreting showed small progress. The civil works
contractors, specially the one for the darn and the powerhouse, were performing unsatisfactorily.
Procurement for transmission and distribution works was proceeding slowly, and these works were
about two years behind schedule. At the end of 1994, progress was about 70% for the Lower
Periyar hydro electric power plant and 40% for the transmission and distribution components.
Project completion is now forecasted for March 1997.
14.    Project execution continuously experienced problems from the beginning and the project
was rated unsatisfactory in early 1988, and later between October 1989 and March 1992, and then
again during much of 1993. (See Table 13). A marked improvement in overall project progress
was registered for the 12 months just prior to loan closing date in December 31, 1994.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Subject to GOK's Control
15.    Neither GOK nor KSEB had control over the performance of the Central Water
Commission (CWC) and the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) which are GOI agencies. The
consulting services provided by CWC for civil works and by CEA for electrical and mechanical
works, were ineffective and untimely. In addition, significant delays in procurement action were
partly attributable to CEA's detailed scrutiny of tender evaluations particularly in the case of
equipment procurement.
Factors Subject to GOK's Control
16.    Electricity rate adjustments. Authorization for KSEB to implement tariff increases to
enable KSEB to earn adequate returns were withheld for several years. Consequently, KSEB was
unable to comply with the covenant on rate of return from FY 1985/86 to 1992/93. GOK
subsequently agreed to a regular review and multi-year adjustments in KSEB's tariffs which
significantly helped the Board towards financial recovery, obviate the need for State subsidy,
improve its credit standing and meet its financial covenants with the Bank and other creditors.
17.    Forest Clearance and Acquisition of Land. Delays in securing forest clearances and in
land acquisition for the transmission works were major stumbling blocks in the project's
implementation. Protracted land acquisition process and inadequate land compensation also
aggravated the situation. KSEB was also partly responsible for the delays as it was slow in
completing land surveys and inventory of land. In some cases, the compensation was also slowed
by fund unavailability to service payments. Considering that hundreds of kilometers of
transmission lines need to be constructed, the concerned agencies should explore ways that would
expedite the existing procedures and obtain the forest clearance sanction in line with the project
implementation schedule, but prior to issuing bidding documents.



5
18.   Resettlement and Environment. The project did not present major resettlement and
environmental issues. Resettlement involved no more than 17 families and their claim
compensation was satisfactorily met through a court award of March 1986. The families were
encroachers on forest land opened up by the Idukki hydroelectric power project access road in the
late 1960's. Some concerns raised on the hazards of electromagnetic field force from the
transmission lines were reviewed, and it was concluded that the location and proposed operation of
the transmission system were within safety norms.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
19.   Project Management. The project was ill-managed. While the Lower Periyar
hydroelectric power plant shares the normal complexities of all hydroelectric projects, its
implementation was made difficult by the lack of planning, monitoring and coordination on the part
of KSEB. Similarly, poor project management in the execution of the transmission and
distribution components was evidenced by delayed payments to contractors, glaring mismatch in
timing of delivery of materials, late deployment of erection crews and right-of-way acquisition.
KSEB was incapable of resolving quickly the claims from contractors. Some of these claims
arose from: (a) the Lower Periyar site flood of July 1989; (b) contractors' underestimation of
prices; (c) works stoppages caused by labor strikes; and (d) contractors' poor performance.
Efforts made by KSEB to resolve these issues were not successful. The high turnover of KSEB's
Board members and executives in charge of the project weakened management resolve to address
deficiencies in project administration. In retrospect, KSEB's project management capacity was
overestimated at the time of appraisal.
20.    Major project delays were attributable to the unsatisfactory management of the civil
works contractors of the Lower Periyar plant. KSEB was complacent in its contract
administration and did not enforce some contractual conditions related to subcontracting. It also
overlooked the application of contractual industrial safety clauses. KSEB failed to take firm and
timely actions to correct the slow progress of the contractors, their use of inadequate construction
equipment and construction plant, and employment of poor construction methods. The contractors
submitted changes on the construction schedules, and the contractors' modified schedule became in
some cases the latest "contractual" one without formal approval of KSEB. This placed KSEB in a
weak position vis-a-vis the contractors. A similar situation was noted in the case of transmission
works contractors.
21.   In December 1990, the Bank recommended that KSEB appoint a consulting firm for
project construction management. It took nearly a year to reach agreement with KSEB and the
Government on the scope of work of the consultants, and another year for tendering and awarding
of the contract. With the agreement of KSEB, the international consulting firm mobilized its team
in February 1993 and the contract was signed in April 1993. The consultant's scope of work
involves contract administration, construction inspection and quality control, engineering design
and construction drawings, and training including operation and maintenance of the project
facilities. While emphasis was placed initially on the Lower Periyar hydroelectric power plant, the
scope was subsequently expanded to ensure proper management and to add more man-months for
the transmission and distribution works. A new construction management organization was
established with KSEB having administrative control and responsibilities, and the consultants
having managerial and technical authority and control. Although some quarters of KSEB
questioned this approach, others recognized the positive role of the consultant taking into account
that an expatriate consulting firm was earlier engaged by KSEB for the successful implementation
of a large hydroelectric project involving one of the highest arch dams in Asia. The establishment
of a new construction management team resulted in some major improvements in construction



6
planning and monitoring, cost control, quality control, interfacing of contractors, and expediting of
procurement.
22.    Panel of Experts. KSEB established in June 1984, under terms of reference agreed with
the Bank, a panel of experts (POE) for project review of the Lower Periyar hydroelectric power
plant. KSEB reconstituted the POE in 1993 to incorporate specialists more in tune with the
activities and implementation status of the power plant. The performance of the POE has been
generally satisfactory.
23.   Inexperienced Contractors and Subcontractors. The number of unsatisfactory
contractors was rather high, resulting in delays and cost overruns. Major civil works contractors
were unable to sustain performance during the implementation of their contracts. The lack of
performance transcended the issue of labor rates argued by them. In the case of separate contracts
for the civil works for the dam and ancillary works and powerhouse and ancillary works, a known
national government-owned contractor ran into problems practically from the beginning due to,
among other factors: inadequate organization, staff, construction equipment and plant; poor
construction planning and execution; excessive use of subcontractors; and under pricing. Even
during the dry season the rate of work progress was minimal. Finally, after nearly four years from
date of the contract effectiveness, KSEB terminated both contracts. It took KSEB about two more
years to award a contract through ICB for the balance of the works for the dam and power house.
It should be pointed out that, in contrast, small contractors performed relatively well during the
interim period of selection of a new contractor for these works.
24.    To avoid similar experience, responsibility and accountability for addressing problems in
contractor-s performance should be delegated to appropriate staff, including those at the site. In
addition, more stringent prequalification or postqualification of contractors should be set so that
inexperienced and overextended contractors or those who lack the physical and financial resources
to execute the work are disqualified at this first stage. Low-cost bids should be scrutinized
carefull! and unless they prove to be the lowest responsive bid, award should not be made.
25.    Irocurement. There was an excessive number of contract packages, whereas half the
number would have been sufficient. The Bank processed 95 procurement contracts for civil works
and for supply of equipment and materials, and three contracts for consulting firms. Procurement
followed the Bank guidelines. Ninety contracts were processed through international competitive
bidding (IC B) out of which 12 were awarded to foreign companies while the remaining 78
contracts went to Indian firms. Goods sourced from abroad included the supply of special steel for
penstocks, gas insulated switchgear, and ring main units for distribution works. Two of the
consulting contracts were signed with foreign firms; one for the urban distribution studies and
optimization of the reactive power compensation and another for project construction management.
26.    In all cases, the procurement cycle from invitation of bids up to contract award took longer
than planned. The procurement period for some contracts ranged between two and three years.
Critical contracts such as turbines and generators for the Lower Periyar took 18 months to process.
The delays were caused bv several factors such as the excessive number of tenders, slowness in the
preparation of tender documents and issuing of bid invitations, extension of the tendering period as
rcquested b- bidders and acquiesced by KSEB, the low quality of the bid evaluation reports, the
protracted time taken bv KSEB-s internal approval of all procurement activities including bid
evaluation reports. Some areas of improvements are: better organization, planning, execution
and monitoring of the procurement process; better procurement strategy by packing larger
contracts; use of tum-key contracts especially in transmission works; and closer follow-up with
CEA and other agencies.



7
27.    Project Cost. The project cost including physical and price contingencies was estimated
in May 1985 at Rs. 3.999 million or US$ 333.3 million equivalent and the total project financing
rcquircd. proNect cost plus interest during construction, was Rs. 4,796 million or US$ 399.8
million. At the end of 1994, the project cost estimate up to completion was Rs. 10,062 million and
the expenditures were Rs. 4,486 million, leaving a balance of Rs. 5,576 million (about US$ 178
million) including physical and price contingencies. A constant price comparison has not been
made because the annual disbursements were not available.
28.    Project Financing. The IBRD loan to GOI of US$ 176 million was intended to finance
about 44% of the project cost. The balance was to be met by GOI, GOK loans to KSEB, and
from KSEB's internal cash generation. Assurances from GOI to seek cofinancing through
suppliers or export credits or commercial banks were given at the time of negotiations. CIDA
agreed to cofinance US$ 10.3 million equivalent for the reactive power compensation component.
Onlv 56.5% of the US$ 176 million IBRD loan was applied to the project. This is a low percentage
considering that the loan closing date was extended from the original September 30, 1991 to
December 31, 1994. Table 8B presents the financing plan at time of appraisal; the financing plan
until project completion has yet to be finalized. PFC has agreed to finance about US$50 million
of the balance of transmission and distribution supply through the Power Utilities Efficiency
Improvement Project (Loan No. 3436-IN).
29.    Disbursements . Actual loan disbursements lagged far behind the appraisal estimate, as
indicated in Table 4. The first disbursement was negligible and was made in the first semester of
the Bank 1987 fiscal year. Disbursements were always behind actual expenditures by several
months. The lag was partly due to delays in procurement and award of contracts as well as from
unsatisfactory performance of the contractors. Slow disbursement was also attributable to the
process by which Bank loans to GOI are transferred through the State and to the implementing
agencies. To finance project expenditures, KSEB has had to use their own funds and later claim
reimbursements from proceeds of the loan. Loan reimbursements in turn tended to become mixed
with the normal state budgetary financing for the entity rather than earmarked for the project, and
did not always flow in cash form, thus preventing the entity from maintaining revolving funds for
the project. The procedures for transfer of loan funds from GOI and state governments to
implementing agencies like KSEB should be revised and more expeditious modes explored.
Towards the close of the loan, in order to ease the liquidity pressures faced by KSEB in having to
advance finance project expenditures, and to help maximize loan utilization, the Government
agreed to having direct payments made from the Bank to KSEB's suppliers.
30.    KSEB s Financial Performance. Up to FY 92/93, KSEB's performance was poor, as
evidenced by negative rates of return (-3.9% in FY 90/91; -3.3% in FY 91/92). This poor
performance resulted in a very tight liquidity position to the point of accumulating large arrears
with contractors and suppliers. In FY92/93, GOK authorized a 40% immediate tariff increase to
be followed by smaller increases in subsequent years, representing the first multi-year tariff
increase authorization in India. At the same time, KSEB launched an aggressive collection drive
reducing receivables from about four months to 2.5 months by the end of 1993. The combined
effect of these two actions was a more comfortable liquidity position for KSEB, but which
nevertheless fell short of the investment requirements of the sector.
3 1    KSLB s Institutional Development. The project included the following studies: (a)
implementation of commercial accounting system; (b) organization and management; (c) inventory
of fixed assets; (d) data processing implementation; (e) tariff simplification and restructuring; and
(f) urban distribution and optimization of reactive power compensation. With some delays the



8
commercial accounting system was implemented. The reports for the studies under ( b), ( c), (d)
and ( e) were of good quality. However, most of the key recommendations were not implemented
in spite of the effort of the supervision missions. It became evident that management lacked the
necessary autonomy to implement the recommend changes and that there were parties opposed to
the changes. These included the employee unions, which perceived some modernization as a threat
to the employment of their members; some consumer groups reluctant to pay the proper price for
their power consumption; and GOK which did not want to relinquish control of the Board.
32.    The study for urban distribution networks in the cities of Trivandrum, Cochin and
Kozhikode and optimization of reactive power compensation was completed in 1990. The study
provided information on the distribution works to be incorporated in said cities as well as the works
for compensation. The portion on reactive power compensation was supplemented by additional
studies undertaken by the consulting firm responsible for this item under the KSEB/CIDA
agreement. A portion of the works for the distribution networks was financed by the Bank loan.
These works when fully implemented should eliminate operation restrictions in the system.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.    Project sustainability depends firstly on its physical completion, for which KSEB will have
to mobilize financial resources and on ensuring adequate provision for its operation and
maintenance, and having trained staff in place to operate and maintain the generation, transmission
and distribution facilities.
34.    The risks of more completion delays could arise from a number of factors, mainly if: (a)
management is not up to the task; (b) balance of project financing is not available on time; and (c)
if the contractors do not perform as required to meet their commitment schedules. The Bank has
agreed to assist KSEB in meeting part of the balance of funds required to complete the project
through an on-going lending operation for Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement (Loan 3436-lN)
with the Power Finance Corporation.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation
35.    The GOI's initial request to finance the project covered the Lower Periyar hydro electric
project. At that time the construction of the headrace tunnel had already started with local funds.
There was one identification mission, one preparation and one preparation/pre-appraisal mission
with the participation of economist, engineer and financial analyst. The identification mission and
KSEB agreed that in order to capture the benefits of the generation and to reduce electric power
system losses, the scope of the project should be expanded to incorporate the transmission system
associated to the power plant, reactive power compensation, upgrading of the distribution network
at three major cities, and technical assistance. At the time of project identification, substantial
preparatory work remained to be completed in both the technical and financial areas. The mnission
recommended that KSEB appoint a panel of experts to review technical matters of the power
plant, which KSEB did. KSEB also agreed to hire consultants to assist in the preparation of
financial documentation. The emphasis of project preparation seems to have been placed on the
generation works, and much less on transmission and distribution works, and financial matters.
The preparatory work was substantially completed by the end of 1984. The Bank's performance
in preparation was overall satisfactory.



9
Appraisal
36.    The performance at appraisal was generally satisfactory, although in hindsight, the Bank
should have required KSEB to contract the services of a consulting firm for project management,
including engineering, contract management, supervision, and preparation of operation and
maintenance manuals, from the beginning. At time of appraisal, engineering design and drawings
of the major components of the Lower Periyar power plant were generally at the bidding level. No
major difficulties were expected in the implementation of this power plant taking into account that
KSEB had experienced staff in the execution of a more complex hydroelectric power plant which
KSEB had recently completed at that time with a high level of assistance from an expatriate
consulting firm. However, KSEB's managerial expertise proved inadequate for the project.
37.    An urban distribution and optimization of reactive power compensation study was
identified. The Bank also identified the major institutional and financial areas in need of
improvement and provided technical assistance for the studies and implementation of organization
and management, conmmercial accounting system, inventory of fixed assets, tariff simplification
and restructuring, and data processing.
Supervision
3 8.    The supervision missions' performance was adequate overall. Sixteen supervision
missions took place from January 1986 to October 1994 at an average of two per year. The staff
utilized in supervision incorporated disciplines such as economics, engineering, environmental,
institutional, financial, procurement, resettlement, and training. The supervision missions reported
adequately on the implementation progress, called the attention of the Borrower, the Beneficiary
and the Bank to the implementation problems, and provided follow-up advice and many
suggestions. The Bank was constructive in its suggestions, in approving project modifications, and
in granting loan closing date extensions. The missions helped KSEB, inter alia, in the improvement
of bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and in establishing a general procedure for bid post
review in accordance with the Project Agreement. This expedited the Bank review of procurement.
The rclationship between the KSEB and the Bank was cordial.
39.    The expected loan closing date as per appraisal was September 30, 1991 which was
extended four times until December 31, 1994. During this period, the supervision missions
closely monitored implementation progress and status of compliance on a range of detailed
remedial actions agreed to by KSEB, GOK and GOI. Extensions were granted only after specific
actions leading to compliance with the financial covenants and project progress were taken. For
instance, the Bank agreed to a first extension only after electricity rate adjustments were effected
and forest clearance for transmission lines secured. The preparation and agreement between the
missions and KSEB, on a detailed set of remedial actions and project implementation schedule,
which was undcrwritten by the Government, proved invaluable. Significant headway in project
implementation occurred during this period as evidenced by a surge in project expenditure and loan
disbursement relative to earlier years. However, while satisfactory progress was noted, the Bank
decided to finally close the loan. The Bank instead recommended that to finance the balance of
works and supply for the transmission and distribution components, KSEB tap the on-going loan
facility for the Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement with the Power Finance Corporation (Loan
No. 3436-IN).



10
F. BORROWER/BENEFICIARY PERFORMANCE
40.    KSEB's performance has been generally unsatisfactory. While KSEB and its consultants
did an adequate job in preparing the technical information for the Lower Periyar power plant and
the financial documentation during the project preparation and appraisal phase, its performance
during implementation has been deficient. The major problems that have affected implementation
are dealt with under section C, Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.
41.   Implementation of the institutional development program was also deficient. While
management occasionally showed interest in implementing some of the key recommendations made
by the consultants, they were not prepared to effect changes in the light of the opposition of some
constituents.
42.    Covenant compliance was mixed during the first six years, and fairly satisfactory during
the balance of the period, mainly due to the 40% tariff increase of January 1992 and improved
collection efforts. A remarkable improvement was also achieved in preparing the annual accounts
on time.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.    The project outcome as of loan closing date is unsatisfactory because while the
institutional and financial objectives have been partially achieved, the project works have yet to be
completed.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
44.    KSEB is responsible for operation and maintenance of the project when completed. Staff
Nvill have to be selected and trained and appropriate manuals issued before time of testing and
commissioning of the installations. KSEB must have adequate electricity tariffs to cover operation
and maintenance expenses.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.    The fundamental lessons derived from this project are:
(a) The beneficiary's capability to undertake a project should be assessed realistically.
Previous experience in similar projects does not always result in good project
management capacity in view of administrative constraints and high rotation or
attrition of personnel. The engagement of a private consulting firm to handle project
construction management should have been done much earlier in the project cycle.
Inclusion of such services should be taken up during project preparation .
(b) Turn-over of top executives should be minimized due to its adverse effect on
implementation efficacy. This problem, which is tied to the retirement policies of
KSEB, is aggravated by the absence of an effective project management system in the
institution.
(c) Proper project engineering including designs and adequate studies and investigations,
and bidding documents for major works, equipment and materials should be available
for review during the appraisal phase.



1]
(d) Procurement strategy should minimize the number of contracts/packages compatible
with project works, location, construction schedule, and cost. An acceptable
procurement plan should be in place by appraisal and procurement schedule should be
closely adhered to.
(e) Bidding of the major works, equipment and materials should start during the appraisal
phase in accordance with project implementation schedule.
(f) Procedures for transfer of funds from GOI and state governments to implementing
agencies should be revised and more expenditious modes be implemented. Lending to
state entities through GOI and the states results in funding problems for the entities.
Claims for reimbursements against the loan for project expenditures tend to become
mixed with the normal state financing of the entity.
(g) Contractors for civil works, equipment and materials should be carefully selected
through a rigorous method of prequalification or postqualification.
(h) All clearances, including forest, and land acquisition for project works should have
been obtained prior to issuing of bidding documents.
(i)  Attempting to reform the SEBs from within is not feasible in the absence of basic
reforms in the power sector. The project included a comprehensive institutional
development program. The reports prepared by the consultants were of good quality
and incorporated key recommendations that KSEB was unable to adopt. In order for
KSEB to function commercially, GOK will have to distance itself from KSEB's
operations. This can be achieved by establishing an independent regulatory
framework for tariff setting and allowing competition in the sector through
participation of the private sector in generation and distribution.
(j) Financial indicators to ensure adequate intemal fund generation for the utility's
investment program should be covenanted.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT (LOAN NO. 2582-IN)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I         Summary of Assessments
Table 2         Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3        : Project Timetable
Table 4         Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
Table 5        : Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6        : Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7        : Studies Included in Project
Table 8A        Project Costs
Table 8B       : Project Financing
Table 9        : Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10       : Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11       : Compliance with Operational Statements
Table 12       : Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13       : Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial       Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                   El             E              El
Sector Policies                  [l                             E l             E
Financial Objectives             E1             [El            E 
Institutional Development        E              E              E3               E
Physical Objectives              E              E                               El 0
Poverty Reduction                El             E                               E3
Gender Issues                    E              E               E               lxl
Other Social Objectives          E              0              E                El
Environmental Objectives         E              E               El              El
Public Sector Management         E              E              El              [El
Private Sector Development       E              E              E                mx
Other (specify)                  E              E              E                E
B. Project Sustainability           Likely               Unlikely                Uncertain
(v')                   (/)                     (7)
El                     El
C. Bank Performance                 H
satisfactoy        Satisfactory             Deficient
(/)                   (/)                     (7)
Identification                   E                      [EJ                     E
Preparation Assistance           E                      l3l                     El
Appraisal                        E                       3l                     E
Supervision                      E                      l3                      E
HighlY
D. Borrower Performance                  satisfactorv    Satisfactory   Deficient
(7)           (7)           V/)
Preparation                               E             I              E
Implementation                            E             Eli
Covenant Compliance                       El
Operation (if applicable)                 E             E              E
Highly                                        Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
(7)           (/)             (7)             (7)
El            El[]E



14
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
There were no preceding Bank operations in Kerala's Power Sector.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned    T      Date ActualU
Latest Estimate
GOI's request for financing                                 September 1983
Identification                                              February 1984
Preparation                             1984                May 1984
Preappraisal                                                September 1984
Appraisal                               October 1984        December 1984
Negotiations                            May 1985             May 1995
Board Presentation                      June 1985           June 1985
Signing of agreements                                       December 1985
Effectiveness                           September 1985      March 1986
Loan amount canceled                                        May 1993 (US$ 20.0 million)
Loan amount canceled                                        April 1994 (US$ 30.0 million)
Loan amount canceled                                        May 1995 (US$ 26.4 million)
Loan closing                            September 30, 1991   December 31, 1994



15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Estimated in SAR            Actual             Actual as % of Estimated
Bank Fiscal     Semi-    Cumulative    Semi-    Cumulative    Semi-         Cumulative
Year Semester    annual                 annual                 annual
1986 1            5.4         5.4         0.0         0.0        0.0             0.0
11           3.8         9.2         0.0        0.0         0.0            0.0
1987 1            10.0       19.2        0.028       0.028       0.3            0.0
II           21.2       40.4        0.000       0.028       0.0            0.0
1988 1            20.0       60.4        0.875       0.903       4.4            0.5
11          25.4        85.8        1.477       2.380       5.8             1.4
1989 1            19.3       105.0      10.194      12.574       52.8           7.1
II           28.6       133.7       4.393      16.967       15.4           9.6
1990 1            19.7       153.4       0.078      17.045       0.4             9.7
11           13.0        166.4      6.150       23.195      47.3            13.2
1991 1            6.0        172.4       4.315      27.510       71.9           15.6
11           3.6        176.0       9.888      37.398      274.7           21.2
1992 1                                   0.779      38.177                      21.7
11                                  7.039      45.216                      25.7
1993 1                                    0.0       45.216                      25.7
11                                  6.820      52.036                      29.6
1994 1                                   7.972      60.008                      34.1
II                                  11.622      71.630                     40.7
1995 1                                  11.157      82.787                      47.0
11                  L              16.788      99.575                      56.6



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation'
[ 1.  Key Implementation Indicators in
SARI President's Report                     Estimated           Actual/Forecasted
Beginning/Completion                                   ||
|POWER STATIONl
A. Civil works
1. Dam, intake & div. tunnel       Mar. 86/Jun 89                       Dec. 1996
2. Head race tunnel                Sep. 84/Feb. 89                      Jun. 94
3. Surge shaft and pres. shaft     Mar. 86/Apr. 88                      Jun. 96
4. Power house                     Mar. 86/Jul. 89                      Feb. 96
B. Supply and erection equip.
1. Testing and commissioning
Unit No. I                      Apr. 86/Apr. 89                      Jun. 96
Unit No. 2                      Apr. 86/Sep. 89                      Aug. 96
Unit No. 3                      Apr. 86/Feb. 90                      Mar. 97
TRANSMISSION
A. 220 kV Lines
1. Idukky-Lower Periyar (35 km)   Nov. 85/Jun. 86                       Dec. 95
2. Lower Periyar-Trichur (101 km)    Nov. 85/Jun. 86                    Mar. 96
3. Trichur-Kozhikode (93 km)       Feb. 88/Feb. 89                      Dec. 95
4. Kozhikode-Cannanore (109 km)    Feb. 88/Feb. 89                      Dec. 95
5. Villanchira-Cochin (47 km)      Jul. 89/Mar. 90                      Dec. 95
6. Trishur-Palakkad (64 km)                                             Dec. 96
7. Cannanore-Kasargode (76 km)                                          Mar. 96
B. Substations
1. Trichur (400/220 kV: 630 MVA)    Feb.89/Jan. 90                       Dec. 95
Trichur (220/110 kV: 400MVA)    Jan.89/Mar. 87                        Dec. 95
2. Cannanore (220/1 10 kV: 320     Feb. 87/Jan. 89                       Dec. 95
MVA)
3. Cochin (220/110 kV: 320 MVA)    Jan. 88/Mar. 9 0                      Mar. 96
4. Kozhikode (220/110 kV: switching                                      Dec. 95
station
5. Palakkad (220/110 kV: 320 MVA)                                        Mar. 96
6. Kasargode (220/110 kV: 400MVA)                                        Mar. 96
7. Reactive power compensation
455 MVAR                                                            Aug. 94
45 NIVAR                                                           Mar. 96
DISTRIBUTION WORKS                    Jan. 86/Dec. 90                       Jun. 96
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  Jul. 86/Jun. 89                        Jun. 90
aExcludes preparation of tender documents and bidding process. The period covers from award of contract to
completion of contract.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key indicators for project operation were not identified in the Staff Appraisal Report or the
President's Report at the time of the loan approval in June 1985



.17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                at Appraisal/Redefined             Status           Impact of Study
Implementation of the      Training of Finance and        After some delay the CAS   Satisfactory.
commercial accounting      Accounts staff, post           was implemented. Delays
system (CAS).              implementation assistance,     were due mainly to the
supervision and review of the  structural organization of
CAS; assistance in closing the    the SEB under which
books of accounts and         there are no clear relation
compiling annual accounts for    between the accounting
the first two years after the  staff in the field and the
system is fully implemented   finance and accounts
group at headquarters
Organization and           Recommend suitable and         Very few of the           Limited.
management study           effective organization and     recommendations were
management structure, policies   implemented.
and practices to enable KSEB
to perform its functions;
recommend a staffing pattern;
review the internal system and
procedures; develop a suitable
management information
system; assist KSEB in the
implementation of the proposed
recommendations
Inventory of fixed assets  Catalogue and value the fixed    The job was completed   Limnited.
assets of KSEB; clear suspense   but the records were not
accounts balance to reflect true   updated. A new contact
and fair value of fixed assets;  was signed to computerize
develop a program for updating   the records.
engineering records for
operation, inspection, and
maintenance of
electricity supply and related
facilities
Data processing            Implement a data processing    The implementation was    Limited.
implementation             system in KSEB to meet its     done mainly on some
managerial, operational and   engineering applications.
planning needs
Tariff simplification and  Derive a tariff structure which    The study was completed    Limited.
restructuring              reflects as closely as possible  but its recommendations
the costs to the economy of   were disregarded.
meeting the demand for
electricity subject to any
constraints imposed by KSEB' s
revenue requirements, by any
subsidy or income distribution
objectives established by GOI
and GOK, and by
administrative considerations
Urban distribution and     Refine the engineering of the  The consultants hired by    It was the basis for
optimization of reactive   proposed distribution and      KSEB completed the        establishing the works for
power compensation         reactive power compensation    study in 1990.            distribution in the three
elements of the project; prepare                        cities of Cochin,
their technical specifications;                         Trivandrum, and
evaluate tenders;                                       Kozhikode. It had to be
supervise their construction and                        supplemented through
installation; and                                       additional studies for
provide general advise to KSEB                          reactive power
as needed on other project                              compensation.
related matters.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate             Total Estimate
(Dec 3 ,1994)
Item                                                Local Cost Foreign    Total    Total      Rs        US
RsMillion            USMI   Million   Million
A (Genieral
land, site preparation                               138.9         -     138.9    11.6  1,238.92    46.52
B. Civil Works
Power Station                                       425.6       63.5     489.1    40.8  1,523.10    63.25
l Transmissioni Lines                                49.4          -      49.4     4.1   128.01       7.53
Substations                                           4.2          -       4.2      0.3   566.84    21.34
Distributions Works                                   14.8         -      14.8      1.2   260.48      8.68
Sub-lotal Civil Works                             494.0      63.5     557.5    46.5  2,478.43   100.80
C. Supply and Erection of Equipment & Materials
Power Station                                       419.3      344.3     763.7    63.6   435.14    18.90
Transmission Lines                                   168.3      29.7     198.0    16.5   605.64    48.14
Substations                                         228.0       28.1     256.1    21.3  1,248.28    48.72
Reactive Power Compensation                          143.3     244.0     387.3    32.3
l     )istrihLt1ion1 Workls                         324.1      144.2     468.3    39.0  2,144.48    79.69
Sub-Total SupplY & Erection of Equip. & Materials    1,283.0  790.4   2,073.4   172.8  4,433.54   195.45
D. Training and Consultiing Services                    20.0       18.3      38.3     3.2   195.57       6.11
E. Engineering and Administration                      263.1          -     263.1    21.9   388.71      15.55
T'otal Baseline Costs                                2,199.0     872.2   3,071.2   255.9  8,735.17   364.43
Physical Contingenicies                                155.5      46.1      201.5    16.8       212      8.84
Price Contingenlcies                                   508.3     218.5      726.8    60.6      1115    46.52
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                   2,862.7   1,136.8   3,999.5   333.3   10,062   419.79
Table 8B: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local     Foreign        Total       Local    Foreign        Total
Source                                Costs       Costs                     Costs      Costs
IBRD                                   81.0        95.0         176.0                               99.6
GOI                                      -        40.2          40.2
GOK Loans to KSEB                      76.6         -           76.6
KSEB Internal Generation               107.0        -          107.0
IBRD Loan No.3436-IN to PFC                                                                         50.0
CIDA Cofinancing                         -                                                          10.3
TOTAL                                264.6        135.2       399.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
This exercise has not been conducted for the ICR.



19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
India
Kerala Power Project (Loan No. 2582-IN)
Agreement       Covenant type       Present     Original      Revised             Description of                Comments
Section                            status    fulfillment   fulfillment             covenant
date         date
LA 2.02 (b)    Financial            C                         June 88       GOI to open and maintain a      Complied
US$ 10 million Special
Account.
LA 3.04         Financial           C           Dec. 31, 85                 GOI to issue notification       Complied
prescribing rules for a uniform
system of accounts to all
SEB's.
LA  3.05        Accounts/Audit                                               rOI to have Special Account   Complied with delays
audited and submit Auditor's
report not later than six
months after FY end.
PA 2 01 (b)    Finanicial           C                                       GOK, on terms and conditions Complied
satisfactory to the Bank, to
relend to KSEB the proceeds
of the loan.
PA 2.05         Institutional                                               KSEB to develop a detailed      Complied
training program.
PA 2.06         Project             C                                       KSEB to establish and           Complied
implementation                                             maintain a Project Cell.
PA 3.01 (iii)   Financial                                                   KSEB to take out and maintain Complied
insurance as shall be
consistent with appropriate
practice.
PA  3.02 (a)    Accounts                                                    KSEB to maintain records, and Complied
l (hV                                                                      to furnish certified copies of its
accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year
PA 3.02 (c)    Accounts/Audits                                              KSEB to furnish to the Bank    Complied
(d)                                                                         within twelve months after the
end of each fiscal year its
audited financial statements
PA  3.03       Accounts/Audits                                             KSEB to submit audited          Complied
SOE's as part of the annual
audits referred to in 3.02 (c)
P'A  3 0(5      Financial           FY 85/86                                KSEB to earn revenues to        Not complied from
produce a surplus as is not less 1959/86 to 1992/93.
than 3% of its net fixed assets  Complied afterwards.
in service at the beginning of
such vear.
Covenant types:
I=  Accounts/audits
2      Finrancial performance/revenue generation from     8.    Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                      9.    Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds               10.    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4.     Counterpart funding                                11.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
5.     Management aspects of the project or executing            allocation
agcncy                                            12.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
6. =  Environmental covenants                                    action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                           13.    Other
S Prescnt Stiatus:
C   -  covenant complied with
CD -complied willi after delay
Cl 1   conopl ed wilth partially
NC =  not complied with



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title            Describe and comment on lack of compliance
I. OMS 3.80  Safety of dams                  The OMS requires that experienced and competent
engineers, acceptable to the Bank, be responsible for
the design of the dam and its associated structures
and the supervision of their construction. KSEB
complied with this requirement. In June 1984,
KSEB appointed an independent panel of experts
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to
oversee the technical aspects of the Lower Periyar
power plant design and construction. In August
1984, the panel of experts approved the proposed
power station layout with minor modifications
which were incorporated as the engineering design
was completed. The panel has been retained since
then and has conducted periodic reviews. In
accordance with Bank guidelines KSEB contracted
in April 1993 a consulting firm to supervise, inter
alia, the project construction.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                          Actual
Weeks              US$ thousands
Through Appraisal                                      45                   109.9
Appraisal-Board                                        7                     17.1
Board Effectiveness                                    6                     15.1
Supervision                                           195                    417
Completion                                             6                     18.0
TOTAL                                               259                   577.1



21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                       Specialized     Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of            Month/            of         Days in         Staff Skills      tation         ment          Types of
Proj ect Cycle          Year          Persons        Field        Represented I      Status       Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal
Identification mission   Feb. 84        2            9              E, FA
Preparation mission      May 84         1            3              E
Preparation/preappraisal   Aug/Sep 84    2           11             E, FA
Appraisal mission        Dec. 84        3            10             E, EC, FA
Appraisal through Board    no missions
Approval
Board Approval through    no missions
Effectiveness
Supervision
No. I                     Jan. 86         2           5               E, FA                  2              1         CP, FC, NP
No. 2                    Jun. 86         1           4               E                      2              1          PM, PP2
No. 3                    Oct. 86         1           5               FA                     2              1
No. 4                    Mar. 87         2           7               E, FA                  2              1
No. 5                    Feb. 88         2           5               E. FA                  3              1
No. 6                    Feb. 89         2           4               E, FA                  2              1
No. 7                    Oct. 89         3           5               E(2), FA, TS           3              2
No. 8                    Nov/Dec. 90    3            22              E, E (C-2)             3              2
No 9                     Mar. 91         3           5               E, FA, PO              3              2
No. 10                   Aug. 91         1            10             E                      3              2
No. 11                   Mar. 92         2           11              E, FA                  2              1
No. 12                   Oct. 92         2           9               E, FA                  3              1
No. 13                   Apr. 93         6           7               E (C-2), EN            3              2
ES, FA
No. 14                   Jun. 93         3           2               E, ES, PA              3              2
No. 15                   Jan/Feb. 94     5           5               E (C-I), EN            2              2
FA, 00, PA                                     CP, FC, NP
R                                                PM, PP
Completion                Oct. 94         1           2               EC, C (1)              2              2         CP, FC, NP
May 95         1           4               E (C-l)                2              2           PM, PP
C: consultant: E: engineer; EC: economist; EN: environmental specialist; ES: energy specialist; FA: financial
analyst; 00: operations officer; PA: procurement analyst; PO: project officer; R: resettlement; TS: training
specialist.
2 CP: construction progress (slow); FC. forest clearance; NPC: non-performing contractors; PM: project management;
PP procurement process (delays).



22                              Appendix A
Paze I of3
May 14, 1995
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT
LOAN NO. 2582-IN
WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSION
May 1995
AIDE MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        A Bank supervision mission visited Kerala from May 9 to
13, 1995 to: (i) review project implementation; and (ii) provide
additional orientation to KSEB for preparing its own contribution
to  the  Implementation  Completion  Report  (ICR).   The  mission
consisted of R. Lopez-Rivera (Power Engineer).
2.        The mission thanks the officials of the Kerala State
Electricity Board (KSEB) and the consultant SNC/Shawinigan for the
excellent cooperation and hospitality extended to it and for the
expeditious arrangements made for the field visit to the project
site. The mission held meetings with the Chairman, Civil Member
(Board), Chief Electrical Engineer (World Bank Project: WBP) and
senior officials of KSEB, and with the Project Director of the
Construction Management Organization (CMO) and members of the CMO
staff belonging to SNC/Shawinigan.
3.        This aide memoire presents the findings of the mission as
given below:  Section I deals with the ICR preparation.  The final
position of the Bank on the findings of the mission and conclusions
of the mission will be confirmed from headquarters.
I. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
4.  The loan closing date was December 31, 1994.  A Bank mission
or February 1995 provided KSEB with a set of the Bank's ICR's
documents  comprising  Operational  Policies  (OP  13.55),  Bank
Procedures  (BP 13.55),  and ~Good Practices  (GP 13.55 TOC))  to
acquaint KSEB with the procedures, and to initiate their own
evaluation report.  The May 1995 mission requested KSEB assign the
task of organizing and overseeing the completion of the 1CR to a
senior official familiar with the project, and to designate said
official as the formal contact with the Bank during the ICR
mission.   KSEB has assigned this task to the Chief Electrical
Engineer (World Bank Project) and to SNC/Shawinigan's Project
Director of the Construction Management Organization.
5.   The mission had meetings with the Chairman, Chief Electrical
Engineer, and the Project Director, to discuss the preparation of
the ICR.  Annex 2 of this aide memoire suggests the basic content
of KSEB's ICR. KSEB agreed to provide to the Bank any additional



23                           Appendix A
PaE2 2 f3
information the Bank may request for the preparation of its ICR.
Considering that the project remains to be completed, an important
contribution of KSEB is the presentation of the completion plan for
the project that details the measures taken and to be taken -to
ensure its completion.
6.   KSEB has agreed to submit their ICR to the Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Ministry by July 31, 1995, with copy
to the Bank. The mission expects that DEA will send the ICR to the
Bank by September 30, 1995.



24                              Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
ANNEX A
BORROWER'S/KSEB'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
As an input to the Bank's ex-post evaluation of its
operations, the Borrower/GOK/KSEB prepare and make available to the
Bank its own evaluation report on the preparation, execution, and
initial zoeration of the project. This contribution will be
integrated verbatim (or in a summary if the report is longer than
ten pages) into the Bank's ICR. It should include:
(i)  -he Borrcwer's/GOK's/KSE3's assessment of the of the
projects object:ves,engineering design, implementation,
and operation.
(ii) an  evaluation  of  the  3orrower's/GOK's/KSE3's  own
performance during project preparation,implementation,
initial operation with emphasis on lessons learned that
may be relevant in the future; and
(iii)the Borrower's/GOK's/KSEB's evaluation of the Bank in the
course of the evolution and implementation of the
project, including the effectiveness of the relationship
between the 3orrower/G0K/KSEB, with szecial emphasis on
lessons learnea.
The following table is the outline of the Bank's ICR. It would
be helpful if the Borrower/GOK/KSEB would crganize its own report
along similar lines:
Project 7mplement.ation Assessment
Project 3bjecz-v-es and evaluation tnereof
IplementG-'on rExperience and Resul7s
Project Success and Sustainability
Institutional Arrangements
Implementation Schedule
Major Factors Affecting Project Schedule and Analysis thereof
Assessment cf Bank Performance
Assessment cf Borrower/GOK/KSEb Performance
Assessment of Project Outcome
Summarv of Findings and Future Operation
Findings cf Project :mplementation Experience
Future Project Operation
Lessons Learned
kerlaide.m95



Appendix B
Page I of 8
25
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT
(IBRD 2582-IN!
PREFACE
This is the project completion report (PCR) for the Kerala Power Project in India,
for which loan IBRD 2582 IN in the amount of US Dollar 176 Million was approved on
December 5th 1985. The loan was made to India, acting by its president. The
Government of India was to make available the proceeds of the loan to Government of
Kerala as part of Central assistance to Kerala State for Development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time. GOK was to onlend the fund provided by GOI together
with its own resources to KSEB.
The loan was for 20 years including 5 years grace at the Banks standard variable
interests. The loan from GOK to KSEB was for 20 years including 5 years grace at
GOK's interest rate applicable at the time for its lending to KSEB but not less than
1 0 75% GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The loan closing date was 30th September 1991. Since there was delay in starting
the project work, the project could not be completed by that time. Bank has extended the
closing date upto 31/12/1992 vide Bank's telex dated 5.2.1992. Again closing period
extended upto 3 1/12/1993 vide telex dated 14/1/1993. Further the loan period extended
upto 31/3/1994 vide telex dated 7/1/1994. Finally Bank extended the loan period upto
31/12/1994. Vide telex dated 24/5/1994. The loan amount was reduced to 156 MUS $
Vide letter dated 20/7/1993 and again the loan amount was reduced to 126 MUS $ vide
letter dated 24/5/1994. Hence total of 50 MULS $ were cancelled. Disbursement under
the loan were 100 MUS $ (approx.), which India will reimburse during the period from
December 1990 to June 2005.



Appendix B
26                                    Page 2 of 8
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
PROJECT COMNLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA POWER PROJECT
(IBRD 2582-IN!
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
The primary objective of the project was to increase the installed capacity in Kerala
and the SRPS. In addition to this the project were intended to make more intensive use of
India's hydro power potential, improve the performance and efficiency of the existing
system and to strengthen managerial, commercial and financial practices of Kerala, in
addition to this to improve the power supply position in North Kerala.
Project Description
The lower periyar HE Project in the Idukki District of Kerala consists of a
Diversion dam in take, head race tunnel, penstocks and a power house equipment with 3
generating units of 60 MW each.
The transmission line consists of the following:
Length in Km.
Idukki - Lower Periyar                        35    (35)
Lower Periyar - Thrissur                     100   (100)
Thrissur - Kozhikode                          90   (115)
Kozhikode - Kannur                           108    (98)
Lower Periyar - Kochi                         56    (65)
Thrissur - Palakkad                           83       *
Kannur - Kasargode                            76       *
548   (413)
Note:- Figures in parentheses represent the line length at the time of appraisal.
* Subsequently added



Appendix B
Page 3 of 8
27
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Substation under the project are as follows:-
Thrissur           (420MVA    400/220        2x3 1 5MVA   400/220
400 KV             320MVA       220/110)    2x200MVA   200/110
Kannur
220 KV             (I20MVA    220/110)       2x16OMVA   220/110
Kochi
220 KV             (320MVA    220/110)       2x16OMVA   220/110
Kozhikode
220KV              (existing S/S need to
modified to receive 220KV   220 KV switching station
DC line from Thrissure)
Palakkad
220KV              *                         2x 160MVA 220/110
Kasargode          x                         2x160MVA 220/110
Note.- Figures in parentheses represent the capacity of station at the time of appraisal
*S,ubsequently added
Since modification of the existing station at Kozhikode was found impossible due
to Non-availability of land and as per court order no new lines are allowed to be
constructed around the existing Substation it was proposed to construct a 220 KV
Switching station at Kozhikode.
Shortage of adequate transmission lines to the northern region of the state has
been causing problems of low voltage, overloading and poor reliability, it was proposed to
construct palakkad and kasargode 220KV Substations and connecting Thrissur palakkad
and Kannur-Kasargode 220 KV lines. The loan amount available due to the transfer of
reactive power compensation from World Bank to CIDA assistance, it was proposed to
utilise the amount for constructing the additional transmission lines and Substations as
detailed above



Appendix B
Page 4 of 8
28
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Distribution works consists of
(A)               (B)               (C)                (D)
Trivandrum   1() MVA gas      26 Switching       2x1OMVA GIS       350 RMU. 350 Dist.
City        Insulated Substation  Station . 56 Dist.    2Nos. 2x1OMVA  Transformer. 154
- 2 No.           Transformer. 150    110/1 IKV        KM OH. 121 KM
KM Tr.&Sub Tr.    Substation-I No.    11 KV UG. 44 KM
66 KV UG
Kochi City   IOMVA Gas        35 Switching       2xlONVA GIS-     400 RMU 400No.
Insulated Substation  Station       2Nos. 2x1OMVA      Distn. Transf. 48
2 Nos; lx6O MVA    92 Dist.         110/ I-INo.        KM OH 142KM. 11
Substation        Transformer       2X25MVA 110/66-  KV UG 38. KM-66
135 KM            I No. 2x25MVA     KVUG
Transmission &    110/66 INo.
Sub Transmission    2x1OMVA 110/11
INo.
Koshikode   IOMVA GAS         28 Switching       2x1OMVA GIS-      200 Nos RMLJ. 200
City        Insulated Substation  Station. 55 Dist:   INo. 2x25MVA  Nos. Distribution
and 60MVA         Transformer. 60   110/66 INo.        Transformer 19 KM
Substation        KM Transmission    2xlOMVA 110/11    OH 86 KM. 11 KV
and Sub           I No.             UG 20 KM. 66 KV
Transmission
Note:- Details ini columtns (A) & (B) represent the capacity of station and details at the
time of appraisal.
As per the Distribution studv conducted by the Consultant - A French Company -
Changes in capacity of Stations and length of lines are necessitated for the distribution
works:-
The work of installation of 760 MVAR of reactive compensation to improve the
system power factor subsequently transferred to CIDA assistance from World Bank Aid.
Additional transmission lines and Substation included in this project to utilise the World
Bank loan resulted due to the transfer.
For Training, technical assistance and consulting services to implement the project,
a A Human Resources Cell formed under a Chief Engineer to give training to staff. KSEB
appointed consultant French Company for the study of Distribution works. KSEB
appointed consultant for supervising the construction of Lower Periyar HE work.
With the assistance of consultant, KSEB has introduced commercial accounting
system from April 86 and accounts are prepared as per the Annual Accounts Rules 1985.



Appendix B
Page 5 of 8
29
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Organisation and management study Phase I and Phase II was conducted by the
consultant.
Consultants have appointed for inventorisation and valuation of fixed assets. As a
result Board is now in a position to ascertain the value of its fixed assets on a given date.
Data processing study conducted by the consultant. In the account using
computerisation has been carried out in a phased manner. Specification for the Hardware
to be procured have been finalised and the tenders under evaluation. Orders for Hardware
will be placed shortly.
As per Tariff simplification and restructuring study conducted by the consultant-
London Company - Tariff of KSEB revised thrice. The present tariff structure enables
KSEB to evolve prospectively separate tariff upto 95-96. There is also provision for
revision of rates whenever there is any enhancement in the purchase price of energy from
generating companies and also due to higher cost of generation, etc. As a result of the
tariff policy the R.O.R. of KSEB for the last 3 years has been higher than the statutory
rate of 3%.
After 1/8/88, the Board has revised the tariff on 1/1/1992, 1/6/1993 and
1/10/1994 The revision done in 1992 was a total revision for all categories except
agriculture. In respect of agricultural categories, the Board continued to realise the rates
prevailed in 1985 without change during revisions in 1/1/92, 1/6/93 and 1/10/94. Though
the Board proposed revision of rates for the public lighting system in 1982, this could not
be enforced due to social obligations. The rate proposed for the public lighting system in
1982 was made applicable during the 1992 revision. During the revision on 1/6/1993 an
increase of 3 Ps. per unit in energy charge was made except for agriculture and public
lighting. Till 1993 revision of all the non-domestic consumers were being changed at the
same LT VI rates. From 1/6/1993, the non-domestic consumers were grouped under
three categories, ie., LT VI (a), LT VI (b) and LT VI (c).
During the revision on 1/10/1994, an increase of 7 Ps. per unit on energy charge
has been made for all categories excepting agriculture and public lighting categories.
Restructuring of non-domestic tariff and commercial tariff was also done. The additional
annual revenue anticipated during the above revisions were as follows:
1. Revision effective from 1/1/1992 -  Rs. 126 Crores
2. Revision effective from 1/6/1993 -  Rs. 42 Crores
3. Revision effective from 1/10/1994 -  Rs. 40 Crores



Appendix B
Page 6 of 8
30
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Implementation of the physical components of the project started late.
Mobilisation of the work started late because of various reasons. Paucity of fund was
themain reasons. Sufficient machinery was not made available in time. This resulted, the
procurement process longer than projected. Poor performance of the Civil Contractor for
the construction of Lower Periyar LIE Project was the main reason for the delay in
completing the LPHE Project in time. Delay in getting forest clearance from the
Government of India was the main reason for the delay in starting the transmission line
works. The delay has also resulted in rate revision request by the line contractors.
Forest clearance received from Government of India on 7/90 and 8/92. There was
procedure delay in state Government Department in acquiring land required for the
Substations. Even now the land required for the cantonment 66 KV GIS has not been yet
handed over to KSEB by the State Government. Orders placed for the supply of
Transformers, Towers and power conductors were not accepted by the contractors which
has resulted in revised tenders.
While executing the work it was felt necessary to provide additional feeder bays to
the Substations which has resulted procurement of additional equipment for the
Substations.
Since reactive power compensation was transferred to CIDA assistance, additional
transmission lines Thrissur-Palakkad 220 KV, Kannur-Kasarogde 220 KV and Substations
Palakkad 220 KV and Kasargode 220 KV were included in the project in order to stabilise
the power supply position in North Kerala. This has resulted procurement of additional
equipment and materials. Even now procurement of conductors and Towers required for
this lines has not yet been completed due to contract failure.
For implementing Institutional Development Progress studies were successfully
carried out by appointing consultants for commercial accounting. Data Processing 0 & M
study, and Tariff Study.
Consultant appointed during 12/88 for the study of Distribution works - French
Company have submitted the report on 6/90 only. This resulted in delay in starting the
Distribution works.
In addition to all this there was delay in obtaining timely clearance of evaluation
reports and award recommendations by the Central Electricity Authority.
Wide variation in exchange rate while executing the project resulted in price
escalation and request from contractors for rate revision. This has resulted slow progress
of work by the contractors.



Appendix B
Page 7 of 8
3 1
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Under the above circumstances the project completion period was extended and
the World Bank has extended the closing date only upto 12/94. It was expected that Bank
will extend the closing period further for at least 1 year ie. upto 12/95 for enabling KSEB
to partially complete the Lower Periyar H.E. Project. But since the Bank has closed the
loan period at this advanced stage it will adversely affect the project implementation.
Land Acquisition and Forest Clearance
There was been procedure delay in acquiring land required for the station due to
delay in Government Department and paucity of fund to acquire the land. Since land
value was not included in the loan amount, the amount required for acquiring land had to
be found out from other sources. Even today the land required for the construction of
Cantonment 66 KV GIS has not been handed over to KSEB by the State Government.
For such a time bound project there must be more initiation and support from the part of
State Government for accelerating the process.
In the case of forest clearance for transmission lines there was delay in Central
Government for issuing forest clearance for the lines. Even after receiving the forest
clearance, there was delay in the Forest Department for clearing in trees along the route.
From all these it can be seen that this type of time bound project can be completed in time
only if the Central and State Government jointly take up the work with special
consideration with the State Electricity Boards.
Results
Even though the primary objective to increase the installed capacity of the project
was not fully achieved, the power supply position in North Kerala improved by successful
completion of the 400 KV Thrissure Substation, the 1 st 400 KV Substation in Kerala. By
commissioning the Thrissure 400 KV Substation, Kerala is now in a position to receive the
Central share of power.
KSEB tariff revised 3 times which has resulted improvement in the financial status.
The additional annual revenue anticipated during the revisions were as follows:
Revision effective from  I .1.1992    -     Rs. 126 Crores
-do-               1.6.1993    -      Rs. 42 Crores
-do-               1.10.1994    -     Rs. 40 Crores
Evaluation of the Bank Performance
The project was supervised closely and adequate number of visits under
supervision mission were made by the Bank. The assistance extended by the Bank
contributed substantially in commissioning the 1 st 400 KV Substation which enables



Appendix B
Page 8 of 8
32
KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
KSEB to receive the Central share of powers. For speedy implementation Bank has
suggested direct payment but this was not fully accepted by the State Government. Bank
took a calculated decision to retender the Lower Periyar H.E. Project civil work. This
was fully accepted by KSEB and action taken based on this. Unfortunately, the Bank has
closed the loan period in the middle of the project work which has adversely affected the
project work.
Evaluation of Borrowers Own Performance
It was expected that on completing the Lower Periyar HE Project and connected
transmission and Distribution works the power supply position in Kerala can be improved.
But since the loan period was closed at the middle of the project work it adversely
affected the project work. Initially there was some delay in starting the work. Initially
there was some delay in starting the work. Paucity of fund was a main reason. Due to
Banks recommendations and threat of cancellation, KSEB's tariff had been adjusted thrice
to comply with the loan covenents. Hence at the time the loan was closed, KSEB's
financial position was much better, and the progress of works were in an advanced stage.
Even though earnest efforts were made by KSEB in adhering to the Work Bank schedule,
World Bank has closed the loan period in the middle of the project work.
CH~E        
WoI- B    - 












IMAG I NG
Report No:       15546
Type: ICR



