CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 755 PAK
Project Agreement
(Hazara Forestry Pre-Investment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
Dated January 19, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 755 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE, acting by its Governor (herein-
after called NWFP).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($1,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NWFP
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS NWFP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part A of the Project
Section 2.01. NWFP shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, NWFP shall
establish or cause to be established, a revolving fund (herein-
after referred to as the Project Revolving Fund) to be adminis-
tered by the Project Director of the Hazara Forestry Project
Development Committee. The Project Revolving Fund is to be used
exclusively to make payments for the cost of goods and services
required on the part of NWFP to carry out the Project. NWFP shall
deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project Revolving Fund
amounts as shall be, from time to time, required on the part of
NWFP to permit the payments heretofore specified to be made,
promptly as needed, out of the Project Revolving Fund.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, NWFP shall make or cause to be
made an initial deposit in the Project Revolving Fund in an amount
of two hundred thousand Rupees (Rs200,000) and thereafter shall on
a monthly basis make or cause to be made such deposits in the
Project Revolving Fund as are required so that on the first
day of each calendar month there shall be available in such
Fund amounts sufficient to meet payments for the cost of the
Project required on the part of NWFP during the forthcoming two
months as estimated on the basis of the work schedules relating
thereto.
Section 2.03. NWFP shall take, or cause to be taken, all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire, in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Association, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-,
tion and operation of the facilities included in Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.04. NWFP shall establish and maintain with member-
ship, staff and resources satisfactory to the Association,
on or before March 31, 1978 or such other date as the Association
and NWFP shall further agree, a Guzara Forest Owners Task Force
responsible for implementing Part A (4) of the Project.
Section 2.05. NWFP shall ensure that appointments of staff
required for implementation of the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to
the Association.
For that purpose, NWFP shall:


﻿- 3 -
(a) take all necessary measures to ensure that the required
staff positions are authorized;
(b) reLain, to the extent possible, staff in designated
positions during implementation of the Project; and
(c) consult with the Association before any new appointment
is made to the position of Project Director (and the Assistant
Project Director in the event the Project Director is not employed
full-time).
Section 2.06. (a) NWFP undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NWFP
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) NWFP shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) NWFP: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services fi-anced out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the


﻿Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. (a) NWFP shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) NWFP shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by NWFP of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. NWFP shall implement studies and other activ-
ities under Part A (5) of the Project each estimated to cost
the equivalent of $5,000 or more, only after obtaining prior
approval of the Association.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. NWFP shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part A of the Project
by its agencies responsible for carrying out Part A of the
Project.
Section 3.02. NWFP shall cause its agencies responsible
for carrying out Part A of the Project, in respect of activities
related to Part A of the Project to: (i) have their accounts
and financial statements (statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information


﻿- 5 -
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the agencies
referred to hereinabove and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of NWFP thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
NWFP of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NWFP:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Peshawar
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be taken or executed by its
Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department
or such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. NWFP shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of NWFP,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by NWFP pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-7-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
By Is/ Nisar Ali Shah
Authorized Representative


