Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10745
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIRST HIGHWAY SECTOk PROJECT
(LOAN 1684-KE)
JUNE 22, 1992
~~  ~~~ol"
hot+.z°rj~~~~~~~~~1 ClLr  PtbOoS 
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: Kenya Shilling (KSh)
Year                        Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average             US$1 = KSh 7.50
Intervening Years Average          US$1 = KSh 12.30
Completion Year Average            US$1 = KSh 16.50
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB          African Development Bank
MOW           Ministry of Works
MOTC          Ministry of Transport and Communications
PCR           Project Completion Report
RARP          Rural Access Roads Project
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31            (For years through 1985)
July 1 - June 30                   (For 1986 and thereafter)



THE WORLD) BANK               FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirectorwCeneral
Opeftatons Evaluation
June 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Kenya First Highway Sector Project
(Loan 1684-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya First Highway Sector Project (Loan 1684-KE)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
2
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIRST HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(T!AN 1684-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .....................................................i
Evaluation  Summary  .......................                                .............................                     ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . ..............................................1
Backgrvund ...............................................2
Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives  .....................................                            .........                   2
Project Description  ..............................................                                              2
Project Design and Organization                                                                                  3
Project Implementation
Loan  Effectiveness and  Project Startup  ..................                            ...............          3
Implementation  Schedule  ................................................3
Procurement ...............................................                                                      4
Project Costs ..........................                          .....................                          4
Disbursements ...............................................                                                    4
Loan  Allocation  .................................                           ..............                     4
Project Performance and Results
General Project Performance  ............................................4
Physical Results .....................................                            ..........                     4
Institutional Performance  and  Development ................                                 ..............      7
Financial Evaluation  ..............................................                                             8
Economic  Evaluation  ...............................................8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project sustainability ...........................................                            8
Bank Performance ...........         ..                                                       9
Borrower Performance ............... ......                                                   10
Project Relationship ..............................................                           10
Project Documentation and Data .......................................                        10
Lessons  .......... 0....    0....**...                                                       11
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part II has not been prepared for this PCR
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ..................               ...............            12
Project Timetable .............................................                               14
Loan Disbursements .............................................                              15
Project Funding .............................................                                 16
Status of Loan Covenants ..........................................                           17
Bank Missions ..................................              ...........                     19
Project Implementation  ............................................                         20
Map IBRD 13992



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIRST HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1684-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion report (PCR) for Ewe Kenya First Highway Sector Project,
for which Loan 1684 KE in the amount of US$ 90 million was approved on April 10, 1979. The
loan was closed on June 30, 1987, approximate!y two years later than originally scheduled. The
loan was fully disbursed except for a minor amount (UJS$ 175,000), with the last disbursement
on December 5, 1986.
This PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Eastern Africa
Department of the Africa Regional Office. It was prepared about thirteen years after the effective
date of the loan and almost five years after the closing date. Because of the time which has
elapsed, the Borrower has not been requested to prepare Part II of the PCR. In addition, the
information available in the files and other sources was sufficient for only the partial completion
of Part I-R.
Preparation of this PCR is based on data from the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan
Agreement, Supervision Mission reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
and internal Bank files and memoranda.



i.i
PPOJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIRST HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1684-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Introduction
1.    The Kenya classified highway system consists of approximately 51,000 kilometers of
paved, gravel and earth roads. At the time of project appraisal, the system was generally in poor
condition, primarily attributable to inadequate maintenance and vehicle overloading. (Paras. 2.02-
2.05)
B.    Obiectives
2.    The project was designed to support the implementation of the middle three years of the
Borrower's 5-y;-.ar Highway Sector Development Plan, with the following objectives:
X  preserve the investment in the existing paved roads;
*  selectively upgrade the existing road network;
*  establish equitable levels of road access throughout the country;
X  maintain the existing classified road network at acceptable standards;
*  strengthen the Ministry of Works, and
*  improve traffic law enforcement and road safety.
T'hese objectives were responsive to the most pressing needs of the road system at the time.
(Para. 3.01) In addition, it was hoped that the Bank project would contribute to the ability of the
Government to prepare and implement its own plans for road development and maintenance.
This project was conceived as the graduation of Kenya, after successful completion of five
investment projects, into a first sector investment loan.
C.    Project Implementation and Results
3.    In most respects the project fell considerably short of the targets set in the Staff Appraisal
Report and the Loan Agreement. The main problem throughout the implementation period was
the failure of the Borrower to provide the local funding necessary to the successful
implementation of the project. This was particularly a problem in the case of the project
component dealing with the resealing of existing paved roads. This was an important part of the
project, with the objective of protecting the investment in the existing paved roads. Without this
preventive maintenance, the paved roads could be expected to deteriorate rapidly and
rehabilitation and maintenance needs would become reconstruction needs at much higher costs.
(Paras. 6.07-6.09)
4.     The resealing target for the Highway Sector Development Plan as a whole over the 3-year
period was for just undei 4,000 kilometers, with the Bank project to account for 2,600



iii.
kilometers. However, only 594 kilometers were completed under the Bank project, with a further
1306 kilometers completed by the Ministry using other funds; in total less than half of the Plan
target. (Paras. 6.06-6.09)
5.     The project also included a c.mponert for the strengthening and reconstruction of 1,900
kilometers of existing paved roads. Less than 400 kilometers were completed, and there were
considerable cost overruns, ranging from 22 to 91 percent of the original estimates. (Para. 6.02)
6.     The Staff Appraisal Report estimated that the rates of return on some of the individual
subprojects in the Bank project would range from 12 percent to 100 percent, but did not show
any details of the economic evaluations. The project files do not contain the data necessary for
an economic re-evaluation based on the actual performance, but considering the poor performance
in the implementation of the project, it is probable that the actual returns for the project as a
whole were considerably below expectations. (Paras. 4.03-4.04)
7.     The Bank sent 16 missions to Kenya at roughly six-month intervals over the
implementation period of the project. However, the mission trips were often combined with trips
to other countries and/or with missions for other projects in Kenya. As a result, the average
mission time on this project was about 1.3 person weeks, which seems fairly short considering
the size of the project, its geographical extent and the problems encountered. (Para. 8.03)
D.    Conclusions and Lessons
8.     The project cannot be considered successful in terms of achieving the objectives. The
overriding cause of the problems was the failure of the Borrower to provide adequate local
funding. The Bank brought this to the attention of the Borrower on a number of occasions but
the problem continued. It could be argued that the Bank should have been firmer on this point
considering its critical effect on both the condition of the roads and the success of the project.
9.     This was the Bank's first highway sector loan ,n Kenya and perhaps too rr.ich was
expected or the favorable context within which the project had been conceived may have
deteriorated during project implementation. The Project exhibited a number of common problem
areas: short and intensive Bank missions, lack of adequate government funding, lack of the
necessary technical and administrative capability on the part of the Borrower, the application by
the Borrower of primarily political rather than economic criteria in project selection, inadequate
attention to optimum road standards, and questionable Government commitment to some of the
cbJectives of the project. It is possible that the complexity of this first sector project, and the
problems involved, were underestimated at the time of project preparation.
10.    The relatively short missions and the continuing problems on the project suggest that
more intensive supervision on such a large and complex proJeci would have been beneficial.
Whether by Bank staff or a consultant, the cost is usually insignificant in comparison with the
total cost of the project and the savings to be obtained.
11.    The application by the Government of political criteria in project selection is a legitimate
procedure within reasonable limits and among projects with an equally high ERR, but appears
to have resulted in a poor selection of subprojects in some cases. (Para. 9.02) The weakening
of the requirement for the application of economic priorities in project selection and its
replacement by the acceptance of a minimum return of 12 percent during the loan negotiation
process probably made it more difficult for the Bank to take a stronger stand on this point. (Para.
4.04) This issue, and that of the optimum road standards (Para. 8.05), point out the necessity



iv
of a sector-wide planning process which establishes rational priorities and which can be an
important tool in influencing Government in the selection of projects and in attaining an effective
balance between road capital and maintenance expenditures.
12.   The main problem stemmed from the lack of adequate local funding. The Bank had no
direct control over this. The main lessons in this respect would be the need for more intensive
supervision of the project; more realistic, less optimistic evaluations of such problems and their
effects by the supervision missions; a need for realistic reporting of the problems in mission
aides-memoire and supervision reports; a more critical or questioning review of mission reports
at the more senior levels of the Bank, and the taking of a firm stand with the Borrower when
appropriate not only at sector level, but as part of the Bank's macro-economic dialogue. (Para.
12.01)
13.   The executing agency in the Government appeared to have a good commitment to the
project but the commitment appeared to be less strong at the higher levels of Government,
especially in respect of road maintenance (as oppos;ed to development) and the application of
economic criteria in project selection. The lesson is that rare must be taken not only at the time
of preparation and appraisal of projects (as was the case here), that there is full appreciation of,
and commitment to such major loans and their conditions by the higher levels of Government;
but also that the necessary processes are built into the project to ensure sustainability of the
original commitment during implementation. Failing these, the Bank should demonstrate greater
firmness in enforcing the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. (Para. 12.02)
14.   Although the project was not successful in meeting its targets, it was perhaps necessary
to go through this process in a first sector loan, on the way to a better performance. It is
possible that the Bank and the Borrower did not benefit from experience as much as they could
have, as suggested by the occurrence of some of the same problems on the Second Highway
Sector Project as recently as March 1992. A Supervision Mission on that project noted that
maintenance expenditures were still only about half of what would be required to maintain the
road system  in reasonable condition. (Para 4.02)  However, there were indications of
improvement as the Second Sector Loan progressed. The preparation of the PCR for the Second
Highway Sector Project should shed more light on the degree of improvement and the extent to
which the Bank and the Government benefitted from the experience.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIRST HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAid 1684-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REV'EW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name               First Highway Sector Project
Loan No.           1684-KE
RVP Unit           East Africa Region, Infrastructure
Operations Division
Country            Kenya
Sector             Transportation
Subsector          Highways
2.  Background
2.01     The land transportation system of Kenya is centered on the major road and railway
links in the 1,000-kilometer corridor between Mombasa and the Ugandan border via Nairobi.
This area is the most densely-populated in Kenya, with over half of the country's population, and
is also the location of much of the country's agricultural, commercial and industrial activity. The
corridor is also a major transportation route for freight to and from Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi
and parts of eastern Zaire. The transportation system in the remainder of the country is
considerably less developed, consistin, of some paved roads but primarily gravel and earth roads
of relatively low standard.
2.02     The classified road system at the time of project appraisal was estimated to consist o0
approximately 4,300 kilometers of bitumen-surfaced roads, 15,900 kilometers of gravel and
30,400 kilometers of earth roads, for a total of 50,600 kilometers. The railway system consisted
of a .otal of 2,100 kilometers, with 1,100 kilometers in the main corridor aind 1,000 kilometers
of branch lines.
2.03     The roads were generally in poor condition at the time of project appraisal, with an
estimated 1,540 kilometers of the paved network in poor or critical condition and of inadequate
standards for the existing traffic volumes and axle loads. The earth and gravel roads had not
been adequately maintained and it was estinf.';ed that only about 9 percent of the earth and gravel
roads classified as primary and secondary roads were all-weather roads, with the remaining 91
percent being restricted or impassable during part of the year. For a number of years, road
upgrading, and periodic and routine maintenance, had been at levels well below those required
to protect the investment in the road system and provide adequate service to the traffic. There
was estimated to be a backlog of over 1,000 kilometers in resealing of paved roads and 3,000
kilometers in the regravelling of existing gravel roads.
2.04     The roads were also subject to significant overloading, with the legal maximum single
axle load of 8 tons being largely disregarded. Enforcement of vehicle safety standards and traffic
laws, especially in the case of commercial vehicles, had also been inadequate, resulting in an
increasing accident rate.



-2-
2.05     The major causes of the poor road conditions were identified as inadequate
maintenance budgets, a shortage of senior supervisory staff (especially in the Maintenance
Branch), road design standards below those required for the traffic levels, an inadequate
equipment fleet with declining serviceability (a 55 percent availability rate in 1978), and an
inade,quate management information system for the provision of data on maiii.enance costs and
performance.
2.06     The project was identifled for possible Bank financing in Febrlary 1975, when
discussions were held with the Government of Kenya with t 'a objective of undertaking a highway
sector project in fiscal year 1978. This sector project would have been a departure from the
previous Bank practice of funding individual road projects. The first Preappraisal Mission was
carried out in July 1976, and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was completed -n March 1979.
3.  Proiect Objectives and Description
3.01     Project Obiectives. As part of the Fourth National Development Plan, the Government
had prepared a Highway Sector Development Plan which covered fiscal years 1979 to 1983 and
included capital and recurrent expenditures for road construction and maintenance. The purpose
of the Bank project was to support implementation of the middle three years (1980-82) of the 5-
year Highway Sector Development Plan. The objectives of the Highway Sector Development
Plan were as follows:
-  preserve the investment in the existing paved roads;
3  selectively upgrade the existing road network;
-  establish equitable levels of road access throughout country, with emphasis on rural areas;
e  maintain the existing classified road network at acceptable standards;
*  strengthen the Ministry of Works, and
*  improve traffic law enforcement and road safety.
These objectives were responsive to the most pressing needs of the road system as shown in the
Introduction. In addition, it was hoped that this project would contribute to the ability of the
Government to prepare and implement its own plans for road development and maintenance.
3.02     Project Description. The project, with proposed funding of US$ 90 million, was
designed to fund new commitments undertaken during these years plus ongoing projects already
committed for implementation during tht period.  The project included the following
components:
Km.
*  strengthening of existing paved .^ ads                     500
*  reconstruction & upgrading of tiunk & primary roads      1,400
*  upgrading of secondary and minor roads                   3,600
*  construction of rural access roads                       5,800
*  resealing of paved roads                                 2,600
*  regravelling of gravel roads                             4,20(G
*  support for routine road maintenance (avg. km./yr)       52,000
*  provision of maintenance wo:kshops, stores, tools, equipment,
vehicles and spare parts
*  support for traffic law enforcement and the road safety program
*  technical assistance in road maintenance and preparation of studies.



-3 -
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.01     The project was designed to support the Highway Sector Development Plan, which
addressed the most pressing needs in the highway sysLem. In the preparatory work and in the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Bank stressed the need for completion of a national transport study
prior to project execution, which would tend to make the project appropriate to the transport
system as a whole as well as to just the highway system. The project desigii seemed appropriate
in its concept.
4.02     Experience on previous Bank loans had showed a need to "...pay particular attention
to road maintenance...". The first Preappraisal Mission was carried out in July 1976, at which
time the Bank expressed concern regarding a recent reduction in the Government's highway
maintenance budget. This was to remain a problem throughout the project, in spite of the Bank's
efforts to encourage a moro adequate level of maintenance expenditures. As recently as March
1992, a Supervision Mission on the Second Highway Sector Project noted that maintenance
expenditures were still only about half of what would be required to maintain the road system in
reasonable condition.
4.03     The Batik required detailed economic justifications for the individual subprojects. The
SAR indicates that the economic evaluation of the individual projects in the program was carried
out (or was being carried out) by the Government, with rates of return ranging from 12 percent
to 100 percent. No details of the economic analyses are shown in the SAR or in the project
files, but the correspondence indicates that the Bank staff continued to pursue the requirement for
acceptable economic evaluations over the life of the project.
4.04     During the negotiations, the Bank initially advocated a selection of road subprojecL
based on the "...highest economic priority." However, the Government was of the opinion that
this would not permit application of other, non-economic criteria, such as the need for an
equitable regional distribution of the projects. As a result, the word "economic" was deleted, and
the requirement then was that an economic rate of return of not less than 12 percent would be
required for Bank financing.
4.05     In summary, the project design was appropriate to the needs and the main potential
problem areas were identified during the project preparation. In retrospect, considering the extent
and complexity of the project, it might have been somewhat over-ambitious for a first sector loan,
and some of  -e problems identified at the appraisal stage remained serious obstacles to the
successful completion of the project.
5.   Project Implementation
5.01     Loan Effectiveness and Project Startup. The time lapse between project identification
and the first Preappraisal Mission was more than two years, and the time between the first
Preappraisal Mission and the Appraisal Mission was almost one year, but these delays were
anticipated by the Bank at both the identification and preappraisal stages. The main causes were
the need fc: the completion of a Road Transport Study by the Government assisted by a
bilatmrally-funded team; the need for the Government to prepare a highway development plan
based on the study, and the complexity of the proposed project.
5.02     Implementation Schedule. The original implementation schedule anticipated project
completion by the end of 1984, but the project fell behind schedule from the outset. The project



-4-
was not closed until mid-1987, and the original targets still had not been attained. The main
problem was the failure of the Borrower to provide the necessary local funding. This potential
problem was apparent to the Bank prior to project implementation and was the subject of
numerous observations by the Bank during the implenicntation period, but the problem was not
resolved during the term of the project.
5.C3     Procurement. The procurement procedures were monitored by the Bank to ensure that
they conforrred to the applicable regulations. Procurement was also enhanced in that the
Government was assisted by the Crown Agents throughout the project. However, procurement
was generallv behii. I schedule for the same reasons that the project as a whole was delayed, and
there was some indication that the Government procurement agency did not pay sufficient
attention to the specifications determined by the operating agency.
5.04     Project Costs. The total project funding provided by the Bank remained as originally
planned but the achievements were considerably less than expected. As a result, some of the
projeLt work was incorpor2ted into the Second Highway Sector Project. Thus, the project was
technically within budget, but was not substantively within budget.
5.05     Disbursem,.nts. Disbursements remained considerably behind schedule throughout
implementation. Project implementation itselbwas behind schedule throughout the project period,
which delayed expenditures. In addition, the submission of applications by the Government was
well behind the expenditures, attributed to slow admainistrative procedures. The Government
appointed a Project Coordinator to improve the administrative situation. The files also indicate
that there were administrative problems in the Bank's payment procedures. It appears that there
was a backlog of unpaid applications in the Bank at one point, with 11 applications being paid
in a three-day period following enquiries by the Borrower.
5.06     Loan Allocations. The original allocations by project component and by year are
shown in Table 4. The actual allocations by component cannnt be determined from the project
files.
6.   Proiect Performance and Results
General Project Performance
6.01     The Bank project was part of the larger Highway Sector Development Plan, and in
some cases it is not possible to identify the specific accomplishments of the project as distinct
fiom those of the Plan as a whole. In addition, some of the components of the project were
continued under the overlappipg Second Highway Sector Project. However, it is clear that the
actual performance was considerably below expectations in most cases. An important factor in
the poor performance was the failure of the Government to provide the necessary and agreed
local funding required under the project. Reference to this problem recurs in the files throughout
the 7-year period of project implementation.
Physical Results
Performance and results in the individual components of the project are described in the following
sections.



-5 -
(a)   Strengthening and reconstruction of existing paved roads
6.02     These two components of the project accounted for 72 percent of the planned budget,
with the objective of strengthening and/or reconstructing 1,900 kilometers of paved roads in the
1980-82 period. At the time of the last Impleme:.:ation Summary prepared in June 1986,
contracts had been let for six subprojects with a total length of only 345 kilometers. Five of the
subprojects had been completed by that time and the sixth was in progress. Because of delays
in the implementation of the subprojects and the rapid deterioration of the roads, subprojects
planned as rehabilitation projects became full reconstruction projects, greatly increasing the costs,
with overruns ranging from 22 percent to 91 percent of the original estimates. The overruns
were attributed primarily to inadequate detailed investigation in the initial engineering studies,
the time lapses between the engineering studies and construction, lack of maintenance on the
roads in the intervening period, and the original underestimation of future price increases.
Pavement failures were already occurring in mid-1986 on sections completed in mid-1983,
attributed to poor-quality materials, poor workmanship and inadequate design.
(b)   Upgrading of secondary and minor roads
6.03     This component accounted for 5 percent of the planned budget. The project files do
not appear to indicate any significant activity in this component.
(c)   Rural Access Road Program (RARP)
6.04     This component accounted for only about 3 percent of the planned project budget,
provided primarily as a bridge between other funding arrangements for the RARP. According
to the Supervision Report of April 1984, the total Rural Roads Program had attained about 80
percent of the targetv.ed kilometers. This component of the Bank project, in support of the
RARP, was relativel y successful.
(d)   Road maintenance program
6.05     This component of the project, accounting for 11 percent of the planned budget, had
three major parts: the resealing of paved roads, the regravelling of existing gravel roads, and
support for the Government's routine maintenance program, including the provision of
maintenance workshops and equipment.
(i)   Resealing of paved roads
6.06     The target for the Highway Sector Development Plan as a whole over this three-year
period was for just under 4,000 kilometers, with the Bank part consisting of 2,600 kilometers.
6.07     The Bank expressed concern regarding this component of the project as early as July
1979, only about one month after the effective date of the loan.  It became clear that
implementation would be delayed because of a shortage of domestic funding attributable to a
severe balance of payments problem, which caused the Government to reduce the 1980
Development Plan and curtail the highway program agreed in the negotiations. The resealing
program was also delayed because of shortages of diesel fuel and domestically-produced bitumen.



-6 -
6.08     The Bank recommended to Government that the resealing program should have a high
priority and be carried out as originally agreed. However, the Supervision Report of October
1980 noted that resealing was still very much behind schedule, with a backlog of about 1800
kilometers, and that the paved roads were deteriorating rapidly. By the end of Fiscal Year 1982,
only 1,100 kilometers had been resealed, compared with the target of 4,000 kilometers by that
time, and only 231 kilometers were done in the following year. The Bank agreed to contracting
out resealing to supplement the work done by force account, and to the use of the loan funds to
import bitumen. It was agreed that about 600 kilometers of resealing would be done by contract,
but the tendering for this work was still under discussion at the time of the Supervision Report
of May 1983.
6.09     The end result was that six resealing contracts covering 594 kilometers out of the
planned 2,600 kilometers were completed under the Bank project. The Ministry of Transport
completed another 1,306 kilometers using other funds, bringing the total to 1,900 kilometers.
Thus, for the 3-year project period, the total plan was for 3,995 kilometers, with 2,600
kilometers of this to be done under the Bank project. Actually done were 1,900 and 594
kilometers, respectively, over a period of eight years. There was thus a large backlog in
resealing at the end of the project, resulting in continued deterioration of the roads and the need
in the future for more costly reconstruction in cases where rehabilitation would otherwise have
been sufficient.
6.10     The Bank had continuously commented on the need for the Government to provide the
necessary local funding for the resealing component of the project; had recommended reallocation
of funds from the development budget for use in the resealing program, and had agreed with the
use of loan funds for the unplanned import of bitumen and contracting of some of the resealing
work. In spite of this constructive approach, the Government apparently did not give the
resealing a high priority and failed to provide the agreed and necessary funds.  The
Implementation Summary of October 1986 indicates that, for the Plan as a whole, there was still
a backlog of 2,640 kilometers of resealing work at that time.
(ii)   Regravelling of existing gravel roads
6.11     The objective of the Bank project was to regravel 4,200 kilometers of existing gravel
roads. There were also problems with this component of the project, including the use by the
Government of part of the funds for the initial gravelling of earth roads rather than the
maintenance regravelling of existing gravel roads. This diversion of funds accounted for about
45 percent of the work as of May 1981. However, the situation improved and the Bank Mission
of April 1985 reported that 100 percent of the regravelling had been completed.
(iii)    Support of routine maintenance
6.12     This component of the project was for the support of routine maintenance on the more
than 50,000 kilometers of the classified road system. It is difficult to judge from the files the
degree to which this component of the project succeeded. As noted in the report of the
Supervision Mission of June 1986, given the nature of the Borrower's record-keeping at the time,
it was difficult to judge the level of achievement in road maintenance. However, it is clear that
the road maintenance achievements were at a relatively low level, attributable to lack of adequate
domestic funding for materials and supplies, the low serviceability rates of road maintenance
vehicles, lack of proper supervision, the absence of a well-defined work program, and lack of
proper accounting and costing procedures.



6.13     The situation does not appear to have improved significantly during the project period
and in fact the problems appear to have continued into Second Highway Sector Loan. A
memorandum in November 1986 notes that the percentage of the highway budget allocated for
periodic maintenance declined from 13 percent of the 1982/83 budget to 5 percent in 1986/87.
Some improvements were to be expected later when additional equipment had been obtained,
workshops were available and when the highway maintenance management and equipment cost
accounting system planned under the Second Highway Project was implemented.
6.14     Twenty District workshops were to bt blwt! ant; equipped under the project. This was
also an important component as maintenance equipment availability was low, resulting in low
maintenance productivity. As early as July 1980, just over one year from the effective date,
Kenya informed the Bank that they would be unable to provide any funds for workshops in the
1980/81 fiscal year, so that the whole workshop construction component would be deferred by
one year. Again in November 1982 Kenya advised the Bank that they still would be unable to
start construction of any of the workshops, with the problem again being entirely attributable to
lack of local matching funds. In view of this continuing problem, Kenya proposed the purchase
of 20 transportable workshops and stores for the most urgent locations. It was eventually agreed
that 23 mobile workshops would be purchased, but orders were not placed until March 1986.
It was later decided to provide funding for the District workshops in the Second Highway Sector
Project.
(e)   Other project components
(i)   Axle load control
6.15     The Mission of April 1986 indicates that statutes increasing the axle load limits were
introduced in December 1983. Three permanent weigh bridges had been installed and 5 mobile
scales were purchased and received during the term of the contract. The Covenant requiring that
the Borrower take all reasonable action to enforce the axle load limits was complied with only
during the term of the Second Highway Sector Project.
(ii) Technical assistance
6.16     The Government received technical assistance in the purchasing of equipment and
stores and a study of road user charges and axle load limits. Technical assistance was alsc.
arranged for a road maintenance fleet inventory and funding scheme and to establish a cost
accounting system for road maintenance.
Institutional Performance and Development
6.17     The strengthening of the Ministry of Works was among the objectives of the project,
and it was hoped that the project would contribute to the ability of the Ministry to carry out their
highway planning and maintenance. Although much of the technical assistance and training in
the highway sector was funded by other donors, and was not a major component in the funding
of this project, the Bank played a positive and constructive role. The Bank required and
encouraged the continuation of the ongoing institution-building in the Ministry of Works and was
also instrumental in the formation by the Government of an Inter-Ministerial Committee on road-
rail coordination. In retrospect, however, a larger institution-building component might have
been appropriate in view of the extent and complexity of the project.



-8 -
Financial Evaluation
6.18     The project was directed primarily toward the rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing infrastructure and had no significant revenue implications. The total project funding
provided by the Bank loan remained as initially planned, but the achievements were considerably
less than expected. As a result, some of the original project work was incorporated into the
second Highway Sector Project. A major factor in the relatively low productivity of the project
was the failure of the Government to provide the local financing necessary to the successful
execution of the project.
Economic Evaluation
6.19     Neither the Staff Appraisal Report nor the project files show the details that would
normally be expected in the economic analysis - road roughness, traffic volumes, vehicle types,
shadow prices and unit costs of fuel, maintenance, crew, tires, etc., and similar information - so
it is not possible to judge the economic evaluation nor to carry out an economic re-evaluation.
However, the SAR notes that the Bank's Highway Development and Maintenance (HDM) model
was used, and the files refer to benefit-cost studies of individual road sections carried out by the
Government. The content of the files indicates that the Bank assisted the Government in the
studies by reviewing the terms of reference and the results, and the degree of detail shown in the
applicable correspondence indicates that the Bank attempted to ensure that the economic
evaluations were to acceptable standards.
6.20     The impact of the economic evaluations appears to have been weakened by the deletion
from the Loan Agreement of the requirement that the selected subprojects be of the highest
economic priority, and requiring instead only that they meet a 12 percent return criterion (see
Para. 4.04). Considering that some of the subprojects had rates of return of up to 100 percent,
it seems probable that this could have the effect of weakening the economic basis of the loan and
reducing the overall rate of return on the project by accepting subprojects with considerably lower
ex-ante returns than other candidate subprojects, especially once it became apparent that actual
construction costs would be much higher than original estimates. It might also have reduced the
Bank's leverage in influencing the Plan. The Supervision Report of June 1980 notes that the
Government introduced new projects into the overall Plan in spite of very low economic
justification. When the Bank objected, the Roads Department stated that the projects were
included only because of very strong political pressure from the highest levels.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.01     The main factors in the sustainability of the benefits of the project will be the
commitment of the Government to the principle of adequate maintenance of the roads and the
provision of funds and qualified, motivated staff. These were not strongly in evidence at the end
of the project, and the major problems continued into the beginning of the Second Highway
Sector Project. However, there are indications that the situation is improving during the course
of the second project and subsequenx '?ublic Expenditure Reviews are likely to provide a forum
for increasing funding for road maintenance.



-9 -
8.   Bnk Performane
8.01     The mission instructionr. to Bank staff were generally fairly comprehensive, identifying
the main issues to be addressed. The Staff responses were also good in that the important issues
were in fact addressed. In general, it appears that the Bank recognized the major problems at
early stage and followed up on them, but many of the problems required Government action, such
as the provision of adequate local funding, and were beyond the direct control of the Bank.
8.02     On some occasions, the mission reports appear to have understated the seriousness of
the problems. A Supervisory Mission report of May 1981 shows ratings of 2 (moderate
problems) as the worst of the ratings, yet lack of local finances and the delays in the resealing
component were serious problems, jeopardizing the effectiveness of a major part of the project
by allowing existing paved roads to deteriorate quickly. It showed a management performance
rating of 1 (problem-free or minor problems), which seems unduly optimistic. Similar ratings
continued into 1985, although the problems still existed. In general, while the problems are
emphasized in the text of the reports, there seems to have been a tendency to avoid the lower
ratings in the Performance Rating sections of the Supervision Summary forms.
8.03     The Bank sent 16 missions to Kenya at roughly 6-month intervals during the
implementation period of the project, with an average of about 1.3 person weeks per mission.
This was probably less attention than the project merited considering the size of the project, its
geographical extent, the problems encountered and the fact that this was the first sector loan.
There is often a tendency for intensive project activity and attention during a Bank mission, then
reduction in the level of activity shortly thereafter. This argues for more intensive, possibly full-
time supervision on larger projects. Whether by Bank staff or a consultant, the cost is usually
insignificant in comparison with the total cost of the project and the savings to be obtained.
8.04     The lack of adequate Government funding is apparent throughout the project. This
problem and others continued into the Second Highway Sector Loan. Although the Bank brought
the problem to the attention of the Borrower on a number of occasions, it could be argued that
the Bank should have considered taking action under the relevant provisions of the Loan
Agreement.
8.05     The Ministry of Works upgraded the standards on some Bank-financed trunk roads
without Bank approval, whereas some Bank-financed roads became unusable "extremely
prematurely" due to inadequate standards. This suggests the possibility that the design standards
on some of the Bank-financed roads were less than optimum, possibly to stay within Bank budget
constraints. The application of optimum road standards at times falls victim to the prior
definition of a project (for example, as a "rehabilitation" or "reconstruction" project, based on
standards which existed at the time of previous construction or upgrading) and to a pre-conceived
budget amount, with the resulting standards not being adequate for the current and forecast traffic
volumes and axle loads. The rehabilitation of roads to lower-than-appropriate standards can
result in the loss of benefits which might otherwise have been obtained, and to delays in
upgrading the roads to appropriate standards. Again, it cannot be stated with certainty that this
occurred on this project, but there is some indication of this possibility in the project files.
8.06     The follow-on project (the Second Highway Sector Project), which became effective
in September 1984, overlapped this project. The main problems continued, especially the
Borrower's failure to provide the agreed local budgets for maintenance and the major delays in
implementation. The project quickly fell behind schedule, partly because of the funding problem
and partly because of inadequate institutional capacity for the preparation of subproject proposals



- 10-
and preparation of procurement documents. This would suggest that the Bank and the Borrower
had not managed to resolve the problem areas before committing to the second project.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01     The Borrower experienced a severe balance of payments problem during the course
of the project and was unable to provide the local funds required for successful implementation.
The Government advised the Bank that the delays were because of their "... inability to meet the
local portion of the loan fuiids due to the shortage of funds during 1981/84 period when this
country experienced acute economic problems." Given the shortage of funds, the Borrower
agreed to add toll revenues to highway maintenance funds to increase the total funds available,
but instead reduced general funding so that the tolls did not constitute a net addition. The Bank
stressed that the resulting budget shortfall would constitute a serious setback for road
maintenance. In early 1985 the Borrower stated that they had made adequate provision for the
local contribution in the 1985/86 estimates, but the problem of inadequate funding for
maintenance continued into the Second Highway Sector Project. This was by far the most ser.ous
problem throughout the First Highway Sector Project.
9.02     The Government introduced new projects into the overall Plan in spite of very low
economic justification. When the Bank objected, the Roads Department stated that the projects
were inicluded only because of very strong political pressure from the highest levels. The
application of non-economic criteria to a reasonable degree is legitimate, but given the shortage
of funds, the Bank's objection and the response of the Roads Department, it appears that the
projects should not have been added in this case.
9.03     The Borrower did not give resealing and other maintenance a high priority and tended
to favor development projects over the road maintenance needs in allocating its budgets. There
appears to have been a relatively low degree of cotmrnitment to the maintenance aspects of the
project.
10.  Project Relationship
10.01   The Bank relationship with the Ministry of Works (later the Ministry of Transport and
Communications) remained good throughout the projea. The relationship with the Ministry of
finance was also good, but less effective in that the Ministry failed to provide the necessary
funding for the project.
11. Proiect Documentation and Data
11.01   The Appraisal Report was relatively detailed and thorough, and identified the main
potential problem areas. It perhaps failed to anticipate the severity of the local funding problem,
but this problem was in part the result of later, more general problems in the Kenyan economy
and could not necessarily have been foreseen at the time. the Loan Agreement was apo -s priate
to the circumstances.
11.02     The Appraisal Report did not show any details of the economic analyses supporting
the project, and the project files also do not provide this information. It is also difficult to
determine from the files the actual achievements, and the actual expenditures of project funds,
for the individual components of the project.



- 11 -
12. Lessons
12.01   The main problem stemmed from the lack of adequate local funding. The Bank had
no direct control over this. The main lessons in this respect would be the need for more intensive
supervision of the project; more realistic, less optimistic evaluations of such problems and their
effects by the supervision missions; a need for realistic reporting of the problems in mission
aides-memoire and supervision reports; a more critical or questioning review of mission reports
at the more senior levels of the Bank, and the taking of a firm stand with the Borrower when
appropriate not only at the sector level but as part of the Bank's macro-economic dialogue.
12.02   The executing agency in the Government appeared to have a good commitment to the
project but the commitment appeared to be less strong at the higher levels of Government,
especially in respect of road maintenance (as opposed to development) and the application of
economic criteria in project selection. The lesson to be drawn is that the executing agency in the
Government appeared to have a good commitment to the project but the commitment appeared
to be less strong at the higher levels of Government, especially in respect of road maintenance
(as opposed to development) and the application of economic criteria in project selection.
Therefore, care must be taken not omuy at the time of preparation and apparaisal of projects (as
was the case here), that there is full appreciation of, and commitment to such major loans and
their conditions by the higher levels of Governments; but also that the necessary processes are
built into the project to ensure sustainability of the original commitment during implementation.
Failing these, the Bank should demonstrate greater firmness in enforcing the terms and conditions
of the loan agreement.



- 12 -
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIRST HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 1684-KE)
PART HI: STATISTICAL MPO                   ON
1.     Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan/credit                   Purpose                 Approval        Status
Credit 70-KE           Trunk road engineering,          1964          Completed
improvement and construction
Credit 77-KE           Tea road improvement             1965          Completed
Loan 428-EA (1) Railway and harbor development          1965          Completed
Credit 104-KE          Sugar road engineering and       1967          Completed
construction
Credit 120-KE          Trunk road construction          1968          Completed
Loan 639-KE            Trunk & feeder road reconstruc-    1969        Completed
tion sugar road construction and
settlement road improvement
Loan 638-EA (1) Mombasa Port works                      1969          Completed
Loan 674-EA (1) Railway rehabilitation and              1970          Completed
improvements, East African Railways
Credit 224-KE          Improvement of organization and    1970        Completed
execution of highway maintenance
Credit 276-KB          Trunk & feeder road reconstruction, 1972       Completed
tea road construction and
settlement road construction
Loan 865-BA (1) Mombasa Port works                      1972          Completed
Loan 826-KE            Airport Master Plan, Nairobi     1972          Completed
International Airport
Loan 932-KE            Trunk and primary road           1973          Completed
improvement, and sugar road
improvement and construction
Loan 1133-KE           Provision of a 452-km oil pipeline   1975      Completed



- 13 -
Loan 1305/             Construction of rural access    1976         Completed
Credit 651-KE          roads, technical assistance and
training
Loan 1976-KE           First Railway Project           1981         Completed
Loan 2409/             Second Highway Sector Project   1984         In progress
Credit SF17-KE
(1) Loan to the three members of the East African Community



- 14 -
2.     Project Timetable
Date                                       Actual
Ieem                  Planned       Revision 1     Revision 2     Date
First Mention in Files    11/06/75 (referring to a Mission in 02/75)
Preappraisal Mission           1C/77                                      11/28/77
Preappraisal Mission           03/78                                     03/13/78
Appraisal Mission              09/78                                     o9/l8/8
Government's Application   -                                             09/11/78
Loan Negotiations            02/19/79                                    02/22/9
Board Approval               04/10/79                                    04/10/79
Loan Agreement Date             -                                        04/30/79
Loan Effectiveness Date  -                                               06/18/79
Project Completion Date      12/31/84       12/31/85       06/30/86      06/30/87
Loan Closing Date            06/30/85       06/30/86       12/31/86      06/30/87



- 15 -
3.     Loan Disbursements
Disbursements (in US S Thousand)
Actual
Bank Fiscal Year     Estimated     Revised       Actual        as % of
and Quarter          Cumulative    Estimate      Cumulative    Estimated
1979/80  1
2            1,500
3           3,300
4           5,400
1980/81  1           9,100                        33         0.4
2           12,900                        66         0.5
3           16,800                        66         0.4
4           20,900                      1,009        4.8
1981/82  1          26,100                      2,200         8.4
2           32,600                      4,103        2.6
3           40,000                      5,340        3.4
4           46,800                      14,000       9.9
1982/83  1          52,300                      15,840       30.3
2           57,600                      22,694       39.4
3           62,700                      28,977       46.2
4           67,600                      36,220       53.6
1983/84  1          72,300                      46,758       64.7
2           76,800                      53,120       69.2
3           81,200                      58,500       72.0
4           85,500                      62,600       73.2
1984/85  1          88,400                      65,000       73.5
2           90,000                      70,000       77.8
3                                       72,900       81.0
4                        82,000         78,051       86.7
1985/86  1                       85,000         79,850       88.7
2                        87,000         81,640       90.7
3                        89,000         82,538       91.7
4                        85,000 (1)     85,000 (2)    94.4
1986/87  1                       87,500         87,000 (2)    96.7
2                        90,000         89,825       99.8
(1) Estimate re-revised at this point
(2) Estimated



- 16 -
4.     Proiect Funding
The planned funding was as follows (000 US dollars):
Project Component                j  1         1981  J  1982  [ Total |%
Streng.hening of existing paved roads                 7900    30700      1800    40400     45
Reconstruction of existing paved roads               24700       -         -     24700     27
Upgrading of existing earth roads                              2600      1800     4400      5
Rural Access Roads Program                              .                2500     2500      3
Road maintenance program                              3200     4400      2600    10200      11
Traffic law enforcement & road safety                  500      500       500     1500      2
Technical assistance & consultant services            4400      1900       -      6300      7
Totals                             40700    40100     9200    90000    100



- 17 -
Compliance With Sector Loan Covenants
The following covenants had not been complied with, either in full or in part, as of July 1986.
Covenant                                              Remarks
Section 3.02 (b): provides that the provisions Borrower   The Implementation Summary states that the approved
shall .... carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project, and   allocation of local funds was reasonably cufficient but that
provide the resources required for such purpose, in accor-  the actual monthly cash flow was not forthcoming on sch-
dance with the said program and plan, as the same may   edule, as a consequence of which the accomplishments
from time to time be revised in consultation with the   have been below the target. This seem an understatement
Bank.                                               of the problem, which in factjeopardized the effectiveness
of the whole project.
Section 3.02 (f): Except as the Borrower and the Bank   The June 30, 198t date for submission of all subproject
may otherwise agree, all subproject proposals shall be   proposals had not been met as of June 1986.
submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1981.
Section 3.03: The Borrower in consultation with the Bank   Progress in improvement of MTD was below expectations
shall develop the Mechanical and Transport Department   due to the delay in the construction of District workshops.
of MOW into a unit capable of effectively carrying out the   To assist in the maintenance and repair of field equipment
maintenance and repair of the mechanical equipment   23 mobile workshops were ordered to reduce the shortfall
required for the maintenance of the Borrower's road   in repair capability until District workshops could be
system in accordance with the provisions of this Agree-   constructed and start operating.  Construction of the
ment, and shall provide the funds, facilities, services and   District workshops had not been accomplished by the end
the resources required for the purpose.             of the project, and was later included in the Second
Highway Sector Project.
Se_tion 3.06 (c): Promptly after completion of the Project,   The files include a letter to the Government in 1986,
but in any event not later than six months after the   emphasizing the importance of the Project Completion
Closing Date .... the Borrower shall prepare and furnish    Report, but the project files indicate that the Borrower did
to the Bank a report ... on the execution and initial   not meet the requirement for the preparation of the report.
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits ....
Section 4.02: The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be   The Planning Unit of MOW  set up a program for the
maintained rec ords showing the operations, resources, and   collection and recording of data, and implementation was
expenditures of the departments or agencies of the Bor-  in progress during the course of the Project. The cost ac-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project; and sep-   counting system had not been established in the Maintena-
arate accounts for all expenditures of funds requested to   nce Branch during the project.
be withdrawn from the Loan account on the basis of cer-
tificates of expenditures.
Section 4.03: The Borrower shall cause all project   The lmplementation Summary of June 1986 states that this
workshops, road maintenance equipment and related   covenant has generally been met except for construction
facilities to be operated and adequately maintained and all   of new District Workshops. However, the files indicate
necessary repairs and replacements to be made in accor-  that the equipment was not being adequately maintained,
dance with appropriate engineering practices.       and it would seem more correct to state that the covenant
had not been met.



- 18 
Section 4.04: The Borrower shall cause its highway    According to the Implementation Summary, adequate
system, including all roads provided for under this  routine maintenance had not been achieved, mainly due to
Project, to be adequately maintained and shall cause all  the shortfall in providing actual cash flow and annual
necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in   budgetary allocations. Again, this seems to understate the
accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall   problem, given the problems and the large backlog in road
provide or cause to be provided promptly as needed, the   maintenance. This covenant was not met.
funds, facilities, ser- *es, and other resources required for
the foregoing.
Section 4.05: the Borrower shall take all reasonable action   Effective control of axle load limits had not been achieved
to enforce its traffic laws, including axle load limits and   by the closing date of the project, although there were
vehicle inspection requirements, and shall inform the Bank   indications at that time that the situation would be im-
from time to time on the actions taken and proposed to be   proved in the near future. In fact, this covenant was com-
taken in this connection.                            plied with during the Second Highway Sector Project.



- 19 -
6. Missions
Number      Staff                    Perform-
Month/      of        Weeks in    8pecial-       ance Type of
Mission           Year      Persons     Field (1)    ization       Rating       Problems
Throufh Appraisal
Identification     02n5         1          n/i        Ec
Preparation        07/76        1          0.6        Ec
Preappraisal       12/77        1          2.3        Ec
Preappraisal       03/78        2          4.6        Ec, En
Appraisal          09/78        5         13.0        Ec, En, Fi, Ot
Post-Appraisal     04/79        1          0.4        Ec
Totals                                  20.9
SuDervision
Supervision        07/79        1          0.1        En             2            M, F
Supervision        11/79        1          1.0        En             2             F
Discussions        02/80        1          0.3        Ec            n/a           n/a
Supervision        04/80        1          1.4        En             2             F
Supervision        10/80        2          1.4        En             2             F
Supervision        03/81        1          1.0        En             2             F
Supervision        10/81        3          2.0        Ec, En, Ch     2             F
Supervision        03/82        1          0.7        En             2             F
Supervision        10/82        3          3.0        En(2), Ec      2             F
Review             04/83        1          0.5        En            n/a           n/a
Supervision        10/83        1          1.0        En             2             F
Supervision        11/83        1          1.5        En             2             F
Supervision        06/84        1          2.4        En             2            F, T
Supervision        03/85        1          2.6        En             2            M, T
Supervision        09/85        1          1.0        Ec             2            n/i
Supervision        04/86        2         1.4         En(2)          2            n/i
Totals                                  2.3a
Specialization:    EC = Economist; EN = Engineer; Fi = Financial Analyst;
Ch = Chief, EAPHW; Ot = Other
Types of Problems: F = Financial; M = Managerial; T = Technical
n/a: not applicable n/i: not indicated in files
(1) The person weeks are estimates in some cases where the Mission worked on
two or more projects during the visit.



- 20 -
7.     Proiect Implementation
Appraisal
Estimate                  Actual
Strengthening of existing paved roads      1900 km                   345 km
plus reconstruction and upgrading of
trunk and primary roads
Upgrading of secondary and minor roads     3600 km                   Data not available
Construction of rural access roads         5800 km                   Data not available
Resealing of paved roads                   2600 km                   594 km
Regravelling of gravel roads               4200 km                   4200 km
Support for routine road maintenance      Over the 52,000 km.
of the road system
Maintenance workshops                     20 District workshops      No District workshops.
23 mobile units
Traffic law and road safety                Provide weigh scales      Equipment provided
and vehicles
Technical assistance                      Studies of axle loads and  In progress at
road user charges         end of project



UDAN                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KENYA
U) A N      -      <       , 5a^4HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
,                                                                                    S A P J  A
oAER    T T
'l                           j                          0     l
ES ~ ~       l
--4~~~~~ A              E7 



