Document of
The World Bank                  iL   g0p \
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2498-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
March 27, 1979
This document hbas a resticed distbutin and my be nud by recipients only In the performnce of
their oeld dutis. Its cotent may not otherwise be diwcoed witho  Wold Bank as_borkuffon.  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -      Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1.00         -       KSh 7.5
KSh 1.00        -      US$0.133
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/K Shilling
Exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 7.5 which is close
to the recent average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
EAC           East African Community
GCBP     -    Gravelling, Culverting and Bridging Program
MEPCA    -    Ministry of Economic Planning and Community Affairs
mOW      -    Ministry of Works
MPC           M Ministry of Power and Communications
MTD      -    Mechanical and Transport Department, MOW
RARP     -    Rural Access Roads Program
RD            Roads Department, MOW
STD           Staff Training Department, MOW
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 to June 30



KENYA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HIGHWAY SECTOR LOAN
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER             Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT           :  US$90.0 million equivalent
TERMS                21 years including 5-1/2 years of grace, with interest at
7% per annum
PROJECT              The proposed project would support the middle three years
DESCRIPTION         (1980-82) of the Government's five-year Highway Sector
Development Plan (1979-83), and the Loan would finance a
portion of new commitments entered into during 1980-82.
The main objectives of the Sector Plan are to preserve
investment in existing paved roads; to selectively upgrade
the existing road network; to establish equitable levels
of road access throughout Kenya, with special emphasis on
rural areas; to maintain existing classified roads to
acceptable standards; to strengthen the Ministry of Works;
and to enforce traffic regulations. Components of the
proposed project would include: (a) strengthening and
reconstruction of existing paved roads; (b) upgrading of
existing earth/gravel roads to bituminous paved standard,
and upgrading of existing earth roads to all-weather
standard; (c) extension of the Rural Access Roads Program;
(d) support for the maintenance program; (e) support for
the traffic law enforcement and road safety program; (f)
technical assistance and consultants' services for studies;
and (g) provision of buildings and equipment.
The project faces no special risks. Experience with
previous projects indicates that the Ministry of Works
is capable of implementing the proposed sector project
successfully. Before the Bank would commit funds for
road strengthening, reconstruction, construction or
improvement subprojects, the Government would be required
to submit subprojects to the Bank for approval, including
completion of detailed engineering and a feasibility study
showing a rate of return of at least 12% for the subproject
concerned.
ESTIMATED COSTS :  Total development expenditure for the Sector Plan period
is estimated at US$732.0 million (US$606.0 million exclud-
ing taxes and duties). The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$454.0 million, or 62% of the total cost.
An additional US$292.0 million (US$241.0 million excluding
taxes and duties) will be required for recurrent expenditure.
The proposed Loan is expected to support the following
components of the development program:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
NEW COMMITMENTS TO BE UNDERTAKEN FROM 1980-82
US$ Million
Local   Foreign  Total
Strengthening of paved roads              16.5      43.0     59.5
Reconstruction of paved roads             15.0      27.5     42.5
Upgrading of roads to paved standards   40.0        74.5    114.5
Upgrading of roads to all-weather
standard                                 7.0       8.0     15.0
Rural Access Roads Program                 2.5       1.5      4.0
Maintenance Program                        9.0      10.5      19.5
Traffic Law Enforcement and Road
Safety Program                           2.5       1.5      4.0
Technical Assistance and Consultants
Services                                 2.5      11.0     13.5
Other supporting activities                2.0       2.5      4.5
97.0    180.0    277.0
The program of US$277.0 million supported by the Bank Loan
will cover new commitments entered into during the 1980-82
period. Disbursements on those parts of the program are
expected to be completed by mid-1985.
FINANCING PLAN:                                                     US$ Million
Bank (under proposed Loan)                          90.0
Other External Sources                              60.0 1/
Government                                         127.0 2/
Total New Commitments from 1980-82                 277.0
of which taxes and duties                     48.0
Net New Commitments from 1980-82                  229.0
In addition, the Sector Plan includes for the 1980-82 period
an outstanding amount of US$260.0 million (including taxes
and duties estimated at US$45.5 million) for ongoing projects
already committed, plus US$184.0 million (including taxes and
duties estimated at US$32.0 million) for recurrent costs.
1/   Additional external financing is likely to become available during the
1980-82 period, although it has not yet been firmly identified.
2/   This figure represents the current estimate of funds required from
local sources. Should additional external financing become available,
the Government contribution would be correspondingly reduced.



ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS                                       US$ Million
Bank FY      1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual         5.4    15.5    25.9    20.8    17.9       4.5
Cumulative    5.4    20.9    46.8    67.6    85.5    90.0
RATE OF RETURN  :  No overall economic rate of return has been calculated
for the sector plan, although individual subprojects are
estimated to yield returns ranging from 10% to more than
100%. The minimum return required for any subproject
for road strengthening, reconstruction, construction or
improvement financed under the proposed loan would be 12%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 2276b-KE, dated March 6, 1979.
MAP              :   IBRD 13992






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$90.0 million to help
finance the highway sector development program. The loan would have a term
of 21 years, including 5-1/2 years of grace 1/, with interest at 7% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE,
dated March 28, 1979) has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A
summary of social and economic data is at Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on
Kenya is now under preparation--the mission to complete the report returned
from Kenya in mid-November.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        During the first fifteen years of independence Kenya has had con-
tinuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) invest-
ment in modern industry. With the death of President Kenyatta and the tensions
prevailing in the areas surrounding Kenya, there is inevitably some uncertainty
about the future. Nevertheless, present indications are that the main direc-
tions of Kenyan development strategy will be continued, albeit with increased
emphasis on poverty alleviation and social services.
4.        Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capita income in 1977 was US$270 and agriculture
accounted for one-third of GDP on average during the period 1975-77. Agri-
*          culture provided about 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood for the 90% of the population which lives in rural areas.
5.        There has been significant growth and structural change in the
economy since independence. Between 1964 and 1977 total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 5.8% although there was a sharp drop in the growth rate in
1/   These terms are longer than those normally used for Kenya.  However, the
terms of the First Telecommunications Project were shorter, and thus the
weighted average of final maturities and grace periods for loans to Kenya
in FY1979 would be within the guidelines established by the Executive
Directors.



1974 and 1975 caused by droughts and the international oil crisis.   Popula-
tion grew at nearly 3.5% per annum over the same period, and real per capita
income, thus, increased by over one-third between 1964 and 1975, or at an
annual rate of about 2.3%. During the period 1964-77 manufacturing was the
most rapidly growing of the major sectors; value added in manufacturing grew
at 9% per annum. Agricultural output expanded at 4.2% from 1964-73, but grew
at only 2.3% per annum from 1973-77. Over the entire period 1964-77, average
annual growth of agricultural production was 3.6%.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a number
of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain growth and to
reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of popul2tion in
th2 face of limited arable land. Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500
km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. Most of the high-potential land is
densely settled. Pressure on the land was alleviated during the years follow-
ing independence by the opening up of a large part of the land previously owned
by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan smallholders. However, with population
growing at 3.5% per annum pressure is mounting. This has resulted in increas-
ing subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas and in settlement in
semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. The non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15%
of the total labor force) is unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants
because of its small base. Considerable budgetary pressure has also been
created because of the growing demand for social services. Finally, efforts
to improve the distribution of income are impeded because of the relative lack
of access to land and education for the children of the poorest sections of
the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon invest-
ments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To
a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector increas-
ingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export.
10.       An additional problem is the stagnation of export volume in recent
years. From 1964-72 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate
of 4.6%. Between 1972 and 1974 export volume increased by an additional 11%
but since then it has not risen above the 1974 level. To some extent this is



- 3-
a reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is
also an indicator of the need to direct more resources into foreign exchange
earning activities.
Economic Performance 1974-78
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been dominated by swings
in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth rate fell
sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and other
import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated rapidly
in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage in Brazil
worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978 with the
decline in coffee prices toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76, thus protecting the balance of payments and keeping externally-
generated domestic price increases from getting out of hand. However, through-
out this period there were increasing pressures on the Government to expand
its expenditures emanating primarily from increased school enrollments and
abolition of fees for the first four years of education; concerns about
national security; and the need to replace EAC corporations with national
entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the Government decided to
greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and capital, to ensure that
the additional revenues would be used for development purposes. As a result,
the budget deficit rose from 4.0% of GDP in 1976/77 to 5.5% in 1977/78. At
the same time, the monetary authorities were doing little to limit the effect
of rising foreign exchange reserve levels on commercial bank liquidity and
expansion of credit to the private sector. As a result, credit to the private
sector grew by more than 30% in both 1977 and 1978. The combination of the
expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and the high agricultural incomes
produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a rapid rise in import levels.
By this time coffee prices had passed their peak and begun to decline. As
a result the trade deficit rose sharply in 1978 and the foreign exchange
reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance of goods and non-factor services
deteriorated from +US$157 million in 1977 to -US$289 million in 1978, while
reserves fell by US$180 million.
Fourth Five-Year Plan, 1979-83
13.       The major objective of the Fourth Plan is alleviation of poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social ser-
vices to meet basic needs. The Plan correctly identifies the key problems
that Kenya faces and sets forth a development strategy appropriate to their
solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in its recommendations, and shows
a sound awareness of constraints on development.
14.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and



pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
posed to redress the neglect of these areas.
15.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
16.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and
will be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls
for a more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and
intervention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial in-
vestment incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally,
while there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector
can play in the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recom-
mendations for aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical sup-
port and ending of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the
previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.5%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
Economic Prospects
18.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,
especially the target growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due to
balance of payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more severe
and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.   The
balance of payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout the
Plan period for three reasons. First, the terms of trade are projected to
deteriorate through 1982, largely due to the falling coffee prices. Second,
there has been a significant increase in the level of commercial borrowing to
finance large expenditures for successors to the EAC corporations and other



large projects. Finally, prompted by growing political tensions in Eastern
Africa and the realization that the country had spent very little on defense
since independence, Kenya carried out a major program to re-equip its armed
forces in 1977-78. The equipment has been purchased on credit the repayment
of which will have a substantial impact on the balance of payments throughout
the Plan period.
19.       The budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the
Plan. First, the balance of payments problem will constrain the rate of
growth of the economy and of revenue. Second, the President has recently
announced several measures which are not included in the Plan but which will
have significant direct budgetary consequences. These measures include:
(a) provision of free milk for students in the first seven years of school;
(b) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth years of elementary
school; (c) initiation of a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase
in employment in the public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage
restraint. Finally, the increased military expenditures will also increase
budgetary pressure.
20.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has slowed the growth of credit, limited import license approvals, and
in December 1978 introduced import deposit regulations. These measures should
have some immediate impact on import levels, but it will be necessary to intro-
duce a more comprehensive program, including budgetary restraint to limit the
growth of aggregate demand, and measures to increase exports, in order to
bring the balance of payments into equilibrium over the longer run.
External Debt
21.       The recent expansion of Government and Government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to 17% currently including service payments on a notional 50%
share of the debt of the EAC corporations. The debt service ratio is expected
to remain approximately at this level until the mid 1980s and to decline
thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 11.8% of total debt service
payments; the IDA share is 0.5%. The Bank's share of total debt service
payments is projected to rise to 19.5% by 1985 while IDA's share will rise to
0.9%. The Bank is presently holding 15% of Kenya's total debt and IDA 8%; the
Bank's share is expected to rise to 27% and IDA's to 14% by 1985. 1/ Because of
the long-term balance of payments constraint, Kenya's development program will
require substantial financing in excess of public savings and available
non-Bank Group external capital combined and we therefore expect to continue
our practice of financing a substantial portion of total project costs,
including some local costs when necessary.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
22.       The major developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)
1/   The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated
repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor,
however, is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to
straight grants (including conversion of some loans to grants).



-6-
and more recent developments were outlined in a statement to the Executive
Directors at the Board meeting held on January 4, 1979. Dr. Victor Umbricht,
the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, is continuing his
work on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC corporations. The
establishment of national corporations to replace the former EAC corporations
has in some cases required large expenditures (para. 18) but the burden on the
Government budget will hopefully be temporary, as the new corporations are
expected to become self-financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania
has had some effect on trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan
manufactured goods and new markets are being developed. As Tanzanian exports
to Kenya were small, replacing these should not be a major issue except in
specific commodities (i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also
had a slightly negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to
overcome this by developing beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
23.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 31 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 26 IDA credits amounting to US$857.1 million, supporting 49
operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya
and to the East African Community Corporations, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of February 28, 1979.
24.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors (partic-
ularly agriculture). While recent sector and economic work has also focused
on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed interna-
tional economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to comprehen-
sively address the issues of income distribution, population growth, and
appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
25.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income dis-
tribution objectives. Projects approved since July 1977 include the first
Integrated Agricultural Development Project aimed directly at small subsistence
farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-intensive infrastruc-
tural developments; and an Irrigation Project which will open up significant
new areas for settlement. The Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya
for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya conserve its wildlife
and exploit its foreign exchange earning potential. The industrial lending
program included a third loan to the Industrial Development Bank and a Small
Scale Industry Project. Recently an Engineering Project (Olkaria Geothermal),
a Narok Agricultural Development Project, a Sugar Rehabilitation Project,
a Rural Water Supply Project and a First Telecommunications Project were
approved. A smallholder coffee improvement project, a second integrated
agricultural development project, a pilot scheme for development of arid and
semi-arid areas and a third power project have been appraised, and a second
population project, a fisheries project and a third urban project are under
preparation.



- 7 -
26.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was suf-
fering from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Government increased
beef prices substantially in early 1978 and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has
also been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group
owners to participate. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious cost overruns,
most notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction projects.
The Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these projects.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
27.       IFC has committed a total of US$36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of February 28, 1979, IFC held for its own account US$28.4
million comprising US$20.4 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of IFC investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
28.       Kenya's rapid economic growth has placed tremendous demands on the
transport sector, especially during the intensive period of development in
the late 1960s and early 1970s. The heaviest concentration of transport
facilities--road, rail and air services--is along the 1,000 km corridor from
Mombasa on the coast to the Ugandan border, via Nairobi. This densely popu-
lated area of major economic importance contains over half of Kenya's popula-
tion. Practically all of the 2,100 km rail network and a sizeable proportion
of the 50,600 km road network is in the Mombasa-Ugandan border corridor, which
is also a major transport route for goods to and from Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi
and parts of eastern Zaire. The transport network is gradually being extended
outside the corridor, but more than half the country, in the north and east,
is arid and sparsely populated and has few transport links.
29.       Roads have gradually improved since the late 1960s, and an increas-
ing proportion of long-distance haulage has gone by road. Road transport
accounted for 6.55 million tons (59%) of the total tonnage handled in 1976,
and railways for the remaining 4.6 million tons (41%). The railways carried
1.3 million passengers in 1976, but competition from the bus industry is
increasing. Mombasa port handles most of the country's imports and exports
as well as transit traffic for surrounding countries. International air
transport scheduled services are provided to Nairobi, one of the principal
aviation centers in Africa; traffic in 1977 amounted to 1.3 million passen-
gers. Mombasa has the only other international airport, but a further four
airports serve the country's internal aviation needs. White oil products are
transported from Mombasa to Nairobi by a 425 km pipeline which went into full
operation in early 1978.
Transport Planning and Coordination
30.       Transport planning is divided among three ministries:  that for high-
ways is undertaken by the Ministry of Works (MOW); the Ministry of Power and
Communications (MPC) is responsible for planning of all other transport modes



- 8 -
as well as regulation of the road network and road transport industry; and
coordination of planning is under the aegis of the Ministry of Economic Plan-
ning and Community Affairs (MEPCA). Intermodal planning and transport coor-
dination issues received insufficient attention in the past, mainly because
little could be done to improve investment and pricing policies when some of
Kenya's transport modes were under EAC authority. Prior to the de facto break-
up of EAC, the railways, harbors and airways were operated by EAC corporations.
Now that national transport authorities have been established for all trans-
port modes, however, it is possible to establish a more effective national
transport planning system.
31.       The Bank Group has been particularly concerned about the allocation
of resources between roads and railways, especially in the Mombasa-Ugandan
border corridor. This problem was also focussed on in the Highway Transport
Study (para. 45) which estimated that about one million tons of goods presently
transported by road could more economically go by rail. To establish a more
effective national transport planning policy, the Government would set up
an interministerial committee on road/rail coordination by January 1, 1980.
This committee would include high level representatives of MOW, MPC, MEPCA
and Kenya Railways, and would advise the Government on transport policy and
formulate measures to improve transport planning and coordination (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.06).
The Highway Subsector
32.       Kenya's classified road network is approximately 50,600 km long;
of this, 4,300 km are paved, 15,900 km are gravel, and 30,400 km are earth.
Secondary, minor and special purpose roads, such as those serving tea, sugar
and tourist areas, form 74% of the network compared to 16% primary and 10%
trunk roads. About one-third of the paved road network is in poor or critical
condition. In addition, many earth and gravel roads have not been maintained
to adequate standards, and are in need of improvement. MOW started a road
inventory in 1971; 62% of the classified network was covered by 1976, but work
was discontinued thereafter because of lack of funds and vehicles. Updated
information is consequently needed on the length of the network (by road
class and type) as well as on the condition of the improved road network.
To provide this information, MOW would re-establish the road inventory by
June 30, 1980 and subsequently maintain it (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2,
Part D (3)).
Traffic Growth and Characteristics
33.       The vehicle fleet has increased at an annual rate of 7% since 1965,
to a total of 215,734 vehicles in 1976, when vehicle density was 16 per thou-
sand population. Traffic volumes on the classified road network also increased
by an average of 6% per year, and provisional figures show that 1977 increases
in traffic levels and the size of the vehicle fleet were well above the average
growth rate for the preceding decade.
34.       MOW's Road Research Unit, which regularly. surveys vehicle weights on
most main roads, has found that the maximum 8 ton single axle load permitted
under present legislation has been generally disregarded; the average axle
load of medium and heavy trucks is 13 tons on the Mombasa-Ugandan border road



- 9 -
and 11 tons on other main roads. However, preliminary work by the Transport
and Road Research Laboratory (UK) indicates that present axle-load limits
should be raised, and could even be as high as 11 to 13 tons. Road user
charges also need to be reviewed, since it is possible that road haulers may
not be meeting the full cost of the damage that their trucks inflict on the
roads. A study with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would therefore
be completed by January 1, 1981, to examine the level of road user charges in
relation to the capital and recurrent expenditure on the road network and to
determine the optimum economic axle load limits. The study would also deter-
mine whether road/rail pricing is competitive and propose alternative stra-
tegies of apportioning road user charges, and the program for implementation
of the recommendations of the study would be submitted to the Bank for review
(draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part E).
The Ministry of Works
35.       MOW is responsible for administration, construction and maintenance
of the classified highway system. The Permanent Secretary (Engineer-in-Chief)
heads five departments: the Roads Department (RD) is responsible for plan-
ning, construction and maintenance of roads; the Mechanical and Transport
Department (MTD) is responsible for most of the procurement and maintenance
of MOW vehicles and equipment, and also maintains some other ministries'
vehicles; the Staff Training Department (STD) trains all RD and MTD super-
visory and lower level personnel; the Administration Department handles MOW's
personnel and financial affairs; and the Buildings Department is responsible
for all Government buildings.
36.       The Roads Department (RD) has constructed over 7,000 km of roads
since 1970, and has been responsible for the maintenance of all the classified
road network since 1968. RD has coped well with the growth in its volume of
work, albeit with some delays, while simultaneously developing its institutional
capability. Road maintenance improved considerably between 1970 and 1975,
but then began to decline. Shortage of recurrent funds and the deteriorating
performance of MTD (para. 37) have resulted in a backlog of resealing and
regravelling work, as well as routine maintenance, and staffing of RD's Main-
tenance Branch also requires strengthening (para. 57).
37.       The Mechanical and Transport Department (MTD) hires out vehicles
and plant to user departments under an arrangement called the funding scheme
(para. 55). The Maintenance Branch of RD is the main user hiring about 85% of
all MTD vehicles and equipment. MTD's performance has deteriorated in recent
years mainly because of insufficient funds to replace equipment beyond its
economic life, the lengthy waiting time for spare parts, and inadequate numbers
of mechanics and workshops.  However, after a study of the problems causing
low equipment availability rates, a list of measures has been drawn up to
improve MTD's performance (para. 54).
38.       The Staff Training Department (STD) trains subprofessional personnel
for all MOW departments (road supervisors, officers-in-charge, mechanics, equip-
ment operators and drivers). STD's performance since its expansion in 1971 has
been extremely good, and adequate numbers of staff have been trained to fill
nearly all of RD's posts for junior supervisors, plant operators and drivers.



- 10 -
The substantial needs of the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) and the Gravel-
ling, Culverting and Bridging Program (GCBP) have also been met (para. 42).
STD plans to expand its training program to meet the increasing need for
trained manpower. MOW also has a sound training program for engineers re-
cently graduated from university which includes in-house training for three
years. The training program should gradually satisfy RD's senior staffing
requirements.
Road Planning and Financing
39.       Road planning is undertaken by RD's Planning Unit after consultation
with other ministries, and the plans are submitted to MEPCA for approval. The
annual budget for road construction and maintenance is also prepared by RD,
and reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Finance before being submitted
for approval to the Cabinet and Parliament. Government revenues from road
user taxes amounted to about US$70 million in 1976, exceeding total highway
construction and maintenance expenditures in that year. Even with the in-
crease in construction and maintenance expenditures proposed under the Highway
Sector Development Plan, road user revenues will cover all maintenance costs
and will continue to contribute substantially to construction costs.
Engineering and Construction
40.       MOW uses its own staff whenever possible for road design work, but
due to the shortage of sufficiently experienced engineering staff, a number of
international consultancy firms operating out of Nairobi carry out a substan-
tial portion of the detailed engineering. MOW is reviewing its road design
standards to incorporate current and projected needs, particularly with
respect to traffic characteristics, axle loading, pavement types and thick-
nesses, surface types, and drainage; a new Road Design Manual is expected to
be completed shortly.
41.       Highway construction is for the most part carried out by contract.
The local contracting industry in Kenya has grown considerably in recent years,
and major works have been awarded both to large local firms and to foreign
firms with branches in Kenya. Smaller works, notably isolated bridge construc-
tion and gravelling contracts, have generally been awarded to smaller local
contractors, and to support MOW's efforts to encourage the local contractors,
the Bank is currently discussing with Government the possible provision of
Bank assistance to the local contracting industry. Supervision of road con-
struction work is normally carried out by consultants, although RD has super-
vised a few projects. RD expects to be further involved in supervision when
more experienced engineering staff is available. Apart from construction
under the RARP and GCBP (para. 42), MOW is using its own construction units
on several projects, mostly in remote areas, to construct 400 km of trunk
roads and 790 km of other roads. The output of force account units has
gradually improved over the past few years, and once MTD's efficiency in
providing equipment for hire improves, the productivity of these units should
rise further.



- 11 -
RARP and GCBP
42.       Kenya's Third Development Plan 1974-78 emphasized development and
improvement of secondary, minor and rural access roads. To carry out this
work, two programs were established: the RARP to construct about 15,000 km
of low-cost rural access roads by predominantly labor-intensive methods in
23 of Kenya's most populous and agriculturally productive districts; and
the GCBP to upgrade about 10,000 km of secondary and minor classified roads
to all-weather standard. The GCBP will improve many of the secondary and
minor roads which have not been improved in the past decade or have deter-
iorated because of inadequate maintenance, while the RARP, which is funded by
the Government, the Bank Group (Ln. 1305/Cr.651-KE) and various other lending
agencies, will ultimately increase traffic levels on the secondary and minor
roads fed by rural access roads.
Bank Group Involvement in the Roads Subsector
43.       Since 1960, the Bank Group has provided about US$124.2 million to
Kenya for highway projects or for road components of agricultural projects,
financing the construction of about 1,000 km of trunk roads and about 7,900
km of feeder, special purpose agricultural and rural access roads. These
projects also serve to strengthen highway maintenance operations, enforce
traffic regulations, and provide technical assistance for MOW and MPC.
44.       The First Highway Project (Cr. 70-KE) was completed in 1969, the
Tea Roads Project (Cr. 77-KE) in 1970, and the Agricultural Roads Project
(Cr. 104-KE) in 1971. Project Performance Audit Reports have been completed
for two projects - the Second Highway Project (Cr. 120-KE, Audit Report No.
846) completed in 1972, and the Third Highway Project (Ln. 639-KE, Audit
Report No. 2062) completed in 1975. Both projects encountered substantial
cost overruns and delays in implementation, partly because of design changes,
increased quantities, and contractor problems. Mostly because of cost over-
runs, re-evaluated rates of return on some roads were lower (less than 10%)
than those estimated at appraisal, even though traffic levels on most roads
were above the levels projected. However, with the sharp increase in traffic
levels since 1976, some of these roads may now be justified. The major lesson
gained from these two projects is that road design standards were inadequate,
even for projected traffic levels. This situation has been made worse by
traffic volumes above projected levels, as well as higher axle loads. Conse-
quently, RD is now in the process of raising design standards (para. 40).
Measures were also taken to control vehicle overloading under the Fourth
Highway Project (Cr. 276-KE). All cost estimates for the Highway Sector
Development Plan have been based on higher design standards and on traffic
projections derived from past trends. Longer contracting periods have also
been allowed given the delays experienced under previous projects.
45.       There are four ongoing Bank Group financed projects.  The Highway
Maintenance Project (Cr. 224-KE) was designed to establish a sound maintenance
organization; it has run into problems because of lack of recurrent funds and
poor administration of MTD. The Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Cr. 276-KE
and Ln. 932-KE) have generally progressed satisfactorily, although implemen-
tation has been deliberately delayed by Government because of a cutback in



- 12 -
road sector expenditure during 1975-76 due to overall budgetary constraints.
In addition the Fifth Highway Project encountered substantial cost overruns
because of international inflation caused by the oil crisis. The Rural
Access Roads Project (Ln. 1305/Cr.651-KE) (para. 42) is financing eight of
the 43 construction units under RARP. After initial problems in setting up
the program, progress is improving; so far, six Bank-financed units have been
established and work is progressing satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE HIGHWAY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Background
46.       The Highway Sector Development Plan (Sector Plan) for 1979-83,
prepared by MOW in conjunction with MPC and the Road Traffic Police, covers
capital and recurrent expenditures for three programs: road construction;
maintenance; and traffic law enforcement and road safety. The road construc-
tion and maintenance programs included in the Sector Plan were drawn up as part
of a Highway Transport Study, prepared by the Planning Unit of MOW with assis-
tance from a three-man team of transport economists financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency. This study also reviewed in detail the
classification system of the highway network, road transport, and highway
system performance and objectives. A more general review was made of road-
rail coordination and user charges, road safety, and transport in rural areas.
Given the large scale of development plans for the sector and the complexity
of financing arrangements with many other donors (para. 60), a change to sector
rather than project financing offers significant advantages.
47.       The sector lending approach has facilitated Bank participation in the
overall formulation and appraisal of the Sector Plan, and comment by the Bank
on the broader sector policy issues. Implementation of the Sector Plan has
already begun.
Objectives of the Highway Sector Development Plan
48.       The main objectives of the Sector Plan are:
(a) to preserve investment in Kenya's existing paved roads;
(b) to selectively upgrade the existing road network;
(c) to establish equitable levels of road access throughout
the country, with special emphasis on rural areas;
(d) to maintain the existing 50,600 km classified road network
to acceptable standards;
(e) to strengthen MOW; and
(f)  to enforce traffic regulations.
The Sector Plan forms part of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (para. 13)
and will support Government's intention to preserve and improve utilization of
existing infrastructure.



- 13 -
Road Construction Program
49.       The road construction program aims to improve and construct 16,600
km of roads, 90% of which will serve rural areas (as primary, secondary, minor
and rural access roads). About 1,690 km of trunk roads will be constructed
compared to 820 km of primary, 5,525 km of secondary and minor and 8,600 km of
rural access roads. Because of much higher construction costs per km, trunk
roads account for 47% of total road construction expenditure while rural roads
account for the remaining 53%. To implement the program provision has been
made for consultant services, technical assistance and equipment for the
Materials Branch of MOW.
50.       Strengthening of Paved Roads.  The strengthening program aims at
providing drainage improvement and overlaying of 664 km of paved roads which
are extensively damaged or deteriorated. The roads will be strengthened to
standards which allow for increased traffic volumes and axle loads, partic-
ularly on the Mombasa-Ugandan border road. Detailed engineering for the
strengthening program will be carried out by consultants and MOW, and will be
prepared on the basis of the revised Road Design Manual (para. 40) and accord-
ing to the least-cost alternative. Since it is difficult at this stage to
predict which roads will need strengthening beyond 1982, the road strengthen-
ing program for the fiscal years 1983-86 would be prepared by December 31,
1981 and reviewed by Government and the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section
4.07).
51.       Reconstruction and Upgrading of Trunk and Primary Roads.  The pro-
gram includes reconstruction and realignment of 108 km of failed trunk roads,
upgrading of about .920 km of trunk roads, construction of some bridges, and
upgrading of about 820 km of primary roads. Of the total of 1,740 km to be
upgraded, 920 km will be improved to bituminous paved standard to reduce
vehicle operating and road maintenance costs, and 640 km will be upgraded to
all-weather standard to support agricultural development activities in various
parts of the country. The remaining 180 km for upgrading are international
trunk roads to Sudan and Ethiopia, but standards will depend on the recommend-
ations of feasibility studies and discussions with external agencies prepared
to finance these roads.
52.       Upgrading of Secondary and Minor Roads.  Of the 5,525 km of second-
ary and minor roads to be upgraded, the bulk (4,500 km) will fall under the
ongoing GCBP (para. 42); the work will involve gravelling, selective bituminiz-
ing of steep slopes, and selected minor improvements on priority secondary and
minor roads. Another program will support service centers (urban centers of
different sizes throughout the country) by improving 240 km of secondary and
minor roads to all-weather standard to ensure year-round provision of essential
supplies and better access to educational, medical and marketing facilities in
these centers. The remaining 785 km of secondary and minor roads not included
in the GCBP or service center programs are mainly ongoing projects.
53.       Rural Access Roads Program.  Under the Sector Plan, the original
target of constructing 15,000 km of roads with 74 construction units has been
modified due to organizational problems of running so many construction units.
The program will now extend over a longer period so that a reduced number of
units (43) can complete the 15,000 km. During the Sector Plan period about



- 14 -
8,600 km of roads will be constructed in 23 districts.  All necessary engineer-
ing is done in the field by construction unit engineers following guidelines
agreed with the Bank under the Rural Access Roads Project.
Maintenance Program
54.       At the Bank's suggestion, MOW has drawn up a comprehensive five-year
maintenance program, including both capital and recurrent expenditures, which
would provide for maintenance of the entire network besides catching up with
a backlog of resealing work on paved roads, and part of the backlog of gravel-
ling work. The GCBP will handle roads needing substantial rehabilitation in
addition to regravelling. The maintenance program is designed to improve
MTD's performance through provision of additional workshops, workshop equip-
ment and tools, as well as road maintenance vehicles and equipment. It will
also enable MTD to establish an inventory of spare parts in order to set up
its own stores and major spare parts holdings, thus eliminating lengthy delays
in delivery of supplies from private dealers. Inadequate funds were provided
for road maintenance in the past; accordingly, annual targets for provision of
recurrent funds for road maintenance during the years 1980-82 have been agreed
with the Bank. Satisfactory progress in improving the efficiency of MTD would
be a condition of approval of subprojects for Bank financing (para. 69).
55.       MTD hires out vehicles and equipment to a number of user agencies.
To cover maintenance and renewal expenditures, MTD receives an allocation from
the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of each fiscal year. The allocation
is subsequently repaid to the Ministry of Finance during the course of the
year as MTD collects hire (or funding) charges for the use of the vehicles
and equipment. Although the funding system is basically sound, it does not
operate efficiently. Nor is the exact number of vehicles and equipment that
will need to be rehabilitated or replaced each year known. MTD has begun to
carry out a limited inventory of maintenance equipment, and a complete inven-
tory would be prepared by June 30, 1980 with assistance of consultants or
technical assistance. After completion of the inventory, MOW would carry out
by January 1, 1981 a detailed review of the funding system, with assistance of
consultants or technical assistance, to make specific proposals for improving
the system. Terms of reference for the review have been agreed with the Bank,
and recommendations on how to make more effective use of the system, appro-
priate funding levels and improvements in administration would be submitted
to the Bank for comment (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part D (6)).
56.       In addition, to permit more effective monitoring of maintenance
activities, the Maintenance Branch would establish a pilot cost-accounting
system by September 30, 1980 in one province. Terms of reference for the
pilot system have been agreed with the Bank, and the objective would be the
establishment of an adequate cost-accounting system which could eventually
be extended to all provinces (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part D (4)).
Staffing and Training
57.       Although MOW's training programs are generally adequate to meet
staffing needs, some further strengthening is required. The capacity of
RD's Design Section is constrained by the need for improved training of
engineers in design, and the Maintenance Branch also requires additional



- 15 -
uaintenance engineers at the provincial level. Accordingly, employment and
training programs would be agreed between the Government and the Bank by
September 30, 1979, and additional road maintenance and design engineers
(whose responsibilities would include training of graduate engineers) would
be employed by September 30, 1980 (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part D(2).
Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety Program
58.       The Sector Plan includes both capital and recurrent funds for the
construction of five fully equipped vehicle inspection centers and the estab-
lishment of ten additional police patrol bases, including three electronic
mobile weighbridges. These measures should help to reduce road accidents
caused by unsafe commercial vehicles. To the same end, police patrols will
be expanded to enforce traffic laws (especially control of speeding, drunk and
dangerous driving) more effectively. The provision of at least one ambulance
for each police base should also help to reduce the number of deaths resulting
from road accidents by making it possible to transport the injured to hospital
more quickly. Adequate annual recurrent funds would be provided for the
operation of police patrol bases and vehicle inspection centers (draft Loan
Agreement, Annex to Schedule 2).
Program Costs and Financing
59.       The five-year Sector Plan (1979-83) will cost about US$1,024.0
million including price and physical contingencies, and taxes and duties
estimated at US$177.0 million. Development expenditures account for US$732.0
million of the total, including US$126.0 million in taxes and duties. Of this
amount, 83% is for road construction, 5% for maintenance, and 12% for traffic
law enforcement and road safety, and supporting activities; nearly half
relates to ongoing projects. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about 62% of total expenditures. An additional US$292.0 million, including
taxes and duties estimated at US$51.0 million, is planned to cover recurrent
expenditures. Of this, nearly 85% would be for road maintenance (excluding
training), representing a substantial increase over current levels of recurrent
maintenance expenditure. In real terms, the program cost represents a 25%
increase over total expenditures in the previous five years, 1974-78. However,
the Sector Plan represents the same proportion (nearly 9%) of total Government
projected expenditures during 1979-83 as during the previous Plan period,
1974-78.
60.       Apart from the Bank Group, a number of outside donors are supporting
road construction in Kenya and plan to continue doing so. These include the
African Development Bank, the European Economic Community, Norway, UK, Japan,
Canada, USAID, Federal Republic of Germany, Denmark, and the Netherlands.
Likely external assistance from these sources, including the proposed Bank
loan, accounts for US$299.0 million or about 49% of development program costs,
including contingencies but excluding taxes and duties. In addition, there
are prospects for further assistance from the European Economic Community,
Canada, Japan and the UK, estimated at about US$117.0 million, a further
19% of net program costs. Although as yet unidentified, further external
financing may well be provided by other agencies already lending to Kenya,
particularly for the last two years of the Plan. Even if no further finance
is forthcoming Government should be able to cover the residual amount of



- 16 -
development expenditures ranging from US$190.0 million to US$307.0 million net
of taxes and duties. In addition, Government will finance recurrent expendi-
tures (estimated at US$241.0 million net of taxes and duties) with the excep-
tion of technical assistance and possibly some maintenance equipment.
Economic Analysis
61.       The road construction program proposed in the Sector Plan is the
result of an extensive economic analysis including estimation of net present
values, internal rates of return and cost-benefit ratios. A large number of
new projects were initially screened to obtain a short list of projects which
were subsequently evaluated to determine priorities. Further analysis of
each project will be undertaken by RD's Planning Unit prior to construction
in order to include any refinements of economic analysis that may be needed.
A separate economic analysis of the road maintenance program was also carried
out.
62.       Internal rates of return for all projects included in the Sector
Plan (both new and ongoing, although about five ongoing projects were not
evaluated) range from 10% to more than 100%. The maintenance program has
the highest rate of return--earth, gravel and paved roads all have rates of
return well over 100%.  The paved road strengthening program also has some of
the highest economic rates of return, varying from 17% to 100% or more, with
most projects well over 25%. Trunk and primary road projects are expected to
yield rates of return ranging from 10% to 39% for reconstruction and upgrad-
ing to bitumen standard, and from 14% to 88% for upgrading to all-weather
standard. Rates of return for the two trunk roads to Sudan and Ethiopia are,
however, uncertain until the conclusion of feasibility studies. The rate of
return on the GCBP, evaluated over two years ago, was 10%, and on the RARP,
evaluated in 1976, 12%. Other secondary and minor roads to be constructed
under the service center program (para. 52) will be evaluated separately but
are expected to have rates of return of over 12%.
Assessment of the Program
63.       The five-year Sector Plan is well conceived; it meets Kenya's
development needs, is economically warranted and financially and physically
feasible. The Plan has been evaluated in terms of its balance of investment
among trunk, primary, secondary, minor and rural access roads. The adequacy
of the planned level of maintenance has been reviewed, as have been the
technical and economic feasibility criteria which MOW will use to assess
subprojects. All these have been found satisfactory. Prior to the commence-
ment of each fiscal year during the project period, the upcoming year's work
program would be reviewed by the Bank (para. 66).
64.       MOW has become an effective institution since its reorganization
in 1970 and has developed a good planning and training capacity. Even at a
time of organizational change during the 1969-74 period, MOW carried out a
large construction program. More recently, it has shown flexibility in the
course of establishing two large force account programs (RARP and GCBP) which
necessitated both changing and innovating work systems. Although new staff
will be required for the expanded strengthening, construction and improvement
programs, Government expects to meet this requirement through strengthening of



- 17 -
existing training programs and through technical assistance where necessary.
A program to meet MOW's projected staffing and training requirements would
be agreed between Government and the Bank (para. 57). MOW's institutional
capacity, after nine Bank-financed highway projects, is viewed as sufficient
to administer and implement a sector lending operation. This capacity in-
cludes the ability to plan and bring projects forward in a timely manner.
PART V - THE PROJECT
65.       The proposed project consists of the middle three years (1980-82)
of Kenya's five-year Highway Sector Development Plan. During preparation of
the Sector Plan, the Bank was able to participate in its overall formulation,
and to comment on the broader sector policy issues. The proposed project was
appraised in August/September 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
in February 1979, and the Government delegation was led by Mr. S. Mbugua,
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Works. A report entitled "Kenya -
Appraisal of a Highway Sector Project" (No. 2276b-KE dated March 6, 1979) is
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A loan and project
summary is at the front of this report, and a supplementary project data sheet
is at Annex III.
Project Description
66.       The detailed project description is given below:
(a) The Road Construction Program would include strengthening
of about 500 km of paved roads, reconstruction and upgrading
of about 1,400 km of trunk and primary roads, upgrading of
about 3,600 km of secondary and minor roads, and construc-
tion of about 5,800 km of rural access roads.
(b) The Maintenance Program would include resealing of about
2,600 km of paved roads, regravelling of about 4,200 km of
gravel roads, and maintenance of the total classified road
network. A spare parts supplies system would be set up, and
mechanical workshops, stores, workshop tools and equipment
and road maintenance vehicles and equipment would be pro-
vided to effectively carry out the road maintenance program.
(c) The Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety Program would
include the provision of ten additional police patrol bases
(including police patrol vehicles and ambulances), three
electronic mobile weighbridges, and five fully-equipped
vehicle inspection centers.
(d) MOW Management and Operations would be strengthened through
the assistance of engineering consultants for detailed en-
gineering and supervision of road construction, provision of
vehicles and equipment for the Materials Branch road testing
laboratories, and strengthening of MOW staffing and training.
The road inventory would be re-established, the inventory of



- 18 -
road maintenance vehicles and the equipment fleet held by MTD
would be completed, and a detailed review of MTD's funding
system would be carried out. A cost-accounting system for
highway maintenance would also be introduced on a pilot
basis in one province, in order to draw up an adequate cost-
accounting system which could eventually be extended to all
provinces.
(e) A Study of Road User Charges and Axle Load Limits would examine
the level of road user charges in relation to the capital and
recurrent expenditure on the road network, and determine the
optimum economic axle load limits.
Physical construction and maintenance targets as well as recurrent budget
targets for road maintenance and operation of traffic police patrol bases and
vehicle inspection centers for the middle three years of the Sector Plan have
been agreed with the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Annex to Schedule 2). Prior
to the beginning of each fiscal year during the project period, the Bank would
review the upcoming year's work program and related financing plan for the
highway sector, including the traffic law enforcement and road safety program,
and Government would provide sufficient resources to carry out the annual
program (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
Costs and Financing
67.       The proposed loan of US$90.0 million would support new development
commitments undertaken during the middle three years (1980-82) of the Sector
Plan amounting to about US$277.0 million (including taxes and duties estimated
at US$48.0 million). The loan would cover foreign exchange costs except for
the Rural Access Roads Program where a small amount (US$0.8 million) of local
cost financing would be involved. Financing of the remaining US$187.0 million
of development commitments entered into during the 1980-82 period would be
provided by other external donors and the Government as shown in the Loan and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report. In addition, the Sector Plan
includes for the 1980-82 period an outstanding amount of US$260.0 million
(including taxes and duties estimated at US$45.5 million) for ongoing projects
already committed, plus US$184.0 million (including taxes and duties estimated
at US$32.0 million) for recurrent costs.
68.       Loan proceeds would be committed to broad categories of expenditure
in the following amounts:



- 19 -
US$ million
Fiscal Years  1980   1981   1982   Total    %
Strengthening of existing paved roads         7.9   30.7    1.8   40.4    45
Reconstruction of existing paved roads       24.7      -       -    24.7    27
Upgrading of existing earth roads
to all-weather standard                      -      2.6    1.8    4.4      5
Rural Access Roads Program                     -       -     2.5    2.5      3
Maintenance Program                            3.2    4.4    2.6   10.2    11
Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety
Program                                     0.5    0.5    0.5    1.5       2
Technical assistance and consultants'
services                                    4.4    1.9      -      6.3     7
Total                                   40.7   40.1    9.2   90.0   100
Although all the subprojects which the Bank would finance have not been finally
identified, commitments are expected to be made in line with this schedule.
Should the need arise, funds would be transferred from one category to another,
depending on the pattern of implementation.
Sector Measures
69.       Bank participation in the Sector Plan would be conditional upon MOW
and other subsector agencies taking measures, on a continuing basis, aimed at
protecting the existing road system and ensuring balanced implementation of
the Plan. These measures include satiBfactory progress in:
(a)  setting up an inter-ministerial committee on road/rail
coordination by January 1, 1980 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.06);
(b)  carrying out a study of road user charges and axle load
limits by January 1, 1981 and submission to the Bank for
comment of a program for implementation of the study's
recommendations (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part E);
(c)  meeting projected staffing and training requirements for
MOW based on programs to be agreed between the Government
and the Bank by September 30, 1979 (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 2, Part D(2));
(d)  meeting physical completion targets for maintenance,
strengthening, reconstruction, construction, and improvement
of roads in various classes (draft Loan Agreement, Annex to
Schedule 2);
(e)  meeting targets for annual recurrent funds for road mainte-
nance and for operation of police patrol bases and vehicle
inspection centers (draft Loan Agreement, Annex to Schedule 2);



- 20 -
(f) establishing by September 30, 1980, a pilot cost-accounting
system satisfactory to the Bank for maintenance activities
in one province in order to draw up an adequate cost-
accounting system which can eventually be extended to all
provinces (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part D(4)); and
(g) improving the efficiency of MTD (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03).
Should satisfactory progress not be made in meeting these general sector
conditions, or if there are major departures from the Highway Sector Develop-
ment Plan, the Bank may postpone approval of subsequent subprojects submitted
for financing until adequate corrective action has been taken (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(e)).
Implementation
70.        The proposed loan would be channeled through three Ministries: MOW
for the road construction and maintenance programs, and the Office of the
President and MPC for the traffic law enforcement and road safety programs.
MOW would submit individual subprojects to the Bank for financing. Before
commitment of funds for road strengthening, reconstruction, construction or
improvement subprojects, the Bank would require: (a) completion of detailed
engineering to satisfactory standards (engineering requirements for rural
access roads and improvement of earth roads to all-weather standard would
be less stringent); (b) a feasibility study showing a rate of return of not
less than 12%, and (c) a demonstration that the proposed subproject is of the
highest priority for which financing is not otherwise available (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(c) and (d)). All subproject proposals would be
submitted to the Bank not later than June 30, 1981 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02(f)). Subprojects to be financed by-the Bank during 1980 have
been agreed but the timing and content of further subprojects to be financed
under the proposed loan are as yet unknown. However, work programs would be
submitted to the Bank for review prior to the commencement of each fiscal year
(para. 66). Bank participation in the strengthening of MTD and the Traffic
Law Enforcement and Road Safety Program has been identified, and a detailed
implementation schedule covering the middle three years of the Sector Plan for
these items has been confirmed.
71.       Agreement has been reached on detailed requirements for monitoring
project progress. MOW would submit annual program reports to the Bank; the
first such report would cover the period ending June 30, 1980. In addition,
MOW would submit six-monthly subproject progress reports, beginning with the
period ending December 31, 1979.
Procurement and Disbursement
72.        Contracts for all Bank-financed subprojects for road strengthening,
reconstruction and improvement to bituminous paved standard would be awarded
after international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. For purposes of bid comparison, a preference of 7-1/2% would be
applied to bids from qualified domestic contractors. Contracts for improve-
ment of earth roads to all-weather standard and for resealing and regravelling



- 21 -
would either be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
or the work would be carried out by force account. However, construction of
rural access roads (estimated cost US$2.5 million) would be carried out by
MOW's RARP road constructions units; the procedures would be the same as those
followed under the Rural Access Roads Project. Equipment purchases proposed
for Bank financing would be agreed with the Bank in advance; procurement
would be through ICB unless the Bank agrees with the Government that other
procedures are justified due to requirements for standardization. For pur-
poses of bid comparison, qualified domestic manufacturers would be granted a
preference of 15% of the CIF price, or the existing duty, whichever is lower.
Purchase of off-the-shelf single items would follow standard Government
procurement procedures which are acceptable; the total amount of such pur-
chases would not exceed US$150,000. Contracts for construction of workshops
and buildings financed by the Bank (estimated to cost US$1.8 million) would
be awarded after local competitive bidding, since the relatively low cost
and scattered locations of these buildings make it unlikely that they would
attract international bids. Local competitive bidding procedures are satis-
factory. Consultants and professional staff to be financed out of the proceeds
of the proposed loan would have suitable qualifications and experience and
would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
73.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over a six-year period
on the basis of: (a) 65% of total costs of all road construction contracts,
rural access road construction and other force account costs; (b) 30% of total
costs of construction of workshops and other buildings; (c) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported vehicles, equipment and spares including workshop
tools and equipment; or 65% of local expenditures when purchased locally; and
(d) 100% of foreign cost of consultants and technical assistance.
74.       Retroactive financing of up to US$1.5 million is recommended for
expenditures incurred after September 1, 1978 to cover the costs of consultant
services, in particular for detailed engineering, and technical assistance
services so that priority projects can begin as soon as possible.
Project Benefits and Risks
75.       The project would support road development in Kenya, reduce vehicle
operating and road maintenance costs, help to determine an intermodal trans-
port coordination policy, and open up areas of the country for agricultural
development through new road construction. In particular, improved rural roads
would contribute to reducing transport costs of agricultural inputs and pro-
duce, and to providing social services in remote areas. The project would
also continue ongoing efforts to strengthen MOW and would support traffic law
enforcement and road safety. No overall economic rate of return has been cal-
culated for the Sector Plan although individual subprojects (including ongoing
subprojects) are estimated to yield returns ranging from 10% to more than 100%
(para. 62). The minimum return required of any subproject financed under the
project would be 12%.



- 22 -
76.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected in high-
way projects. If unforeseen financial or other problems should arise, how-
ever, implementation of the Sector Plan could be delayed. Financial problems
may arise because of increased construction costs, reductions in projected
Government expenditures because of a downturn in the economy, or a cutback
in the level of external financing, although the latter is unlikely. However,
the sector lending approach offers the opportunity for the Bank to review the
relative priorities of subprojects with the Government and adjust the work
program and, therefore, financing of subprojects to take account of changing
circumstances.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
78.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are given
in Section III of Annex III to this report.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 27, 1979



-  23-                                       A ThEX_ I
A -         SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCI GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
urn                                                    LA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            582.6                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHEB
AGRICULTURAL      99.2                                MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb     REGION Le  GROUP /d   GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       160.0    270.0            223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0    174.0             86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        8.3        11.2       14.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.3         9.9      13.0            13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KK.                       14.0        19.0      25.0            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     84.0       113.0    145.0             53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0 /      48.4      46.5            44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        49.2 /      48.0       50.9            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.8  <      3.6       2.6             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.1       3.5             2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              5.8         6.5       6.1             5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.5         49.0      48.7            46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.8        17.0      16.0            20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.4       3.3             3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          2.2        ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            101.0       100.0      83.2            94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  103.0        98.0      91.0            90.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          75.0        71.0      59.6            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIML AND PULSE        32.0        29.0      22.8            17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         1.9        ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.5        49.1      50.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0          ..    129.0            138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0      17.0            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..       100.0    100.0             66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                               *-         2.0       4.0            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0      55.0            23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..        85.0      98.0            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                               *-        45.0      48.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10840.OLh  7810.Lh  5800.0 /lh    21757.5    13432.7         9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2290.0h  1470.0a  1300.0 jaJb         3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            830.O0f     770.0    760.0 A          645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..            172.9      183.3      278.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..           1292.6    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..        ..             19.2       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.7       ..              4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..         4.7       ..              5.0        4.8
RURAL                                          4.7                       4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..
URBAN                              2.5f         ..       ..              ..         1.8        2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        8.7        10.3



- 24-                                       ANNEX I
TA - SOCIAL IDMICATs DATA SMM
InnERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVIERAGES
- MOST RUCENT ESTUSTE)
SAME       SAIE     NsT IIIGHE
IDST RECNT     GEOGRAPHIC   IN0lfE       INCtmE
1960 lb    1970 /b  STIMATE A       REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP L
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                47.0        64.0    109.0             52.1      62.9        75.8
FElALE              30.0        53.0    101.0             37.6       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 2.0 Li      9.0      13.0            8.0       14.4        17.7
FEMALE               2.0         5.0      10.0             5.0        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SZODNDARY) 12.0 Li     2.0       2.0             7.2       6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDMARY                          42.0        34.0      33.0           43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                        15.0        21.0     24.0            22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCZNT)        ..        30.0      40.0           20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUKPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        8.0         9.0      10.0            3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TIDUSAND
POPULATION                        9.0        48.0      40.0           40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         1.5       3.0             2.2       2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPUIATION                13.0        14.0       8.0             3.9       6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0         ..       ..              1.2        1.4        1.6
EWPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3300.0      5100.0 t 6100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 34.8        33.6      33.3            32.6      24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            85.8        90.0 $i  84.0 /a          73.3      60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                5.1         7.1       ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.2        40.6      39.2           42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                               54.5        53.8      52.3            54.8      53.3        50.3
FEMALE                             28.2        27.4      26.1           27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.1       1.1             1.2       1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        20.2                      25 ..  .7  20.3       19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..       52.6 Li    *-             55.1      45.1        48.9
LDWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEIOLDS    ..         3.9 W      ..            5.8         5.7        5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        11.7                       4 ..  .5  16.8       15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    122.0            108.8      88.5       155.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      93.0            74.1       71.9       97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    144.0            124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      78.0            59.6       42.0       87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATICI BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      25.0            26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      80.0            47.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
.L    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted Seomtric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mot populated country in eadc group. Coverage of countries aong the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwesn 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
end 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate. between 1973 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Low Income ($280 or lea  per capita, 1976);  /e Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);  7f  1962;  Lj Based on complete enumeration of non-African population,
and on a 10 percent sample of rural African population age 0-14, 15-59 & 60 years and over respectively;
/h  Registered, not all practicing in the country;  L/  1972;  Li Including teacher training at the
third level;  Lk  Labor force age 15-50 years;   /I Labor force age 15-50;  /e  staff estimete;
/n urban only.
September, 1978



- 25 -                                                                           ANNEX I
DEPINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nit: The adjusted group averages fur each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the mdi.tutor -d the nost
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and in not tuiforn                       Due Cto lock of data.
group averages for Capital Surpluo Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and emereta diupoeal, housing, income distribution and pore-ty ate
simple population-weighted geometric means without the eoclualon of extreme valuei.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population '- to..
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hespital h-c
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural  area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized huopital ted  en-
or permasently for crops, partures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation ceaters.  Hospitalo are establishments permanently staffed bt
lie fallow                                                                                at leant one physician.  EDtablishmentc  providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rurai hospItals, however, Include health and ted,-
GNP PER CAPITA (Uss) - GNP per capita estiantes at current market prices,                    caL centers not permanently utaffed by a phyoielan  (hut by a  edI  ac-
calculated by same conversion metbod as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 siotant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accL oedotian cith
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities
Admissione per hospital bed - Total number of adetsuions to ur dischar-ee
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consauoption of commercial energy                     from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal alsctricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average sie of household (persons per household) - total_ urban, atd rcral-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household censists of a group of individuals uh. share living quarter-
Total population  mid-year (mlllonu) - As of July 1: if not avuilable                       and their eati  meal.  A boarder or lodger say or nay not bh  i-cluded in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                             the household for statistical purposes.   Statitical definitions of huc.--
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tin; different definitioss of urban arass may affect comparability                     Average number of parsons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average cue-
of data song countries,                                                                   ber of persons per room in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dellings exclude son-pernancnt struttuorn au.d
Per  sq. k.a  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, uthatt, and rural -
Per sq. km. aariculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventlosal dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population ass structure (percent) - Children (0-li years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population   owth rste (percent) - total,  nd             - Cp d an                       Primary  chl - tt, and f le - Total and f                      r       t  f       ges
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as pnrcentages of respectively primary sctool-agr
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 ya.rs but adjunted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of prImary education; for countries with usiveonal edo-
mid-year popultLion; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enorllment say exceed 100 percent since some pupils are beluw or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                       oboe  the official school age.
Crude death cats (Per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-nd of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed an abo-o; uecondary  -duLa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary icstructicn; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                            sides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for puplls
Gross -eproductio  rate - Average numbee of doughter  a womas will beas                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; cor-espondence acouen are kenerally
in her normal reprod-ctive period if she esperiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually fice-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secosdary) - Voncticnal  -cstituticos  ic-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clode techbical, industrial., or othr programs which  ;,p-ftc  iodreodrntlv
FPily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of u.eondary institutins.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national f-aily                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total  tuadents enrol-id in
Planning progrm.                                                                         primary and aecondary levals divided by nunobru of c.achhra is the cor-e-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          spending levels
married comen of child-bearing age (15-44 ypars) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able cc read and write  us
devices to all married women in same age group,                                           a percentage of total adult popalati-o aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food Production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Pssener cars (er ltho nd p               n)  - Pausenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of a11 food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearsen and military
Per capita supple of calories (Percent of requisements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radit  receivers l(er thousand copulation) - Aol types of  -eceivers for radit
per day.  Available supplies comprtise domestic production, isports less               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; ec.lodes unlicenoed
exports, and changes in stuck.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years vhen registratiun of radio sets wan in
qaantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.   Re-                  effect; data for recent years  -ay net be comparable since moot countries
qutireents were estimated by PAO bha.d on physlolgcgisl needs for nor-                 abolished licenuing.
nsl activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand peculation) - TV receivers for brhadcust to  g-enra
weights, age and ..x distributions of population, and allowing 10 par-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receoers inocoun-
onet for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years when regiutrti-on of IV  ses was in  ffect.
Per capita supply of pootin (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average ci-oola-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tins of "daily general interest sevspaper", defined a- a periodical p'bli-
above.   Reqotreseta for all countries astcblihad by USDA provide for                    onnion devoted primarily to recoerd-g gecees1 nes.  It in  -nid-red 0
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of tota1 protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least foot times a we..k
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annu   attesndance per capito per sear - Based on tI e .uchee of t_kets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissio-s to drlef-in oci-aas and   Pbile
23 grams of animal protein am an aver-ge for the aorld, proposed by                       units.
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita Protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in gram per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Ec.nonical:y ac-tve portson, Licludirg attt
Child (seas 1-h) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoun-                   forces and unemployed but e-cluding hou-wive-, std-nts., etc.  Elfini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tioo   in variou s coun.ctries  are nor comparable
Fml(percent) - Female laker forc  as p.,ertocag   if total la-bor fort..
*HEALTh                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farmiud, forestry, hooting and fishieg
Life espectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total laber force.
remaining at birth; usually five-yesr averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industr  (percent) - Labor force in mining, ounstruction, manufacturIng and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor forn.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Tocai, naTo, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                 Iemale labor force as percentages of thoir rospecti-e pcctlico
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are ILO's adjusted participation rates refloctiot  acrert
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                      structure of the poyPtlltion.  nd loyn time trend.
safe wartr aupply (in-ludes treated surface waters or untrested but                    Ec-noetc decendeer  ratio - Ratio of population ceder 15 Or,- and coot to
unrootaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in ago group of 15-6  vears.
and sittary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In ansrtan area a public fountais or standpost located not more                      INCOE EDISTRIBUTION
th-n 200 meters from a house may be cu0pidered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) rece- ved ny  rieast
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, psooeuc 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the hou-es.fe or members of the household do not have to                       of households.
spend a disproportiumate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acceas to excrete disPonal (percent of populatiun) - total,                              Estimated aabsoite seventy intmee level  -uS$ per topic utl   roa _ ar.-
rural - Number of people (total, urban, sod rural) served by escrata                        Absolute poverty incoce level is that Income level below  li h a nieto,,
disposal as percentages of their rempectivtpopulations.   Excreta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential cue-food reoafrf,ontu in ec:
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by watir-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty income level (iSS pee capita) - urban and ral
or the use of pit privies and similar imstallationa.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than ore-tilrd
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
pbysiciax.  qualifiad from  a medical school at university level,                      itimated population below poverty income level (percenc,_ban  and rucl -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) she are eit-ec "ubholuct  pocr' or
practicing male and female graduste nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assis tome nurens
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projetiuns Departrent



- 26
Zaconc OtD.lot lata cAht
197   19 3                                  -           A 1 8  n.r            Pr i ~~ d     _ __I__1__77_
9=72                             1977419                                    197         1          19832      199    1                 7              9r
A.  NatioalI Accounts
(Million US0$ t 1976 price.)
1.  GDP                                 2883.5   3084.5    3216.4    3237.2    3415.5    3680.8    3847.8    4020.7    4222.2    4955.4    7440.2                  4.3         5.5          6.0           100.0
2.  Gaits from TT                        +85.9    +53.3       -31.3    -105.7         -        255.7      +26.8      -39.2      -96.3    -128.6    -124.3           -           -                            6.9
3.  COY                                 2969.4   3137.8    3185.1    3131.5    3415.5    3936.5    3874.7    3981.3    4125.9    4026.8    7316.0                  3.6         5.1          6.1           106.9
4.  Inports                             1205.7   1192.8    1440.5    1145.4    1127.6    1295.1    1438.8    1361.6    1434.0    1544.7    2212.1                 -1.7         4.6           5,3           35.2
5.  Exports - Volume                     962.8   1053.5    1246.5    1084.0    1142.4    1164.2    1194.5    1203.6    1302.3    1518.8    2204.7                  3.8         4,1          5.5             32.2
6.  Exporto - TT adjusted               1068.7   1106.8    1215.2        978.3    1142.4    1440.0    1221.3    1164.4    1205.8    1390.1    2080.5               1.7         2.8          S.9            39.1
7.  Reoo.r. e Gap - Tf adjusted          137.0      86.0      225.3      167.1      -14.8    -144.9       217.3      197.3      228.2      154.6      131.7               -            -                  - 3.9
S.  T-isi Consv.,pton                   2337.8   2525.0    2438.1    2639.8    2687.1    2933.9          3123.5    3170.8    3302.0    3834.5    5833.5            3.5         5.2          6.2            79,7
9.  Ieveet-est                           768.6    698.8       972.3      658.8      713.7      857.8      968.4    1907.9    1051.8    1146.7    1614.2           -1.8         7.0          5.             23.3
10.  Notional Savings                     638.5    496.6       597.8      429.3      630.3      912.4      619.0      709.7      737.8      889.1    1399.0         0.3         5.0          6.7            24.8
11.  D-eetic S-vig9n                      631.6    612.8       747.0      491.7      728.5    1002.6       751.1      810.7      823.7      992.2    1482.5         3.6         4.5          3.9            27.2
12.  GDP at correct us$                  2019.9   2368.1    2847.9    3151.4    3413.5    4427.8    5507.9    6273.2    7048.7   10134.7   21821.0                 14.0        16.8         11.6              -       -
B.  Sector GutPt
(Share of GDP at the 1976 prices)
1.  Manufacturing Indootry                10.8      11.4       12.0       11.9       13.3       14.1       14.9       15.4       15.4       15.9       20.1        9.4         8.2          9.6
2.  Agricoltore                           36.8      36.1       35.3       35.1       33.9       34.4       31.7       31.7       31.6       30.9       28.4        1.0         4.0          4.7
3.  other                                 52.4      52.5       52.7       53.0       52.8       51.5       53.4       52.9       53.0        3.2       51.5        4.1         4.7          5. 5
C.  Prices
1.  Export Price Inden                    57.0      66.3       80.3       88.9      100.0      132.6      125.1      126.7      129.4      151.4      222.4      15.0          6.1          5.6
2.  Iepert Inden                          52.4      63.1       82.4       98.5      100.0      199.8      122.4      131.0      139.8      165.5      235.7      17.5          7.5          5.2
3.  Tense of Trade                       108.8    105.1        97.5       90.3      100.0      121.5      102.2       96.7       926       91.5       94.4         -           -
4.  GDP Deflator (US$)                    70.1      76.8       88.5       97.3      100.0      120.3      143.1      156.0      166.9      204.5      293.3       9.3         10.8          5.3
5.  Aver-ge Excabnge Sate
(US0/KIt)                         2.800    2.857       2.800      2.700      2.390      2.416     2.591
D.  Selected Indicators                           1965-70-  1972-76   1976-83   1983-90
1.  ICOt                                             3.0         4.4       4.5        3.9
2.  7cport Elesticity                                1.0        -0.4       0.8        0.9
3.  AveragO Donustic SavIngs Sate                   19.0        20.3      20.9       21.0
4.  Average NationlI SavIngs Sate                   18.6        18.4      19.0       19.7
5.  Merninal Natio-el Savings Sate                   0.22       -0.02      0.09       0.22
6.  Inperts/GDP                                     29.8        38.7      33.7       30.3
I,vest eet/GSS                                  20.3        24.1     23.9       23.3
a.  Resource GapCGDY                                 0.7          3.9      3.0        1.9
A.- A,nual
Gr . gelts
E.   Erplcvnr.t                                     1970       1975       1976       1977          1970-77
1.  Labor Force Total                                ..      6.400,000
2.  Wage Enpliy-ret                                644,500    819,100  857,500   902,900             4.9%
F.  Pablic Finance                                                                                                                     Preo
(K1  Million)                                1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
1,  Recureent R,evenes                             124.0       141.6       149.0       190.4       226.3       269.2       311.1       474.6
2.   Rcarrent Expenditures                         110.4       128.7       139.6       162.7       207.4       246.8       285.1       431.1
3.  R.carent Surplus                               +13.5       +12.9        +9.4       +27.7       +18.9       +22.4       +29.0       +43.5
4.  D-volop_ent Project
Galroinga 4 Other
Mi.c.lsnecoe Receipts                           0.4         0.4         0.6         0.3         -           -           6.4         2.0
5.  Fere-ig  Gr-nts                                  0.8         1.8         0.5         3.2          8.2         7.0       10.5        17.2
6.  Ssrplus Avoilsle for
Foancing Dev-lop.eet
Expenditarre                                    14.7        15.1        10.5        31.5        27.4        29.4        45.9        62.7
7.  Developuent Expenditores                        46.5        51.9        61.8        67.4        94.2       126.3       124.7       236.0
8.  Overall Defieit                                -31.7       -36.8       -51.3       -35.9       -66.8       -96.9       -78.8      -174.1
9.  FinancinBg  f the Deficit
External Leans                                10.9        11.5       24.7         14.5       20.1        43.7         29.8       50.0
Desetic
Long-tens Borrowing                            8.1        15.6        21.3        16.8        15.5       52.8         25.0       90.0
Short-lens Be.r.nelg                          15.0         1           6.8         2.9        12.7        32.5        29.7         5.5
Greetc                                         0.03        0.02        0.02         -           -           _
Chueget iG Cash Beis.ces
(Iorease -)                                     -2.4       -8.5        +1.5        +5.6       +'8.4       -32.0        -5.8       +28.6
1/ Based on 1964 prices.                                                                                                    KA0N, CP7A
March 1, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
KENYA
Balance of Payments and Entercal Assistance
(Million US$)
Actual                                        Preliminary             Projection
1972       1973        197o        1975        1976       19 77        1978        1979        1980         1983        1990
A.  Summary of Balance of PFavncts
1.  Exports (In.l. NFS)                             560.0       698;6      1005.5        963.6      1142.4      1569.7    1511.1       1541.3       1703.5      2325.1      4956.1
2.  Imports (Incl. NFS)                             632.0       752.6      1237.3       1128.3      1127.8      1412.4    1780.2       1802.5       2025.8      2583.7      5269.8
3.  Resource Balance                                -72.0       -54.0      -231.8      -164.7         14.6       157.3    -269.1       -261.2      -322.3       -258.5      -313.8
4.  Net Factor Service  [ahose                      -34.1      -101.9      -101.1       -11[.8      -130.4      -170.3    -229.0       -237.2       -251.4      -331.7       -584.2
4.1 Net Interest Payconts of wI-1,-                 -15.7       -16.5       -18.6        -21.4       -27.1       -30.7      -22.6        -49.8       -72.3      -144.6       -249.4
(Interest on Public M h 7.1 l    nd           (-25.9)    (-27.1)    (-30.9)    (-32.1)    (-38.1)    (-39.5)   (-47.2)    (-68.5)    (-91.1)   (-168.3)   (-304.3)
4.2 Direct Invas     ucL-   rococo   (WNet)    )
4.3 Workers ReniLttlc.  (Not)              )        -18.4       -85.4       -82.5        -90.4      -103.3      -139.6    -206:4        -187.4      -179.1      -187.1      -334.8
4.4 Other factor Scrnice Lfoco....o (NeL)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                          38.1        22.2         19.3        50.0        32.3        71.3        72.2       109.6       136.4       167.1        393.1
6.  Balance on Mcrre-t A-coun.t                     -68.0      -11317      -313.6       -226.5       -83.4        58.2    -425.8       -388.7       -437.3      -423.1      -504.9
7.  Private Dir-t I.v..tmeot                         42:8        89 4       116.5         39.7        55.2        74.4       85.1         90.2       103.1       163.4        318.4
8.  Capital Crnt.s                                   44.4         8.3         22.9        30.6        40.3        40.0         6.0        16.8        27.0        57.3        134.9
Public M & LT Loans.
9.  Disbursecn.ts 1/                                 79.2        86.4        92.8        119.7       188.0       180.8      360.6        484.3       546.7       578.0        945.5
10.  Amortization 1/                                 -13.7       -15.9       -18.3        -16.0       -30.9       -43.1    -206.4        -198.8      -202.2      -341.6       -554.4
11.  Net Disbursca-t 11                               65.5        70.5         74.5       103.7       157.1       137.7      154.2        285.5       344.5       236.4        391.1
12.  Use of IMF R--so-ccos                             0.0        -0.6         53.5        51.6        18.9        43.7         -           -           -            -           -
13.  Short-tern t.pital Transactions                   5.6         15.1        31.1        31.1        17.4         7.7         -
14.  Capital TrannacLioss.  -.0.i.                   -65.1       -17.6       -14.6        -24.3      -101.3       -45.7         -           -           -            -           -
15.  Change in a-erces (-   increase)                -25.2       -11.4        29.7         -5.9      -104.2      -228.6      180.5         -3.7       -37.3       -34.1      -339.4
B. Grants and Loans Cfa-tiLcents
1.  Official Grantts 2/                              44.4         8.3        22.9         30.6        40.3        40.0
2.  Public M & I.T Loans                            101.0        98.1       170.1        396.0       211.9       321.2
2.1 1BRD                                             29.0        14.0         10.4       193.5        31.0        84.0
2.2 IDA                                              28.0           -         33.5        25.5        14.0        36.0
2.3 Maitit teral                                       -           1.1         3.6         7.2        10.8        39.3
2.4 Govermcents                                      24.4        6l.4        122.6        74.4        35.3        61.3
of which  contrally pla nced aeca..ies           -          17.3        -           -            -           -
2.5 Suppliers                                         2.3         -            -           4.0        56.5          -
2.6 Financial 1-titutiao                             17.3          I.e         -          91.4        64.4       100.7
2.7 Bonds                                                    -           -                 -           -            -
2.8 Public Loans, n.e.i.                                          -            -           -           -
3.  Other M & LT Loans (sOe-e available) 3/          33.0        21.2          6.9         3.6         7.5          -
C. MNonrandam Itnos
1.  Grant Element of fatal Cameitmonts 4/            44.8        43.4        66.5         23.0        23.0        36.5
2.  Average Interest (Percent)                        4.3         4.3          2.1         6.9         6.4         5.2
3.  Average Matrity (Years)                          29.2        27.4        36.7         24.6        17.5        25.6
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1978-1990) on mediun/hard blend terms.
2t Ecxludes Technical Assintance grants.
3/  Represents a notional 50% of loan co-mitments for EAC pro acts.
4/ Represents grant elonoot of loans.
EAN, CPIA
lMarch 1, 1979



- 28 -
KENYA                                                ANNEX 1
Q3nbt.-and Creditworthiness
1972      197         1974        1975       1976        1977
A. Medium and Long-term nebt (IDigbursed fly)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)              475.1     549.8       633.2       694.5       820.9      970.5
2.  Including lUndisbursed                                   709.2     820.2       990.6      1289.8      1445.2      1765.5
3.  Public Debt Service                                       33.8       38.9       44.6        43.8        63.2        72.5
3.1 Interest                                                  20.2       22.1       25.0        26.2        30.7        38.8
4.  Other M & U.t Debt Service                                 ..         ..          ..
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Servicc Ratio                                         6.0        5.6        4.4         4.5         5.5        4.6
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                           1.7        1.6         1.6        1.4         1.9         1.6
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                     8.1        7.9         7.5        6.0         8.2         7.3
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                            4.3        4.0         3.9        3.8         4.0         4.0
2.  Toral Debt Service/Total DOD                               7.1        7.1         7.0        6.3         8.2         ;.5
D. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                   12.5       11.5        7.5        10.6        16.7        1z.6
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                          10.4        9.4         6.0        9.2        13.9        10.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gro6s Disbursements                          82.7       81.6       80.3        86.6        83.6        76.2
E.  Eposlure
l.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements              39.9       49.1        33.0       63.4        45.2        24.9
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements        48.5       70.7       48.9        70.5        53.0        35.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        19.1       23.6       24.9        33.4        37.9        35.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                  30.9       38.2        39.9       48.3        52.0        49.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      21.6       28.7        27.2       34.5        46.7        48.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                23.1       30.6       28.6        36.4        48.4        50.1
Outstanding Dec.  31, 1977
t                Percent
(us$ Million)
F.  External Debt  Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                 201.8              24.6
2.  Bank Group                                                           313.7              38.2
3.  Other Multilateral                                                    20.8               2.5
4.  Governments                                                          329.0              40.1
of which centrally planied economies                                 0.1
5.  Suppliers                                                             29.2               3.6
6.  Financial Institutions                                                84.6              10.3
7.  Bonds                                                                 44.1               5.4
8.  Public Debt. n.e.i.                                                    -                  -
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt                                             821.4             100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 2/                                                 149.1              18.2
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                               1602.0             195.0
12.  Total M &  T Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                               1751.1             213.2
1/ Includes Kenya's share ot a notional 5u percent o0  SAC debt.
2/ Represents a notional 50 percent share of loans to the LAC.
EAN. CPIA
March 1, 1979



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of February 28, 1979
.US$ Million
A !?unt (Less C t cellations)
urea_t_ J   Year  Borrower   Purpose                            Bank-   TW    IDA-' Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed         96.0           74.1
224       1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                  12.6        1.8
826       1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                    29.0                       0.6
932       1973  Kenya       Highways                           29.0                       5.6
946       1973  IDB         DFC I                               5.0                       0.6
468       1974  Kenya       Population                                        12.0        1.5
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                         21.5       17.9
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                      10.4                       4.2
1093       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                   7.5                       7.5
537       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                  7.5        4.7
1105       1975  Kenya        Site and Service                   8.0                       8.0
543       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                   8.0        1.0
565       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                            10.0        3.1
1132       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry             10.0                       6.2
1133       1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline          20.0                       0.3
1147       1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development          63.0                       8.6
1148       1975  IDB         DFC II                             10.0                       2.7
1167       1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                         17.9
1184       1975  Kenya       Education III                      10.0                       8.9
650       1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                      10.0        8.9
1303-T     1976  Kenya        Integrated Agri. Development               10.0             10.0
1304-T     1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                        17.0             14.5
651       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                 4.0        4.0
1305       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.0                       4.0
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                      22.1
692       1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                           20.0       15.5
1390-T     1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                      5.0              5.0
1438       1977  IDB         DFC III                            20.0                      17.8
722       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                         6.0        5.4
1449       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.0                      34.0
750       1977  Kenya        Small Scale Industry                             1C.%       10.0
1520       1978  NCC          Second Nairobi Water Supply       30.0                      30.0
791       1978  Kenya        Second Urban                                     2_.0       25.0
1550       1978  Kenya        Second Urban                      25.0                      25.0
797       1978  Kenya       Education IV                                      23.'       23.0
S-12 3/    1978  KPC          Olkaria Engineering Loan           9.0                       9.0
1636 3/    1978  Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation              72.0                      72.0
1637 3/    1978  Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.0                      20.0
858 3/    1978  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development    _               13.0       13.0
Total                            568.4    32.0 256.7       469.3
of which has been repaid         19.2       -    1.0
Total now outstanding            549.2    32.0 255.7
Amount sold                 11.8
of which has been
repaid                      8.9   2.9
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/          546.3    32.0 255.7
TOTAL undisbursed                          305.0    29.5 134.8       469.3
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2!   Includes US$3.8 million undisbursed grant participation.
3j   Not yet effective.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of February 28, 1979
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1l    Undisbursed
     US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           0.8
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           3.0
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5           1.1
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           5.4
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0             7.8
Total                                          244.8          18.1
of which has been repaid                      49.4
Total now outstanding                          195.4
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      195.4
Total undisbursed                               18.1          18.1
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
C. Proiects ini Execution I/
(As of February 28, 1979)
There are currently 30 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23. 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. The response to the fertilizer credit scheme
financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC - the cofinancing
partner) for 1978/79 is slightly better than for the 1976/77 season. Yields
continue to rise, and from 1979/80 onward the appraisal projections are likely
to be exceeded. The project factory building program is behind schedule and,
due to cost escalations, funds will ornly enable 12 factories to be built
instead of 17 as originally envisaged. The OPEC Special Fund has recently
agreed to finance 3 factories under the project, and other sources of funds
to finance construction of the remaining 2 factories under the project are
being explored. CDC has advanced financing for their Fourth Plan, and by
December 1979 a total of 15 factories (12 under the project and 3 others) will
be operative. The standard of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management
continues to be high, and although the Marketing Department problems are not
yet resolved they are under control. Disbursements are behind schedule due
to the delayed factory building program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been problems
in organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of the project
was undertaken in March 1976; the review mission's report was presented to the
Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been held since
that date. The project had been adversely affected by the Government's
failure to raise certain cattle and beef prices to adequate incentive levels
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
but a new and satisfactory livestock price structure was adopted in early
1978, removing the most serious constraint to ranch development and viability.
Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists in the range
development components, and Government services in ranch water development
planning and in the company ranch sector have been improved. However, prob-
lems continue in that (a) the poor financial situation of many Phase I and
Phase II company ranches continues (although currently under review and
replanning); (b) an effective extension service in the Masai group ranch
areas, which is essential if the project's objectives are to be achieved, is
still not developed adequately; (c) currently high prices have to be paid for
immature steers (which are necessary to enable generation of cash flow) due
to a temporary situation of high demand coupled with an unwillingness by
pastoralists to sell due to good pasture conditions. The project will con-
tinue to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Credit and US$7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past year for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. This slow progress of farm rehabilitation and
the recommendations of the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the
Project) have prompted Government to make a major review of its policies
towards the Large Farm Sector. Although delays in reaching consensus on a
new policy have been encountered, Government expects to take a position on
the large farm sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government
policy, the Bank and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to
see whether the original project objectives can still be attained.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$10.0 million Credit and US$10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 20% below target, for a variety of reasons includ-
ing unfavorable weather. The building and road construction programs are both
considerably behind schedule. However, the backlogs may be made good during
the last two years of the project. Progress has been very slow in implement-
ing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement, particularly regarding the
program to improve efficiency and production of the sawmilling sector, the
national land use study, the gazetting of nature reserves and new forest
reserves, and the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs. Government is now
providing adequate budgetary allocations, and procurement is proceeding
normally. The general implementation situation shows signs of improvement.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the project objective of improving the produc-
tivity and incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. The rates of
credit recovery and loanee reparticipation thus far have been disappointing.
However, in recognition of the financial consequences of unrecovered credit,
cooperative unions have been reducing the numbers of loanees they are prepared
to finance. Consequently the balance between numbers of loanees and infra-
structural support--staff, storage and transport--at union level has been
improving. Active efforts are now being made to expand and implement the
infrastructure components, including improvement of input supplies and market-
ing systems. Some adjustment to the administrative framework is required,
and discussions on this subject are ongoing.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing_Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural implementation proceeds satisfactorily with only minor
problems. Cane yields are higher than anticipated, probably because of excel-
lent and well-distributed rainfall during 1977 and the first half of 1978.
Building works were delayed due to shortage of cement, but the position has
improved and the factory should be completed on schedule in October 1979.
Recruitment of staff is underway, and training and research programs are under
preparation. A recent Government decision not to increase sugar prices in
1978 was reviewed with the Bank, and agreement was reached that the current
price levels were adequate to provide the necessary incentives to growers.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$20.0 million Credit and US$5.0 million Loan of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Since mid-1978, the project's disbursements have been delayed due
to problems of (i) backlog at Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) in up-
dating loan reimbursement requests, and (ii) lack of consolidated information
on AFC's lending trends toward different categories of farmers. AFC is taking
steps to resolve these matters. The current arrears situation - while still
uncertain because of temporary statistical and accounting problems in AFC -
appears to be deteriorating. To bolster this situation, AFC is recruiting
additional qualified loan officers.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been delayed, predominantly because of
late appointment of consultants. As a result of these delays, some components
are as much as a year behind schedule. Revised cost estimates indicate that
the project is likely to encounter serious cost overruns.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This loan is not yet effective.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delays by the various Committees in approving
sketch designs for the 17 primary teacher colleges. The Government's
reluctance to finance technical assistance specialists from the loan
proceeds may further delay project implementation. The sessional paper
on the report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities which was tabled in Parliament in May 1978 is expected to
be discussed in a full Cabinet meeting in the near future. No major changes
in the document are expected. The delays in approving sketch designs are
expected to be overcome and the dialogue with the Government regarding the
hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project Unit Staff are benefitting from experience gained in
implementing the Third Education Project. Consultant architects have been
appointed for the Faculty of Agriculture and the thirteen Nomadic Primary
Schools, and architects' briefs for the schools are in an early stage of
preparation. Planning for the Primary School Curriculum Review and imple-
mentation of technical assistance for the Faculty of Agriculture and the Kenya
Institute of Administration has started.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months late. Delays were due mainly to weak project
administration by the Ministry of Water Development, particularly in the
early stages. Progress has now improved to an acceptable pace although lost
time cannot be recovered. Disbursements have recently improved to about 75%
of the appraisal forecasts. There is an estimated cost overrun of about 20%
(expressed in US dollars) to be covered from Government resources. Institu-
tion building is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in recruiting staff.
Steps are underway to audit the accounts of the Coast Province Water Branch
for the first time. Tariff measures taken by the Government have been
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule and is proceeding satisfactorily.
However, completion is now expected to be about four months behind schedule
due to difficulties with tender evaluations and delays by the Borrower
(Nairobi City Council) in making contract award decisions. Most supply con-
tracts financed by other donors and the first construction contract being
financed by the Bank have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Delays in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision could constrain future
progress. Bid prices to date have been favorable and the present estimate of
total project cost is very close to the appraisal estimate. Although water
supply and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants regarding external audits,
the engagement of an accounting consultant and the constraint on use of
water and sewerage revenues for other purposes.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan is not yet effective. Some key project staff have already
been appointed, and recruitment efforts are underway to fill the remaining
posts. Consultants have been selected to assist with implementation of mea-
sures to strengthen the Ministry of Water Development, and the terms and con-
ditions of their employment are being finalized.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 30, 1979
The project was substantially completed in early 1977, about a year
and a half behind schedule. The delay was primarily caused by a slow start
in construction of the regional workshops and camps due to unforeseen diffi-
culties in the location of sites, acquisition of land, and procurement of
steel. The Credit included US$2.2 million for headquarters and field staff-
ing and consultant services, but Government obtained most of these services
through bilateral arrangements. There was consequently a saving of US$1.8
million under the project, which the Government requested be used to purchase
additional workshop equipment and tools. Since this would assist in achiev-
ing the project's goals, IDA authorized using the remaining funds for this
purpose. With this revision, total project costs are expected to be as
appraised. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 30, 1979 to allow
sufficient time for completion of procurement.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is almost 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.
Establishment of a commercial acccunting system is now underway. The remain-
ing principal problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for
operation and maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide
shortage of skilled personnel. A training program has been prepared by UNDP,
but its execution depends greatly on the effectiveness of recruitment efforts.
The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1979 to allow time for
completion of disbursements for the training program. The project completion
report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: US$29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation started eighteen months behind schedule due to changes
in design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. In
view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the construction of two roads were
delayed. Agreement has now been reached to delete the Thuchi-Nbuku (51 km)
road from the project. The Closing Date, which was postponed from December
31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, is likely to be postponed further to allow time
for completion of construction of the Kisii-Mogonga road which has recently
gone out to tender; construction should begin in mid-1979.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. The Closing Date has been postponed to
September 30, 1979 to allow time for completion of disbursements.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is about eighteen months behind schedule, due to delays
in recruitment of staff and procurement of tools, although costs are not
expected to increase. Economic evaluations for the eight districts in which
Bank-financed units would be set up have been reviewed and approved by the
Bank; six construction units are now operating, and start up of the remaining
two units is expected shortly.   Through December 1978, 251 km of access roads
had been constructed. Labor intensive construction methods are being success-
fully applied and output and costs are in line with appraisal targets.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. Over 95% of construction work
has been completed, 82 out of 87 vehicles have been delivered, and 70% of the
furniture and equipment supplied. The Nursing Activities Study and the first
phase of the Study of Fertility Determinants have been completed, and the
program advisor has completed his work. The program components financed by
other donors and the Government are also moving ahead and are expected to be
completed on schedule. A postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1979
has been approved to permit completion of construction and procurement.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. Consultants' studies on possible
alternatives for future development and a long-term power development plan
are being reviewed by the Government and the Bank.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1. 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This loan is not yet effective. Drilling is proceeding on schedule,
and specifications for the drill rig and accessories are now being prepared.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26. 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effective
on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind schedule.
This delay was due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a number of
projects previously approved. As at February 28, 1979, US$4.4 million of
this loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date has been postponed to
September 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975. The loan was fully committed in August 1978 and US$7.3 million had been
disbursed as at February 28, 1979.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.



_ J2 - 
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Two sub-projects
have been approved. As at February 28, 1979, US$5.7 million had been com-
mitted and US$2.2 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 milion
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Measures to increase Kenya Industrial Estates' (KIE) capital have
been finalized. Key project staff have been recruited, but KIE's financial
staff requires further strengthening. KIE's guidelines for appraisal of sub-
projects are now being revised to reflect IDA's comments. The first subloan
has been approved.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Credit and US$8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and tender-
ing is underway for construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300
plots. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now opera-
tional, but all other community facilities are behind schedule. Two markets
have been tendered, and tender documents for the remaining four markets, two
community centers and a sports complex are ready for tendering. One health
center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse
against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the
Bank. The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval
soon. Technical assistance components are completed or scheduled for comple-
tion in conjunction with the project. Project costs remain close to appraisal
estimates although minor cost overruns are foreseen for the remaining compo-
nents of the project.
Credit No. 791-KE/Loan No. 1550-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of the project is generally satisfactory.
Consultants for detailed design and engineering of Phase I sites in all three
cities are making good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II
sites is substantially accomplished and design work should begin shortly.
The Housing Development Departments are operational in all three cities
(Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) with most of the key posts filled in Mombasa



- 40 -                        ANNEX II
and Kisumu. Recruitment of other staff is underway. Progress in meeting
disbursement conditions is slow, and progress on studies included in the
project is also slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been
delayed pending Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating. Officers
for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and CIDA has approved fund-
ing for six key Wildlife Planning Unit positions. Personnel are expected to begin
work in these positions in March. The Ministry of Works has appointed various
consultants for the design and construction of all physical project components.
The draft final report of the Tourism Pricing Study is under review. Progress
on the Very Large Herbivores Study has been delayed, however, because of differences
which have developed between the consultant partners; the Government has requested
that the primary signatory firm on the contract prepare a revised proposal and a
revised slate of consultants. Satisfactory agreements have been reached with the
Amboseli ranchers on guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement
condition relating to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed
and deployed, and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft
amendments to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill
the requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Proiect: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness; December 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972: Date of Effectiveness: April 16. 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
1/   Since October 1, 1977,the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a ligherage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.2 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                           0.7
Tanzania                        0.6
Total                       1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                      0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
ClosinR Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be



- 42 -
ANNEX II
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
(US$ Million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of head-
quarters. At February 28, 1979, about US$27.1 million of the loan had been
disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ Million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976;
Closing Date - March 31, 1979
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$7.2 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
February 28, 1979
Fiscal Year        Obligor                Type of Business   Am.ount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                 5.2     0.7      5.9
1970, 1974                               /1
and 1977        Pan African Paper Mills-Pulp and Paper    13.1          6.3    19.4
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4        -     2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles            6.3      2.8      9.1
1977            Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market      2.0       -       2.0
Total Gross Commitments                    29.0      9.8    38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      8.8      1.8    10.6
Total Commitments now held by IFC          20.2      8.0    28.2
Total Undisbursed                           1.9      -       1.9
/1   Excludes loan of US$4.1 million approved on December 21, 1978 but not yet
signed. Signature of loan is expected to take place in March 1979.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    About 18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    Ministry of Works
(c)  First presentation to Bank:         January 1977
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:   August 1978
(e)  Completion of negotiations:         February 1979
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:         July 1979
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) Setting up of an inter-ministerial committee on road/rail
coordination by January 1, 1980 (para. 31).
(b) Carrying out a study of road user charges and axle load limits
by January 1, 1981, and submission to the Bank for comment of
a program for implementation of the study's recommendations
(para. 34).
(c) Completion of an inventory of maintenance equipment by June 30,
1980 and carrying out of a review of the funding system for
hiring of maintenance equipment by January 1, 1981 (para. 55).
(d) Establishing a pilot cost-accounting system by September 30,
1980 for maintenance activities in one province (para. 56).
(e) Meeting projected staffing and training requirements for MOW
based on programs to be agreed between the Government and the
Bank by September 30, 1979 (para. 57).
(f) Meeting physical completion targets for maintenance, strengthen-
ing, reconstruction and improvement of roads in various classes,
as well as recurrent budget targets for road maintenance and
operation of traffic police patrol bases and vehicle inspection
centers (para. 66).
(g) Improving the efficiency of the Mechanical and Transport
Department (para. 54).



IBRD13992
--'7                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KENiYA
S U D A N-1               /                                                     HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
K.,   w4,   ,  I a      'H . I    P I A
MANDERA      /
S/R/I                                                                                               lj /5
0i                                                          m ,b 0: E )I F -  ' .
rS    IThN   CA                           Mo,Io -z                              N.      7         i    'rr
E  A         E  R }  V 7iuich  A S        1E A    N
W."~~~~
-/TNT          TizAriNcr/-I - P  k              - \ OH
|   .s  .:  1 \ i NV  A  L t?L(/E  Y~  MI / \ ' /
p-Jt,;i,,S~ ~~~~~~                                               CO A1 T,,
~~~~~AMSUkb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~
:  .  t:  's1 C6ata57El 0 0 ; dR /AnIor/Mol w /'/ I// S.I//  'N            =                _<-__h V A fv O  CfA F
:    :    :   ':   7   K125>',  't 0 C,: i; i ND,C :FTOd5;-    -    AL  R.v I//MBA/A
Al=t 0 ,, 09 5Aa/I/I//Ia oI/fIAI//o.SI/eI/          T -                           I
;0 0; tt5A =Ci*> 0 0 0 li ' 9t:wrL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SK)tLrcrut't;-TI  JX     
E 7STERN                   r. 4igrs     Rfssif             w                            //<2
.., , hKk;BDsrdEUNGuws,t,tedeost:  :-%3O.MRs,_ A ftfCA,
= { = : ~~~~~rTSarr! i,< >t  ot
S  _L:. L ~~~~~~~~~~~NE : A       t*E              ir E 550E51\



