Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFF][CIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2276b-KE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 6, 1979
Highways Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution anid may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (KSh).
However, in accordance with the practice of the Kenya Government, most large
values are expressed in Kenya Pounds (Ks).
KG  1.00    =      K Sh 20
KS 1.00     =      US$2.67
US$1.00      =     KS 0.375
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kmE    =      0.62 miles (mi)         2
1 square 'km (km )   =     0.386 square miles (mi )
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB     -    African Development Bank
CIDA     -    Canadian Lnternational Development Agency
DANIDA   -    Danish International Development Agency
EDF      -    European Development Fund
EEC      -    European Economic Community
GCBP     -    Gravelling, Culverting and Bridging Program
KR       -    Kenya Railways
MEPCA    -    Ministry of Economic Planning and Community Affairs
MOW      -    Ministry of Works
MPC      -    Ministry of Power and Communications
MTD      -    Mechanica.L and Transport Department, MOW
NORAD    -    Norwegian Agency for International Development
ODM      -    Ministry tEor Overseas Development (UK)
RARP     -    Rural Access Roads Program
RD       -    Roads Department, MOW
SIDA     -    Swedish International Development Authority
STD      -    Staff Training Department, MOW
TRRL     -    Transport and Road Research Laboratory
USAID    -    United States Agency for International Development
vpd      -    vehicles per day
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Fiscal Year 1/
July 1 - June 30
1/   Unless otherwise specified, years refer to fiscal years.



FOR OFFICIAL LJSE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAIISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT  SECTOR  ..........                 ..............................             I
A.   Economic  Setting  ...... ................................   .......                    1
B.   The Transport  'System  .......................................                         1
C.   Transport  Policy,  Planning  and  Coordination  ............                           3
D.   Past Bank Group  Involvement  in  the Sector                        ..............      6
II.   THE HIGHWAY  SUBSECTOR  ....... ...... . . .. . . .  ............................... .        8
A.   Roads  and Road  Transport  ................................                            8
-    The Network  ......................................................               8
-   Traffic Growth and Characteristics                       ..................        9
-   Vehicle  RegtLlations  ..................................                         ILO
-  Road  Transport  ........I............................. *                         11
B.   Roads  Department  ....... ............                  ....................         12
-  Administration and Management  ............                  ..     .........     12
- Staffing ....... 13
- Training .o.. .                                        .         ..... ....   13
- Finance                            .........  14
-   Planning  ..............I ........................................               ].5
-   Engineering  ........................................... O..0 .......            ].6
-   ConstructionL .....................................................              ].6
-  Maintenance  ......................................................               ].7
C.   Mechanical  and Transport Department                                                  19...................  ]9
-   Administration  ............ .......................... .19
-   Staffing  and Training  ................................                         20
-    Finance  ........................................ o     ......... o......       20o
D. Rural Access Roads and Gravelling, Culverting and
Bridging  Programs  ............ ............1............... 
This report was prepared by M. Mason (Economist), B. Bjelogrlic (Engineer),
T. Watanatada (Engineer-Economist), and H. Goris (Economist) who appraised
the project in August/September 1978.. The report was edited by P. Brereton.
This document has a restricted dlistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its conterLts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                       Page No.
III.  HIGHWAY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN ............................   22
A.  Background        ................................ ... . ...... .    22
B.  Objectives    .................... .........................    22
C.  Description        ............................................   23
- Overall Scope and Costs of the Plan        .................   23
- Road Construction Program ................ . ...........    23
- Maintenance Program .............. ........ .......... .    27
- Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety Program .....     28
- Other Buildings and Equipment ............ . ...........   29
D.  Assessment ....  .............................. ...... .    29
- Institutional Capacity .................    e...* ......   29
- Financial Feasibility ......     .........................   32
- Economic Analysis .................. .. ...............    34
E.    The  Project                             ..............   36
-   Description        .........................................  36
- General Sector Conditions .....     ......................   37
- Conditions for Subprojects .....     .....................   38
-    Procurement   .. .............. ........................ ..  39
-  Implementation ......     ................................   40
- Disbursement .......      .................................    40
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................   40
ANNEXES
I - Past Bank Group-Financed Transport Projects in Kenya
II - The Road Maintenance Program
III - Economic Analysis of the Road Construction Program
IV - Progress Reporting Requirements
V - Supporting Tables and Charts
Tables
T-1   Road Network by Classification and Road Type, 1977
T-2   Vehicle Fleet, 1965-1976
T-3   STD Training Output, 1971-77; Training Program, 1978-82
T-4   Expenditure on Road Construction and Maintenance, 1970-78
T-5   Central Government Revenue from Road Vehicles, 1968-1976
T-6   Design Standards
T-7   Proposed Expenditures for Highway Development Plan, 1979-83
T-8   Overall Road Construction and Maintenance Targets, 1979-83
T-9   Details of Road Construction and Maintenance Program, 1979-83
T-lO  Rural Road Components in Major Agricultural Projects
T-ll  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Charts
C-i   Organization of the Ministry of Works
C-2   Implementation Schedule
VI - Related Documents and Data Available in Project File



-. iii -
MAPS
1.   Kenya - Highway Sector Project (IBRD 13992)
2.   Kenya - Highway Sector Project - Eastern Area (IBRD 14014)
3.   Kenya - Highway Sector Prc,ject - Central Area (IBRD 14013)
4.   Kenya - Highway Sector Prc,ject - Western Area (IBRD 14012)






REPUBiLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF AE'PRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01       The Republic of Kenya (Map 1) covers an area of some 583,000 kmi
about the same size as France. Although the country lies on the equator,
variations in altitude provide a wide range of climatic conditions. GDP grew
at 6.6% p.a. in real terns between 1964 and 1973, but has slowed down in
recent years following azcelerated worldwide inflation. GNP per capita was
US$270 in 1977. The economy is largely based on agriculture, which accounted
for an average of about 29% of GDP at constant prices during 1975-77, with
subsistence farming cont ributing nearly 50% of agricultural value added.
Since the late sixties, :ourism has been of growing importance and is now the
second largest earner of foreign exchange after coffee exports. The nuLmber of
tourists increased by mo -e than 14% p.a. between 1963 and 1973, although the
numbers have since stagnated because of the oil crisis and border problems
with Tanzania. Industrial production has also grown quite rapidly during the
1970s, increasing by 6.5%' p.a. from 1972 to 1977.
1.02       Kenya's rapid economic growth has caused tremendous demands t1o be
placed on the transport sector, especially during the intensive period of
development during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Increasing agricultural
production has particularly put demands on the transportation system, both
from the farm to local market, and l ocal market to internal and external
consumer centers. To address this need, nearly all agricultural development
projects have included large road improvement or construction components.
B. The Tr ansport System
1.03       The heaviest concentration of transport facilities, comprising road,
rail and air services, is along the 1,000 km corridor from Mombasa on the
coast, to the Ugandan border, via Nairobi. This is a densely populated area
of major economic importance, containing over half of Kenya's population. The
corridor is also a major transport route for goods to and from Uganda, Rwanda,
Burundi and parts of eastern Zaire. The transport network is gradually being
extended outside of the corridor, but the majority of such roads are still
either of poor gravel or earth standard. More than half the country, in the
north and east, is arid and sparsely populated and has few transport links.



-2-
Roads
1.04      Details of the 50,600 km road network are included in Chapter II.
Railways
1.05      The rail network covers about 2,100 km, comprising one main line
extending 1,095 km from the port of Mombasa via Nairobi to the Ugandan border,
where it links up with the Ugandan Railway, and 1,000 km of branch lines.
The network is now managed by Kenya Railways (KR), a parastatal entity, estab-
lished in early 1977 following the de facto breakup of the East African Rail-
ways Corporation. Completion of KR's financial accounts is in arrears, and
the latest information on the railway covers the first seven months of 1976.
During that period the railway earned Kb 14.5 million in revenues which
covered all working expenses and approximately 40% of estimated depreciation,
without interest. Plans to establish KR on a firm commercial basis are now
being made (para. 1.14).
1.06      Most long-distance bulk cargo between Mombasa and the Ugandan border
is transported by rail, although since the late sixties an increasing propor-
tion has gone by road (para. 1.13). Traffic carried in the Kenyan region of
the East African Railways was close to 3 million ton-km in 1973 and 1974, but
declined to nearly 2 million ton-km in 1975, mainly because of a downturn in
Kenya's economy and a sharp drop in Ugandan imports and exports. With im-
proved economic conditions in Kenya and to a lesser extent in Uganda, traffic
increased in 1976 to an estimated 2.3 million ton-km, and in 1978 traffic is
expected to return to the level of 1973 and 1974. Passenger traffic was esti-
mated at 1.3 million in 1976 and is forecast to reach 1.6 million by 1980.
Ports
1.07      Mombasa, Kenya's principal port, handles most of the country's im-
ports and exports as well as transit traffic for Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and
parts of eastern Zaire. The port's capacity is estimated at about 3 million
tons per year. Traffic reached a peak in 1973, when general cargo traffic
amounted to 2.5 million tons, but declined in 1975 and 1976 to about 1.8 mil-
lion tons, mainly because of lower Ugandan imports and exports. During 1977,
however, general cargo traffic increased to 2.0 million tons. Port manage-
ment is generally competent, and the port has been earning a net surplus after
depreciation and interest. A new Kenyan port organization was established
in 1977 to replace the East African Harbours Corporation, but management and
staff have remained relatively unchanged.
Civil Aviation
1.08      Nairobi is one of the principal aviation centers of Africa.  Inter-
national air transport services are provided to Nairobi by 28 airlines on
a scheduled basis, and 17 on a non-scheduled basis. Both Nairobi and Mombasa
have international airports, while scheduled domestic services are provided



- 3 -
to four other airports and several game parks. Until January 1977, one of
the principal international carriers serving Kenya was East African Airways,
the multi-nationally owned airline of the East African Community. With the
de facto breakup of the Community and East African Airways, a national air-
line, Kenya Airways, was established to take its place in providing domestic,
regional and international services. Kenya Airways currently flies to five
other African countries, Europe, Mauritius, the Seychelles, India arLd Jeddah.
Its fleet consists of three 707s, one 720B, one DC-9, and two Fokker Friend-
ship F-27s. The financial situation of Kenya Airways is as yet indeterminate.
1.09      Passenger traffic at Nairobi International Airport increased by 17%
from 1972 to 1977, when there were 1.3 million passengers. Air transport is
of major importance to the tourist industry since the majority of tourists
travel to Kenya by air, and many are transported within Kenya by chartered air
services. Air transport is also important for Kenya's rapidly expanding
export of perishable horticultural and farm products which go principally to
Europe. These exports increased from 1,476 tons in 1968 to 25,077 tons in
1977.
Oil Pipeline
1.10      The Government-owned Kenya Pipeline Company operates a 425 km
pipeline to transport white oil products from Mombasa to Nairobi. Construc-
tion was completed in Iate 1977, 3and the pipeline was in full operation in
early 1978.  About 1.3 million m  were transported in 1978, with annual
growth thereafter projected at about 4% p.a. Initial capacity of the pipeline
is about 2 million tons p.a., but this can be increased to 4 or 5 million tons
p.a. by increasing the number of pumping stations from four to eight.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
Transport Planning Ministries
1.11      Transport planning is divided among three ministries:  that for
highways is undertaken by the Ministry of Works (MOW) through the Planning
Unit of the Roads Department (RD); the Ministry of Power and Communications
(MPC) is responsible for planning of all other transport modes as well as
regulation of the road network and road transport industry; and coordination
of planning is under the aegis of the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Community Affairs (MEPCA). During 1975-78, RD's Planning Unit, with assis-
tance from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), carried out
a Highway Transport Study (para. 2.25) and prepared the initial draft of the
road investment program for the 1979-1983 Development Plan (para. 1.18). MPC,
which has a planning section staffed by two transport economists (of which
one is Bank-financed), is responsible for reviewing and approving the develop-
ment plans put forward by the various railways, harbors, civil aviation,
and civil pipeline corporations. Finally, MEPCA plays an important role in
helping to coordinate transport policies, providing guidelines for sectoral
development plans, and setting overall levels of investment for each of the
subsector plans.  Overall, transport planning suffers from insufficient co-
ordination of the three ministries; this problem should, however, be i'mproved
under the proposed project (para. 1.15).



-4-
Intermodal Coordination
1.12      Intermodal transport issues have not been receiving sufficient
attention since little could be done to improve investment and pricing poli-
cies when some of Kenya's transport modes were under the authority of the East
African Community. But now, with the establishment of national transport
authorities, the institution of a more effective national transport planning
policy is possible.
1.13      The Bank Group has been particularly concerned about the allocation
of resources between roads and railways, especially in the Mombasa-Ugandan
border corridor. During the 1960s most long-distance freight was transported
by rail, mainly because commercial road transport was subject to considerable
operational restrictions, primarily through licensing, which protected the
differential tariff of the railway. Since then, road transport regulation
has been relaxed and this, together with improved roads, has led to a
subsequent rise in long-distance haulage by increasingly larger trucks.
This growth in road transport has arisen despite Government's reform of
the railway tariff structure in the early seventies, following Bank
recommendations on the tariff system. Of the total 11 million tons of
haulage traffic handled in 1976, road transport accounted for 59% and the
railways for the remaining 41%. About 60 to 70% of road haulage traffic
is made up of local collection and distribution over short to medium
distances (less than 150 km), for which there is no good alternative to
road transport. Of the remaining 30 to 40%, the Highway Transport Study
(para. 1.11) estimated that at least bulk cargo (such as cement, cattle
cake, iron and steel, oil, tea, etc.) could more economically go by rail.
This would constitute about one million tons of goods or about 15% of
total goods hauled on the roads.                                           1
1.14      Some of the primary reasons underlying the preference for road over
rail transport are: (a) the limited capacity of the railways due to diffi-
culties experienced by the East African Railway Corporation during 1974-77
and the consequent postponing of investment and shortages of spare parts;
(b) managerial problems following the formation of KR; (c) lack of confidence
of some shippers concerning the reliability of railway services, which leads
them to pay the sometimes substantially higher trucking rates; and (d) inade-
quate advance planning by shippers which forces them to use road transport to
obtain goods on time. Although any improvement of this situation is expected
to take a good deal of time, attempts are now being made to relieve some of
these constraints. KR is receiving substantial bilateral assistance from
several donors, and new equipment is arriving at an increasing rate for an
extensive replacement program. In addition, the transfer of oil traffic from
rail to pipeline in early 1978 has freed rail capacity between Mombasa and
Nairobi for new traffic. KR is also considering further improving the tariff
structure in line with commercial considerations.
1.15      The problem of inadequate road/rail coordination, as well as the
need for improved insitutional arrangements for transport coordination,
will be addressed under the proposed project. As a general sector condition,
Government agreed to set up by January 1, 1980 an inter-ministerial committee



- 5 -
on road/rail coordination, including high level representatives of MOW, MPC, MEPCA
and KR, who will advise the. Government. on transport policy and formulate measures
to improve transport planning and coordination (para. 3.44 (a)).  This would be a
natural extension of the informal discussions now taking place between the
relevant ministries.  Efforts are being made to establish the committee by
May 1979. There is also a need for Government to undertake a study of road-
user charges, as well as axle-load linmits (para. 2.08), since road haulers,
especially those with heavy trucks, maty not be meeting the full cost of the
damage that their trucks inflict on the roads. Therefore, Government agreed,
as a general sector condition, to complete a road-user charges study by
January 1, 1981, and to sulmit a program for the implementation of its recom-
mendations to the Bank for its comment:s (para. 3.44(b)).  The study, to be
undertaken by consultants, will not only review road-user charges, but will
also determine whether road/rail pricing is competitive and propose alterna-
tive strategies of apportioning road-user charges in line with Government
objectives.
Previous and Planned_TLansport Investment
Second and Third National Development Plans
1.16       The Second Natioral Developnient Plan covered the period 1969/70-
1973/74; the Third Development Plan, covering 1973/74-1977/78, overlapped
the Second Plan by one year. Roads received greater emphasis in the trans-
port sector during the Second Plan period, and major airport, oil pipeline,
and railways projects received higher priority during the Third Plan period.
1.17       The Second Plan allocated 22% (KS 43 million) of total planned
development expenditure to highways, although actual expenditure rose to 31%
(K_ 81 million).  MOW was able to attract this amount of investment since! it
had responded rapidly to the need for developing Kenya's road network ancd sur-
passed other ministries in project preparation and implementation.  Emphasis
was principally on trunk arLd primary r oads. The Third Plan reduced the propor-
tion of funds for highway investments to 19% in favor of sectors like agricul-
ture and industry which dir ectly affect economic growth.  The emphasis on
trunk and primary roads was reduced, and investment was allocated to minor,
rural access and special purpose roads, which represented 85% of total length
to be constructed under the Plan.  Aft:er the oil crisis, Kenya was obliged to
further adjust its plan target downwards; highway outlays in real terms dropped
substantially in 1976, but increased again in 1978 when economic growth accel-
erated.  As a result, highway expenditure during the Third Plan represented
only about 16% (Kb 99 million) of total development expenditure, against the
planned 19% (Kb 87 million). In general, projects that were dropped or cle-
layed tended to be of rather low priority, with the exception of the Rural
Access Road and Gravelling Programs (paras. 2.43-2.46) which were delayecd
because of difficulties in obtaining sufficient external financing and various
start-up problems.



- 6 -
The Fourth National Development Plan
1.18      The Fourth National Development Plan, covering the period 1978/79-
1982/83, is in final draft form and should be approved by Parliament before
the end of April. Government's policy for this period is to continue the
emphasis on directly productive investment; hence, the share of development
highway outlays will remain at 16%. This, however, represents an increase of
about 25% in real terms over actual expenditure on road construction and
maintenance during the last Plan period. The Highway Sector Development Plan
for 1978/79-1982/83 proposes an allocation of Kb 182 million for trunk,
primary, secondary, minor and rural access roads and a further Kb 37 million
for other capital expenditure in the road sector (Chapter III). Details of
the remainder of the transport sector plan will be available on publication of
the National Development Plan.
D. Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.19      The Bank Group has been involved in Kenya's transport sector since
the country's independence in 1963. Loans and credits have been made amount-
ing to US$173 million for roads, an airport, and an oil pipeline; an addi-
tional US$166 million went toward development of railways and ports, although
only part of the railways and ports loans directly benefitted Kenya since they
were made to the East African Railways and Harbours Corporations (Annex I).
These projects have helped to meet the demand for transport from increasing
external as well as internal trade. Road projects have not only helped to
develop the trunk road network, but have also helped stimulate agricultural
development, particularly in sugar and tea-growing areas, as well as in
settlement areas. More recently (1976), the Bank Group has actively encour-
aged rural access road construction in Kenya, which emphasizes labor-intensive
techniques (Ln. 1305/ Cr. 651-KE). These roads are helping to stimulate
agricultural production at the smallholder level and to remove transportation
bottlenecks from the farm gate to the classified road network.
1.20      The Bank has made three loans (one including a small component for
ports), totalling US$104.4 million for the development of the railway under
the East African Railways Corporation. Two of the loans are fully disbursed
and the third will be fully disbursed in 1979. Another two loans, totalling
US$61.5 million, plus a small component of the joint railways and ports loan
mentioned above, went toward the development of Mombasa's port; these loans
should be fully disbursed in 1979. Recently the Bank has been involved in
the upgrading and expansion of Nairobi's International Airport under a US$29.0
million loan which is expected to be fully disbursed in 1979; the new
terminals were opened in March 1978. The Bank also provided a US$20 million
loan, 22% of total costs, for construction of the oil pipeline from Mombasa
to Nairobi. The project was completed in March 1978, and the loan should be
fully disbursed in 1979.
1.21      Since 1960, the Bank Group has lent US$124.2 million for road
projects, and major road components included in agricultural projects. Funds
have been provided for: (a) the construction of about 1,000 km of trunk roads



- 7 -
and 7,875 km of feeder, special purpose, agricultural and rural access roads;
(b) assistance for strengthening highway maintenance operations and enforcing
traffic regulations; and (c) technical assistance. Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPAR) have been completed for two of the road projects. PPAR No. 846,
issued in 1975, lealt with the Second Highway Project (Cr. 120-KE; US$10.7
million; 1968) which provided for the detailed engineering, construct-ion and
supervision of 460 fnm of trunk roads, construction of 10 bridges, detailed
engineering of 425 km of secondary and feeder roads, and technical assist-
ance. The PPAR concluded that road improvement and construction was satis-
factorily implemented with only minor problems. However, the project cost
was more than 23% above appraisal estimates because of increased quantities,
some necessary changes to design standards, and delays in implementatiorL
caused by the mobilization and organization problems of several contractors.
Construction works were completed in March 1972, about 18 months behind sched-
ule. Rates of return for all roads constructed under the project exceeded
12%; returns for four of the project roads were estimated in the PPAR to have
exceeded appraisal estimates and returns for six of the project roads were
lower than appraisal estimates, because of lower than projected traffic levels
on two of the roads and the increase in construction costs.
1.22      PPAR No. 2062, issued in 1978, reviewed the Third Highway Project
(Loan 639-KE; US$23.5 million; 1969) which included construction/reconstruc-
tion of 1,630 km of trunk, feeder, sugar, and settlement roads (see Annex I
for details), as well as an organizational study of MOW. The project en-
countered several problems which were to some extent the effects of trying to
carry out a large road building program while MOW was being reorganized and
was assuming responsibility for maintaining the entire classified network
under the Association's Road Maintenance Project (Cr. 224-KE) (para. 2.33).
Even so, from 1969 to 1974, MOW was able to construct a total of about 2,000
km of trunk and primary roads and 1,250 km of feeder roads. Construction
of project roads was completed in June 1975, about 18 months later than
originally scheduled, because of an over-optimistic implementation schedule
and unexpected design changes. Total. project costs were 50% higher than
appraisal estimates, mainly because of changes in design standards and in-
creased quantities. Although design standards on two of the feeder roads
had been raised by MOW without Bank approval, one of these roads proved
economically justified while the other was intended to form part of the Trans-
Africa Highway, the remaining segments of which are included under the Sector Plan.
Three of the four trunk rcads failed either wholly or in part because of inadequate
design standards and poor construction exacerbated by vehicle overloading and poor
maintenance during the contractor's maintenance period. The use of the
National Youth Service on the construction of settlement roads also resulted
in delays in implementation, but, as pointed out in the PPAR, valuable train-
ing was provided. The economic rates of return re-evaluated in the PPAR were
lower than estimated at appraisal on one of the four trunk road sections and
on 14 of the 18 feeder roads, because of substantial cost overruns.  Traffic
volumes, however, were higher than anticipated on two of the four trunk roads
and on ten of the feeder roads and lower than anticipated on only two of the
feeder roads. The PPAR, which was based on traffic data up to 1976, concluded



-8-
that one trunk road and seven feeder roads had rates of return below 10%;
however, with the sharp increase in traffic levels since 1976 (para. 2.07),
some of these roads may now be justified.
1.23      One of the major lessons gained from the two audited projects is
that road design standards have been too low, even for projected traffic
levels. This situation has been made worse by traffic volumes over and above
projected levels, as well as higher than projected axle loads. Consequently,
RD is now in the process of reviewing and increasing design standards where
necessary (para. 2.28), and measures have also been taken to control vehicle
overloading under the Fourth Highway Project. There is still a need, however,
to review the level at which axle-load limits should be set, since present
limits appear to be too low; this study will be carried out under the proposed
project (para. 2.08). It should be noted that all cost estimates for the
Highway Sector Development Plan have been based on higher design standards
and traffic projections derived from past trends.
1.24      The PPARs also indicated that implementation schedules have been
overoptimistic, especially the time allowed between completion of detailed
engineering and award of contracts. The Highway Sector Development Plan
has therefore allowed for a longer contracting time period. Finally, the
performance of the National Youth Service on road construction, which delayed
implementation under the Third Highway Project, has somewhat improved under
the Fifth Highway Project (Ln. 932-KE), and this improvement is expected to
continue.
1.25      Neither of the two audited projects focused on institution building,
although an organization study of MOW was undertaken by consultants (INBUCON,
UK) under the Third Highway Project. The recommendations of that study were
implemented with varying degrees of success under the Association's Highway
Maintenance Project (para. 2.33), for which a PPAR is now being prepared.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Roads and Road Transport
The Network
2.01      The total classified network increased by 8% from 46,660 km in 1972
to 50,600 km in 1978. Annex V, T-1 gives the road network by classification
and road type. Of the total, 4,330 km are bitumen roads, an estimated
16,000 km are gravel roads and about 30,000 km are earth roads. The network
consists of 10% international and national trunk roads, 16% primary, 68%
secondary and minor, and 6% special purpose roads (such as agricultural,
tourist and settlement roads). The classification of the network reflects the
projected economic role of the roads rather than their present function; many
classified as trunk or primary are low-standard earth or gravel roads having
low traffic volumes and serving as feeder roads. The network is unevenly
distributed throughout the country, although it has generally followed the
areas of economic development with a heavy concentration of roads along the
Mombasa-Ugandan border corridor.



- 9 -
2.02      A recent report on the paved road network (4,330 km) by the Mate-
rials Branch of RD estimated that 1,540 km of these roads are in poor or
critical condition; about half of these will need reconstructing, strengthen-
ing and/or drainage works during the next four years. Many of these roads
were not designed for the traffic now carried or are beyond their economic
life, inadequately maintained and considerably overloaded. The first priority
roads identified in the Materials Branch's report have all been included in
the proposed 1979-1983 Road Construction Program (para. 3.08), and as men-
tioned above, MOW is taking measures to improve design standards and to re-
view axle load limits. A Maintenance Program will also be carried out under
the Highway Sector Development Plan (paras. 3.16-3.18).
2.03      Many earth and gravel roads were taken over by RD from the county
councils in 1969. The roads were in poor condition, but funds have never
been sufficient to make the necessary improvements or to maintain all the
roads to an adequate standard (paras. 2.33-2.34). The Highway Transport Study
estimated that only about 9% of all earth and gravel primary and secondary
roads are all-weather roads, 63% are limited all-weather and 28% are impass-
able for significant periods of the year. Very little information is avail-
able on the minor roads, but many are impassable for extensive portions
of the year. Improvement of selected priority earth and gravel roads will
mainly be carried out under the ongoing Gravelling, Culverting and Bridging
Program (GCBP) (para. 2.45). The Sector Plan's proposed Maintenance Pro,gram
should also substantially Lmprove standards on many of the roads.
Road Inventory
2.04      MOW began a road inventory in 1971 and covered 62% of the
classified network by 1976; work was discontinued thereafter because of
lack of funds and vehicles. Updated information is consequently needed on
the length of the network by road class and type as well as the condition
of the road network. Government therefore agreed to re-establish, and
subsequently maintain, the road inventory by June 30, 1980 (para. 4.01(a)).
2.05      Adequate traffic data are collected by the Traffic Unit of RD.  An
official 60-point census is taken manually every year during June-July, with
43 points located on trunk and primary roads. A 3,000-point census is a:Lso
taken, with each point surveyed every two years.
Traffic Growth and Characteristics
2.06      Since calendar year 1965 the vehicle fleet has increased by 7% p.a.
to a total of 215,734 vehicles in 1976, when vehicle density was 16 per
thousand population (Annex V, T-2). From 1972, just before the oil crisis, to
1976 the vehicle fleet increased by 8% p.a., although the growth rate of
registration of new vehicles decreased by an average of 3% p.a. However, in
1977 new vehicle registration increased by 37% over 1976, and was at an
all-time high.
2.07      From calendar years 1970 to 1976, traffic on the classified road
network increased by an average of 6% p.a.; however, during 1970-73 traffic



- 10 -
grew at 14% p.a., but declined thereafter because of the oil crisis. Although
final data are not yet available, traffic levels seem to have substantially
increased in 1977 and were well above the average growth rate. Between 1970
and 1976, the highest traffic increase occurred on primary and secondary roads
(11% and 10% p.a., respectively). Although traffic growth on trunk roads has
been lower (3% p.a.), these roads, which comprise about 13% of the total net-
work, carry about 62% of total vehicle-km and take nearly all the heavy goods
traffic. Traffic on paved trunk roads averages 800 vpd and on all trunk roads
600 vpd, with 16% carrying over 1,000 vpd; about a third of this traffic con-
sists of trucks and buses. Traffic on the primary roads averages 190 vpd, 26%
of which is trucks and buses; 30% of all primary roads carry between 250-1,000
vpd. Secondary roads have traffic volumes of about 50 vpd, about 30% of which
is trucks and buses. Minor roads have average traffic volumes ranging from
17 vpd on earth roads to 40 vpd on gravel roads. The growth in consumption of
gas and diesel fuel was 7% p.a. during 1970-76, higher than the traffic growth
rate but equal to that of the vehicle fleet.
Vehicle Regulations
2.08      The Materials Branch Road Research Unit, which takes regular surveys
of vehicle weights on most main roads, has found that the average axle load
of medium and heavy trucks is 13 tons on the Mombasa-Ugandan border road and
11 tons on other main roads. This clearly indicates that the maximum 8.0 ton
single axle load permitted under present legislation has been generally disre-
garded. However, from preliminary work already done in Kenya by the Transport
and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL, UK), it appears that present axle-load
limits should be raised, and could even be as high as 11 to 13 tons. In order
to ensure that axle load limits are appropriate and economically optimal, a
study will be undertaken to establish the trade-off between lower truck
operating costs per ton/km and higher road construction and maintenance costs.
The study will also include a review of the types of trucks, either imported
or locally assembled, which do most damage to the roads and recommendations
on possible measures to regulate such trucks. The undertaking of a study
to be completed by January 1, 1981 to determine economically optimal
axle-load limits, and the submission to the Bank for its comments of a
program for the implementation of the study's recommendations is a general
sector condition which was agreed with Government (para. 3.44 (b)). The study
is to be included in the road-user charges study which will be undertaken by
consultants (para. 1.15).
2.09      The introduction of the oil pipeline (para 1.10) has led to a sub-
stantial decrease in the number of oil tankers, the most heavily overloaded
vehicles, on the road between Mombasa and Nairobi, as well as to the release
of spare capacity on the railway. The newly-released rail capacity could
eventually absorb much of the heavy traffic on the Nairobi-Ugandan border
road.
2.10      A traffic law enforcement program was agreed under the Fourth
Highway Project (Cr. 276-KE), which included the construction of two weigh-
bridges on the Mombasa-Nairobi road, establishment of a separate Roads Traffic
Branch within the Kenya Police, and the setting up of ten highway patrol units
and four vehicle inspection centers. Operations of the police patrols and



- 11 -
vehicle inspection centers have been constrained by insufficient recurrent
funds. The weighbridges were constructed by 1974; the first weighbridge
became operational in mid-1978 and the second will open in late-1978 due
to delays in provision of facilities for the stations and the installation
of dynamic weighbridges. Thus the full effect of the opened weighbridges
cannot yet be calculated.  Under the 'Highway Sector Development Plan.
however, fuirther measures have been included to enforce traffic regulations,
and the recurrent funds aeeded to support these measures will be provided
by Government (para. 3.19).
2.11       Government is also faced with a need to improve road safety.  Road
accidents have been increasing at a high rate since independence, and the
number of resulting deaths has quintupled.  Too few vehicle inspection centers
and police patrols have prevented adequate enforcement of safety standards
for commercial vehicles, which are a major cause of accidents on trunk roads.
Mleasures to improve this situation are included under the Highway Sector
Development Plan (para. 3.19).
Road Trangpprt
Freight Traffic
2.12       The trucking il:dustry in Kenya consists of about 2,050 commercial
for-hire carriers operating about 5,300 trucks, and 2,020 private carriers
operating about 5,800 trucks for their own use.  KENATCO, the largest commer-
cial for-hire road transp?ort company, is owned by the Government through the
Industrial and CommerciaL Development Corporation; the major part of its
activities is on the Moml3asa-Ugandan border road. About 30% of the fleet for
public hire is operated by 60 large carriers, and the remaining 70% is operated
by nearly 2,000 small- to medium-size private companies. The number of com-
panies partly or wholly owned by Kenyan transporters has substantially in-
creased over the last five years, and only a few companies are now completely
owned by non-Kenyans.
2.13       According to a national traffic survey carried out as part of the
Highway Transport Study, an estimated 6.55 million tons of goods were trans-
ported by road in 1976, of which 340,000 tons originated or terminated outside
Kenya; 60% of the total was transported by privately-owned carriers, 37% by
commercial for-hire carriLers, and 3% by Government vehicles.  In general, of
the long-distance traffic hauled by commercial carriers, most is hauled by
large operators, while the rest of the industry is engaged in short and inter-
mediate-distance hauling,  All carriers have to be licensed; licenses for
public carriers specify commodities to be carried and transport routes, but
transport rates are not specified. Overall, the trucking industry is compe-
titive and responsive to economical;Ly viable demand.  On the basis of evidence
collected from the truck;'ng industry survey carried out by the Highway Trans-
port Study (para. 2.25), published tariffs by large operators appear to be
related to operating cosl:s, at least for long-distance hauling; however,
road-user taxes may be too low for the heaviest trucks. Rates for local
trucking in rural areas are considerably higher per km (20-40%) than those of
long-haul trucking and would seem to be the result of poor road conditions,



- 12 -
seasonal demand and lack of competition. Although transport service is good
for major centers of economic activity, many rural areas of the country are
poorly served. However, the construction of rural access roads under the
Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) (paras. 2.43-2.44) and improvement of minor
and secondary roads under the GCBP (para. 2.45) will provide an improved rural
road network, which should help to stimulate agricultural production and
therefore demand for and supply of transport services; this will be monitored
under an RARP monitoring and evaluation study (para. 2.46).
Road Passenger Traffic
2.14      Road passenger transport grew at an annual rate of 8% from 1966-
1976. Transport services are offered by both licensed bus and unlicensed
matatu (local taxi) operators. The latter are small private vehicles, mostly
owned by Kenyan owner/operators, which are allowed to carry passengers for
hire or reward without public hire licensing requirements. The Government
regulates maximum bus and matatu fares, although this does not appear to con-
strain operators since fares are highly competitive and most of the industry
rarely charges the maximum fares prescribed. The long-distance market is
dominated by a few major bus companies, but short-haul services are provided
by small as well as medium and large-scale operators. Except for a few dis-
tricts, the provision of bus services in the country's various areas is gener-
ally correlated with population size. Gaps in bus services are often filled
by matatus, about 2,000 of which operate out of Nairobi, and about 1,600 serve
other districts and rural areas.
B. Roads Department
Administration and Management
2.15      MOW has full responsibility for administration, construction and
maintenance of the classified highway system (50,600 km). Under the respon-
sibility of the Permanent Secretary, Engineer-in-Chief, are five departments
(Annex V, C-I): RD, headed by the Chief Roads Engineer, is responsible for
planning, construction and maintenance of roads; the Mechanical and Transport
Department (MTD), headed by the Chief Mechanical and Transport Engineer, is
responsible for most of the procurement and maintenance of MOW vehicles and
equipment (including those for road maintenance), in addition to maintaining
some other ministries' vehicles; the Staff Training Department (STD), headed
by the Director, trains all RD and MTD supervisory and lower level personnel;
the Administration Department, headed by a Deputy-Secretary, takes care of
MOW's personnel and financial affairs; and the Buildings Department, headed by
the Chief Architect, is responsible for all Government buildings. In addition
MOW has provincial headquarters in six provinces, each headed by a Provincial
Engineer who reports directly to the Permanent Secretary.
2.16      Under the Bank Group's Third Highway and Maintenance Projects, MOW
was reorganized and considerably strengthened. RD was split into three
branches as shown in Annex V, C-I: Development, in charge of all matters



- 13 -
pertaining to road construction; Maintenance, responsible for road mainten-
ance; and Materials, responsible for the standards of materials used in road
construction and maintenance, research and pavement design. Later, a Special
Projects Branch was set up to look after special road construction programs.
With the Bank Group assistance provided to RD, STD and MTD, the Ministry has
been able to construct over 7,000 km of roads since 1970 and has been respons-
ible for the maintenance of the 50,600 km network, compared to the 19,000 km
maintained in 1969, 13,000 km of which were actually maintained by the local
authorities. MOW has been able to cope with this growth in its volume of
work, albeit with some delays, while simultaneously developing its institu-
tional capabilities.
Staffing
2.17      RD's staffing situation is now generally satisfactory.  It currently
has about 90 local and expatriate engineers excluding trainees but including
engineers working with force account construction units (the RARP, GCBP,
etc.). By early 1980, RD plans to expand its engineering staff to 113.
Numbers of staff at subprofessional levels are adequate, with the exception
of senior supervisory staff where about 70 vacancies exist out of 215 estab-
lished posts. With the help of STD's training program (para. 2.20) which is
scheduled to train about 80 senior supervisory staff during 1978-79, these
vacancies should be filled by the end of 1979. Overall, with the projected
increase in the number of engineers by 1980, plus additional engineers
recommended by the Bank (paras. 2.19, 2.35), the staffing situation should be
adequate to effectively carry out the Sector Plan. Government has agreed on
the general sector condition of meeting projected staffing requirements for RD
based on a program to be agreed between Government and the Bank by September
30, 1979 (para. 3.44 (c)).
2.18      The Kenyanization of RD's upper-level staff is progressing at an
increasingly satisfactory rate. In 1970, RD had only 14 Kenyan engineers;
thereafter this number incraased rather slowly because of the limited output
of graduate engineers from the university. However, the number of graduating
engineers increased considerably during the mid-1970s, and RD was able to
recruit more for its graduate engineer training program (para. 2.19). By the
end of 1979, when about 60 Eully qualified local engineers will be employed
by RD, with another 65 in training, RD will need expatriates for about 45% of
its engineering positions, in comparison to the 80% needed in 1970. This
means that RD will still have to rely on about 50 expatriates during the
early part of the Plan periDd, but sholuld be able to substantially Kenyanize
its engineering staff during implementation of the Plan, and should almost
completely Kenyanize its staff by 1985, when only a few experienced and
specialized expatriate engineers will be necessary.
Training
Engineers
2.19      MOW has a sound training program for engineers recently graduated
from university. RD has an annual intake of 30 trainees who are employed for



- 14 -
three years as assistant engineers and are rotated through several RD branches
to receive some training in each specialty. Trainees are also seconded to
consultants doing design and supervision work for MOW. Thereafter, they are
appointed to permanent engineering positions or are sent for further training
abroad. The training program is generally satisfactory and should gradually
satisfy RD's staffing requirements, though there is a need to improve the
training of engineers in design since the training capacity of the Design
Section is constrained by the need for more engineers who should undertake
training as part of their overall duties. Government has consequently agreed
to create additional posts for design engineers and to fill those posts by
September 30, 1980 (para. 4.01 (b)).
Supervisory and Other Staff
2.20      The training of subprofessional personnel for all MOW departments
(road supervisors, officers-in-charge, mechanics, equipment operators, and
drivers) is the responsibility of STD, which was expanded in 1971 with IDA
assistance (Cr. 224-KE). STD's performance has been extremely good, and
adequate numbers of staff have been trained to fill nearly all of RD's posts
for junior supervisors and plant operators and drivers as well as to meet the
substantial needs of RARP and GCBP. Altogether about 2,260 personnel have
been trained or retrained between 1971-1977 (Annex V, T-3). A shortage
does, however, exist of senior supervisory staff (inspectors and superinten-
dents), particularly in the Maintenance Branch, which has resulted from
insufficient numbers of suitable candidates within the Ministry. This problem
is gradually being resolved as increasing numbers of candidates are becoming
eligible for training and promotion to senior levels or, in a few cases, are
being recruited from the local technical institute.
2.21      To deal with the increasing need for trained manpower for the RARP,
GCBP, MTD, and the normal growth of highway maintenance activities, STD is in
the process of expanding its training facilities with financing from the
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) and has procured training
equipment and teaching aids with Bank Group financing under Loan 1305/Credit
651-KE. STD will thus increase its facilities by about 50% and should be
able to cope with anticipated manpower requirements, the greatest of which
will be for mechanics for MTD (para. 2.40). Government has agreed to the
general sector condition of meeting projected training requirements for MOW,
based on a program to be agreed between Government and the Bank by September
30, 1979 (para. 3.44(c)). STD's staff consists of 57 instructors, of whom 11
are expatriates; 11 more instructors are now being recruited. Its training
program for the Highway Sector Plan period is shown in Annex V, T-3.
Finance
2.22      The budget for road construction and maintenance is prepared by RD,
and reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Finance before being submitted
for approval to the Cabinet and Parliament. RD's capital and recurrent
expenditures from 1970 to 1978 are given in Annex V, T-4. Capital expen-
ditures increased steadily throughout that period, with the exception of 1975



- 1.5 -
and 1976 when the downturn in expenditures reflects the internal economic
effects of the oil crisis. Over half of RD's capital expenditure since 1970
has been financed from foreign loans and grants.  RD's recurrent expenditures
steadily increased during the first half of the period, but since 1974 have
decreased in real terms (para. 2.34) with the result that the maintenance
allocation in current prices for 1979 is KS 190 (US$475) per km while an
estimated KS 260 (US$660) per km is required (Annex II, para. 14).  Howe!ver,
as part of the Highway Sector Development Plan, Government will substantially
increase maintenance allocations to raise maintenance standards to satisfac-
tory levels (para. 3.18).
2.23      Government revenue from road-user taxation was about Kn 28 million
(US$70 million) in 1976 and was derived from road license charges, gasoline
and diesel oil import duties and taxes (although not all diesel oil was used
by road users), and import duties on vehicles and vehicle parts (Annex V',
T-5). Until 1970, revenues from road-user taxation exceeded highway con-
struction and maintenance expenditures, but with the increase in highway
expenditures in the early seventies the situation changed, and by 1973, total
highway expenditures exceeded revenue's by 60%. This situation has, however,
reversed itself and in 1976 highway revenues actually exceeded expenditures.
Even with the increase in maintenance expenditures foreseen under the proposed
Highway Sector Program, road user revenues will still cover all maintenaLnce
costs and will continue to substantiaLlly contribute toward construction costs.
There is still a need, however, to review road-user charges, since trucks may
not be covering the full cost of their use of the road network (para. 1.15).
Planning
2.24      Road planning is undertaken by RD's Planning Unit after consulta-
tion with other ministries, and the plan is submitted to MEPCA for approval.
The Unit is also responsible for much of the feasibility work carried out
for road construction projects, as well as for identification of major road
projects and programs. The Unit prepared acceptable feasibility studies
for the Bank Group's Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects and developed a method
of economic evaluation for selecting rural access roads under the RARP
(para. 2.44).
2.25      At the Bank's request, the Planning Unit has carried out a Highway
Transport Study with the assistance of a CIDA-financed team of three trans-
port economists (para. 1.11). The Study reviewed in detail the classification
system of the highway network, road transport, and highway system performance
and objectives. It also reviewed, although not in detail, road-rail coordina-
tion and user charges, road safety, and transport in rural areas. The C'EDA
team also worked with the Planning Unit to identify projects to be included
in the Highway Sector Plan and to carry out economic analysis for almost every
project included in that Plan. In addition, the team assisted the Maintenance
Branch to draw up a Maintenance Program which is also included in the Sector
Plan. The Planning Unit intends to continue to base its sector plans on
economic criteria, and therefore has included posts for two economists inl
its staff requirements in order to continue the CIDA team's work.



- 16 -
2.26      Both of Kenya's two previous highway sector plans (para. 1.17)
considerably underestimated costs. Costs for the Second Plan rose because of
increased design standards, which were generally justified, and a substantial
change in project composition in line with changing Government priorities.
Costs during the Third Plan period increased because of rapid worldwide
inflation. The factors raising costs also affected the implementation of both
plans, although progress was still satisfactory, and construction was com-
pleted on about 3,000 km of trunk and primary roads (about two-thirds of the
amount originally planned) and about 4,600 km of secondary, minor and rural
access roads (nearly 30% of original targets). The latter targets, however,
reflect Government's over-optimism as to the time required to establish
complex programs like the RARP and GCBP, which are only now showing results.
MOW has set more realistic targets for the proposed Sector Plan.
Engineering
2.27      MOW policy is to use its own staff whenever possible for road design
work, but due to the shortage of sufficiently experienced engineering staff,
consultants perform much of this work. Detailed engineering is thus carried
out by a number of international consulting firms operating out of Nairobi.
MOW, with a view to gradually taking on more design work itself, now assigns
its trainee engineers to work with consultants engaged in design and super-
vision of road contracts so that the local engineers may gain more experience.
2.28      Many sections of the roads paved in the 1960s and early 1970s are
showing signs of deterioration, according to a performance evaluation study
carried out by the Materials Branch of MOW. Extensive potholes, severe rut-
ting and crazing, longitudinal cracking and, in some places, severe deforma-
tions and pavement failure are in evidence, particularly on the Mombasa-
Nairobi-Ugandan border road. This deterioration is mainly due to: (a) a
traffic growth rate higher than forecast in the original designs; (b) axle
overloading (para. 2.08); (c) failure to strengthen the pavement after five
years as required by the original design standards; (d) inadequate maintenance
(para. 2.34); (e) inadequate design standards and (f) possible poor supervi-
sion of construction. Among several measures being taken to help prevent
further deterioration of the road network, MOW is reviewing its road design
standards to incorporate current and projected needs, particularly with
respect to traffic characteristics, axle loading, pavement types and thick-
nesses, surface types, and drainage. The proposed geometric design standards,
which have been reviewed by the Bank and found adequate, are compared with
current road design standards in Annex V, T-6. Design standards for pavements
and bridges are expected to be made final shortly and will be reviewed by the
Bank at that time. A condition for subprojects to be financed by the Bank
under the proposed project will be that design standards are satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.45).
Construction
Contract Construction
2.29      Highway construction is for the most part carried out by contract.
The local contracting industry in Kenya has grown considerably in recent years,



- 17 -
and major works have been awarded both to large local firms and to foreign
firms with branches in Kenya.  Smaller works, notably isolated bridge construc-
tion and gravelling contracts, have generally been awarded to smaller local
contractors. To expand on MOW's efforts to encourage the local contracting
industry, the Bank is currently discussing with Government the possible pro-
vision of Bank assistance to local contractors. Major contracts are unit-
price type, awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding after
prequalification of contractors. RD's Contracts Division adequately admin-
isters road contracts, contract conditions and qualification and bidding
procedures of 140W; specifications are satisfactory.
2.30      Supervision of road construction work is normally carried out by
consultants, although RD has taken on a few projects and is currently involved
in supervising works financed under Loan 932-KE. RD's supervisory staff is
drawn from local personnel, and supervision is satisfactory. RD expects to
be further involved in supervision whSen more experienced engineering staff is
available.
Force Account Constructicn
2.31      Apart from construction under the RARP and GCBP (paras. 2.43-2.46),
MOW is using its own construction units on several projects to construct
about 400 km of trunk roads and 790 km of other roads, mostly in remote areas.
Some uniits employ labor from the National Youth Service which was created to
provide training and employment for school leavers. The performance of these
units is gradually improving after soime initial problems on the construction
of settlement roads financed under Ln. 639-KE (paras. 1.22, 1.24). NORAD is
financing and providing technical asistance for a unit constructing 270 km of
trunk roads. Another unit is constructing 660 km of roads in the remote
northeast area of the country, with Japanese financing for the equipment.
Some construction units have equipment specifically purchased for construction
of a particular road, while other units hire equipment from MTD, in which
case output tends to be lower because of the low availability rate of equip-
ment arising from MTD's poor performance (para. 2.39). Nevertheless, the
work done by these units should improve as MTD's own efficiency improves
under the Highway Sector Development Plan (para. 3.17).
Maintenance
2.32      RD is responsible for maintenance of all classified roads, exciept
those within municipalities and national parks, and carries out its main-
tenance operations through the Maintenance Branch which is headed by a
Chief Maintenance Engineer. The organization of the Maintenance Branch is
satisfactory. It is divided at headquarters into three sections (Planning
and Methods, Inspectorate, and Mechanical) and countrywide into six provinces.
Within each province, responsibility for maintenance lies with a Provincial
Road Engineer, who is assisted by a Divisional Road Engineer, reporting to
the Provincial Engineer as well as to the Chief Maintenance Engineer (para.
2.15). Thereafter, each province is further subdivided into regions under a
Superintendent, districts under Senior Inspectors,.and divisions under
Inspectors. Each administrative level carries out a particular function:



- 1]8 -
work programming is undertaken at the provincial level; the districts have
overall responsibility for execution of maintenance operations and allocation
of vehicles and equipment; and the divisions are responsible for the day-to-
day activities of road gangs based in road camps.
2.33      In 1968, the road network was found to be deteriorating, partly
because of vehicle overloading, but largely because road maintenance by local
authorities was inadequate (para. 2.03). Government therefore made MOW
responsible for maintenance of the entire classified network which increased
the maintenance workload sixfold. To prepare the Ministry to carry out this
work, an organizational study was undertaken as part of the Third Highway
Project (Loan 639-KE) which recommended reorganization of MOW, an extensive
training program and provision of new maintenance equipment, maintenance
facilities and mechanical workshops. In response to the findings of the study
(1970), Government undertook an extensive Road Maintenance Project covering
19,000 km of roads, with the financial assistance of the Bank Group (Cr.
224-KE). The Maintenance Branch was thus able to expand its activities and
increase its staff; MTD was also able to broaden the scope of its work through
the provision of maintenance equipment and construction of regional workshops.
2.34      Road maintenance improved considerably until 1975 when it began to
decline because of insufficient recurrent funds for equipment rental and run-
ning costs. This problem, plus the deteriorating performance of MTD (para.
2.39), has resulted in maintenance work coming to a standstill for two to four
months a year for the last four years. As a consequence, resealing and regra-
velling work as well as routine maintenance have been cut back substantially.
An estimated backlog of over 1,000 km of resealing and about 3,000 km of re-
gravelling now exists. The GCBP and the Maintenance Program included in the
Highway Sector Development Plan will address these problems (paras. 3.12,
3.16).
2.35      The Maintenance Branch of RD has suffered from staff shortages at
the engineer and supervisory staff levels. During the past few years only one
of two established positions for engineers in each province has been filled,
leaving only one road engineer responsible for all road maintenance operations.
RD is attempting to rectify this problem by making increased efforts to fill
the second established post in each province, and there are now two engineers
in four of the six provinces and the remaining two posts should be filled
shortly. However, since three of the provinces are very large and need at
least one additional maintenance engineer, MOW has established a third
position at the Divisional Road Engineer level. Agreement was obtained from
Government to fill additional road maintenance engineer positions by September
30, 1980 (para. 4.01(b)). Training of supervisory staff has improved in
recent years, and the number of supervisory vacancies should be filled in the
near future (para. 2.20).
2.36      The Maintenance Branch also suffers from an excess number of un-
skilled and, to a lesser extent, skilled staff who, as Government employees,
are difficult to lay off. Skilled staff, mainly plant operators, have been
inactive owing to a lack of equipment because of declining availability rates
and size of the fleet (para. 2.39). Efforts have been made to transfer



- 19 -
certain categories of staff to the RIRP and GCBP, and overall the aumbers
decreased by 10% in 1978; this trend is expected to cont-inue, although at a
decreased rate. RD hopes to better utilize its excess labor by employing
them on more labor-intensive maintenance works; this possibility is beinr
studied by the United States Agency for International Developmenc (USAID)
which should make its preliminary findings available in 1979/1980.
2.37      The Maintenance Branch does not have an adequate cost accounting
system to provide sufficient information on costs and outptlt. However,
measures to start up an adequate system are included under the Highway Sector
Plan (para. 3.26) and were agreed wilth Government as a sector condition (para.
3.44 (g)).
C. Mechanical and Transport Department
Administration
2.38      MTD hires out vehicles and plant to user departrments under an
arrangemernt called the Funding Scheme (para. 2.41).  The Maintenance Branch is
the main user, hiring about 85% of all MTD vehicles and equipment.  MTD lias a
central workshop in Nairobi and 7 provincial and 19 district workshops; the
central and provincial workshops handlle heavy repairs to vehicles and plant,
and the district workshops undertake light repairs and routine servicing.
2.39      Vehicle and equipment availability rates have declined from 80% in
1974 to 55% in 1978. Concerned with this decline, in 1978 the Permanent
Secretary ordered a committee, composed of representatives of RD and MT]) as
well as top MOW management, to carry out an in-depth analysis of the reasons
for decreased availability. The committee produced a sound report which
identified the following problems: (a) poor maintenance of vehicles and
equipment, including preventive maintenance by drivers and operators, and
poorly carried out maintenance in MTD's workshops; (b) a large number of
vehicles and equipment beyond their economic life because of insufficient
funds for replacement of equipment; (c) lack of funds for, and availability
of, spare parts (the average waiting time for major spare parts is six to nine
months); (d) inadequate workshop facilities; (e) insufficient funds to hire
an adequate number of mechanics; (f) poor performance of the Central Workshop;
(g) lack of standardization; and (h) poor coordination between MTD and the
Maintenance Branch which caused the latter to receive vehicles and equipment
inappropriate to its needs. Already drawn up is a list of measures to
improve MTD's performance, including the acquisition of more mechanical
staff, training, workshops, vehicles and equipment as well as equipment
standardization and greater coordination with user agencies. These measures
have been included in the Highway Sector Plan's Maintenance Program (para.
3.16), which is based on achieving an adequate availability rate of 75% for
maintenance vehicles and equipment (Annex II, para. 5). Government has agreed
on a general sector condition that satisfactory progress will be made in
improving the efficiency of MTD (para. 3.44(d)).



- 20 -
Staffing and Training
2.40      MTD presently has 29 engineering and professional personnel, 3 of
whom are expatriates; its 900 supervisory, mechanical and technical staff
are almost entirely Kenyan nationals. MTD has a program to train engineers,
and about 15 assistant engineers are in training at any one time. One of MTD's
major problems has been an insufficient number of mechanics to repair equip-
ment, particularly mechanics at the higher staff levels. STD will therefore
expand its training program in order to provide MTD with an additional 750
mechanics at all grades. MTD also plans to increase its staff with a few
more professional personnel, whose recruitment should pose no problem, along
with 50 supervisory staff. These staffing levels are regarded as adequate,
and Government agreed on the general sector condition of meeting projected
staffing requirements for MTD based on a program to be agreed between Govern-
ment and the Bank by September 30, 1979 (para. 3.44(c)).
Finance
2.41      MTD receives appropriations-in-aid from the Ministry of Finance at
the beginning of the fiscal year for maintenance and renewal of vehicles and
equipment; these funds are subsequently paid back during the course of the
year by funding (or hire) charges collected from uiser agencies. The MTD
Equipment Funding Scheme has not been working well in the past few years since
the main user agency, the Maintenance Branch, has not been allocated suffi-
cient funds to allow MTD to increase its funding rates in line with mainte-
nance costs and the current price of replacements and spare parts. In 1978,
the funding system was reviewed by consultants (H.G. Gauff, Federal Republic
of Germany) who found the system adequate but needing more funds and better
administration. The study was, however, necessarily brief since MOW wanted
only a quick, overall objective assessment to present to the Ministry of
Finance to impress on them the urgency of allocating more funds. Therefore,
Government agreed that, after completion of the inventory of MTD's maintenance
fleet (para. 3.25), a detailed review of MTD's Equipment Funding Scheme will
be carried out by January 1, 1981, and specific recommendations for improving
the funding system will be made and submitted to the Bank for its comments
(para. 4.01(c)). The review may be carried out by technical assistance or
consultants. Recommendations will cover: (a) how to make more effective use
of the system to achieve improved efficiency of equipment, such as charging
for idle time; (b) appropriate funding levels, with special attention to
actual maintenance costs; and (c) how to improve the administration of the
system.
2.42      As an interim measure to correct the funding system, Government has
already increased user rates to cover depreciation (without interest) and
maintenance (taken as a percentage of renewal costs), in line with estimates
made by the consultants. These rates have been used in estimating recurrent
funds necessary for implementation of the Maintenance Program under the High-
way Sector Plan (para. 3.18).



- 21 -
D. Rural Access Roads and Gravelling,
Culverting and Bridging Programs
2.43      Kenya's Third Development Plan 1974-1978 emphasized development and
improvement of secondary, minor and rural access roads. To carry out this
work, two programs were established: the RARP to construct about 15,000 km of
low-cost rural access roads by predominantly labor-intensive methods in 23 of
Kenya's most populous and agriculturally productive districts; and the GCBP to
upgrade about 10,000 km of secondary and minor classified roads to all-weather
standard.
2.44      Because of its heavy labor input, RARP should redistribute income to
the local population in accordance with Government's policy of increasing
rural employment opportunities. The initial selection of roads for the pro-
gram and the collection of data necessary for economic evaluation is done at
the local level; economic analysis of the roads and overseeing that roads are
selected according to RARP criteria are done by RD's Planning Unit. RARP was
originally estimated to cost about US$100 million which would finance 74 con-
struction units during the period 1975-1982; this target will be changed under
the Sector Plan (para. 3.13). Funds for 42 units have already been committed
by Government, various lending agencies 1/, and the Bank Group which is pro-
viding US$8 million under Loan 1305/Credit 651-KE. So far, 17 units have
actually been established and 670 km of roads were constructed by July 1978;
implementation has been slow because of start-up procurement, organizational
and staffing problems, but is now improving. All 42 units should be in oper-
ation by 1980.
2.45      The RARP will ultimately increase the importance of the secondary
and minor roads fed by rural access roads. Many of these secondary and minor
roads have not been improved since MOW became responsible for them in 1969,
and others have deteriorated because of inadequate maintenance (para. 2.34 4).
MOW, therefore, instituted the GCBP to improve 10,000 km of these roads to
all-weather standard from 1977 to 1984. CIDA has already established three
units in three provinces, and USAID and KfW will be establishing four units
in two other provinces.
2.46      A monitoring and evaluation study of RARP and part of the GCBP is
about to start. RD's Planning Unit will set up a special unit to monitor
the programs and evaluate the impact of the roads. Kenya's Central Bureau of
Statistics will undertake all the field surveys with the exception of traffic
counts (which will be carried out by th;e Planning Unit), and the field work
necessary for assessing the environmental impact (which will be carried ou1t
by consultants). The study will last five years and cost US$1.7 million
(Kh 650,000), with financing provided by Government, USAID and the Bank Group
under the Rural Access Roads Project.
1/   Overseas Development Ministry (ODM, UK); USAID; Danish International
Development Association (DANIDA); Norwegian Agency for International
Development (NORAD); the Netherlands; and the European Development
Fund (EDF).



- 22 -
III. HIGHWAY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN
A. Background
3.01      A Highway Sector Development Plan has been prepared by MOW in con-
junction with MPC and the Road Traffic Police. It covers fiscal years 1979
to 1983 and includes both capital and recurrent expenditures for road con-
struction and maintenance as well as traffic law enforcement. Government
has given the Bank the opportunity to review and comment upon various drafts
of the Plan since its inception. The Plan's construction program was origin-
ally prepared in 1977 as part of the Highway Transport Study, and subsequently
revised by RD's Planning Unit and a team of staff from various RD branches.
The draft program was then submitted to the Ministry of Finance who reviewed
it in detail. At the suggestion of the Bank, a maintenance program was drawn
up by RD with the assistance of the Highway Transport Study Team and was dis-
cussed with the Ministry of Finance during project appraisal. Again, at the
suggestion of the Bank a program for traffic law enforcement and road safety
was formulated by MPC, the Planning Unit and the Road Traffic Police. Govern-
ment approval of the Highway Plan was only given in February 1979, although the
first year of the Plan is well underway.
B. Objectives
3.02      The main objectives of the Highway Sector Development Plan are:
(a)  to preserve investment in Kenya's existing paved roads;
(b)  to selectively upgrade the existing road network;
(c)  to establish equitable levels of road access throughout
the country, with special emphasis on rural areas;
(d)  to maintain all of the existing classified road network
to an acceptable standard;
(e)  to strengthen MOW; and
(f)  to improve traffic law enforcement and road safety.
The Highway Sector Plan will form part of the Fourth National Development
Plan, the objectives of which are to alleviate poverty and provide for basic
needs. The Sector Plan will support Government's intention to preserve and
improve utilization of existing infrastructure.



- 23 -
C. Description
Overall Scope and Costs of the Plan
3.03      The Sector Plan includes three Programs (Road Construction, Mainte-
nance and Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety) as well as expenditure
for supporting activities for the above programs. Total proposed sector Plan
development expenditures (Annex V, T-7), amount to KS 219 million (US$585
million) in constant 1979 prices, and KS 274 million (US$732 million) includ-
ing contingencies (Kb 227 million excluding taxes and duties). The foreign
exchange component is estimated at about KE 170 million, about 62% of program
costs. Recurrent expenditure for the Plan period amounts to KS 87 million
(US$232 million), and Kb 109 million (US$292 million) including contingencies.
3.04      Of the total capital expenditures of KS 274 million, including
contingencies, 83% is for the Road Construction Program, 5% for the Maintenance
Program, and the remaining 12% for the Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety
Program and supporting activities for all programs. Proposed expenditure on
road construction amounts to Kb 228 million, on buildings and workshops Kb 5
million, on equipment Kb 12 million, on consultants and technical assistance
Kb 23 million, and on other miscellaneous items Kb 6 million.  Altogether
over 16,600 km of roads will be constructed, of which 90% will serve rural
areas as primary, secondary, minor and rural access roads. Of the total amount
of recurrent expenditure (Kb 109 million including contingencies), nearly 85%
is for road maintenance (excluding training) which, beginning in 1980, will
represent a substantial increase over the levels of recurrent maintenance
expenditure during the previous four years (para. 3.29).
3.05      The table on the following page summarizes proposed expenditures
included in the Sector Plan and shows expenditures during the two preceding
Plan periods in constant 1979 prices. The Sector Plan includes Kb 135 million
on expenditures for ongoing projects and Kb 139 million on expenditures for
new projects, some of which will be completed during the Plan period and the
remainder during the next Plan period. The proposed Bank loan (para. 3.42)
will finance new commitments undertaken during the middle three years, 1980-82,
of the Sector Plan.
Road Construction Program
3.06      The road construction program amounts to KS 182.3 million (in
constant prices, Annex V, T-7), of which 14% is for strengthening of paved
trunk roads, 33% for reconstruction and upgrading of trunk roads, 43% for
upgrading of primary, secondary and minor roads, and 10% for rural access
roads. While 47% of total expenditure is allocated to 1,690 km of trunk
roads, 14,950 km of rural roads will be built with 53% of total expenditure.
A summary of the road construction program is given in Annex V, T-8 and
details are given in Annex V, T-9.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Comparison of Actual and Proposed Road Construction and Maintenance Expenditures
Actual Expenditures in -            Proposed Expenditure in              Proposed Ecpenditures in
1979 Prices               1979 Prices    Current Prices          1979 Prices   Current Prices 2/
1970-1974         1974-1978            9-i83           1975-1983         1979-1983          1979-1983
CAPITAL                                                                KR million -------------------------              ----US$ million-------
Trunk and Primary Roads                        133.0             92.0              120.7              152.7             322.3             407.7
Secondary and Minor Roads                       34.5             14.7               18.7               22.4              49.9              59.8
Special Purpose Roads, GCBP and RARP            34.0             40.0               42.8               53.2             114.3             142.0
Road Maintenance  4/                            14.7              7.8               12.3               14.8              32.8              39.5
Traffic Law Enforcement and
Road Safety                                    6/               6/                 1.5                2.0               4.0               5.3
Technical Assistance                             6/               6/                 3.3                3.8                8.8             10.1
Miscellaneous 5/                                27.3             14.9               20.0               25.3               53.4             67.6
Sub-total Capital                   243.5            169.4              219.3              274.2              585.5            732.0
(Net of Taxes and Duties)                                               181.0              226.5             483.0             604.7
RECURRENT
Administration RD                                6/               5.3                6.6                8.3               17.6             22.2
Road Maintenance                                53. 0            58=1               66.S               R4 6             177.6             225.9
Mechanical Department 7/                         6/                3.3               6.6                7,9               17.6              21.1
Staff Training Department                        6/               1.7                2.3                2.9               6.0                7.7
Traffic Police                                   6/                6/                2.4                3.1                6.4               8.3
Technical Assistance                             6/               6/                 2.3                2.7                6.4               7.2
Sub-total Recurrent                  53.0             68.4               86.7              109.5             231.6             292.4
(Net of Taxes and Duties)                                                71.0               90.5             190.0             241.5
TOTAL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT         296.5             237.8             306.0              383.7              817.1           1,024.5
TOTAL NET OF TAXES AND DUTIES           -                 -             252.0              317.0              673.0             846.2
1/ The 1970-1974 and 1974-1978 Plan periods overlap 1974 with KE 19.9 million capital and KR 7.5 million recurrent expenditures.
2/ Proposed expenditures in current prices include 10% physical contingencies and the following price contingencies:
1980              1981               1982               1983
Equipment         6.5%               6.0%               6.0%              6.07
Civil Works       7.5                7.0                7.0                7.0
3/  Actual expenditures for 1977 and 1978 have been obtained from Approved Estimates.
4/  Implementation of road maintenance programs, including initial spare supplies, workshops and workshop tools, and buildings and
equipment for Maintenance, Mechanical and Materials Branches.
5/ Includes: construction of ferries; miscellaneous works; planning, design and estimated costs of supervision; acquisition
of land; and other supporting activities.
6/ Information not available for 1970-1973.
7/ Net of equipment hire revenues.



- 25 -
3.07      Road construction is also currently being carried out or will
shortly begin under integrated agricuLtural and tourist development projects
(Annex V, T-10). These roads are funded through their respective agencies,
but RD supervises all stages of construction on most roads, including planning,
design, awarding of contracts, and supervision. Maintenance of these roads
will be undertaken either by RD or the project agency.
Strengthening of Paved Roads
3.08      The road strengthening program, which amounts to Kn 25 million in
the Highway Sector Development Plan, aims at providing drainage improvement
and overlaying of 664 km of paved roads, all of which are already either
extensively damaged or deteriorated. KS 1.1 million of the total amount has
already been allocated for one ongoing project (14 km), but no commitments
have been made for new projects. The selection of roads for the strengthening
program was based on a pavement evaluation study published by the Materials
Branch in March 1978 (para. 2.02), the findings of which are supported
by a road surface roughness survey conducted by the TRRL in June 1978. The
roads will be strengthened to standardls which allow for increased traffic
volumes and axle loads, particulary on the Mombasa-Ugandan border road.
Detailed engineering for the strengthening program will be carried out
by consultants and MOW, and will be prepared on the basis of the revised
pavement design manual (still in drafl: form) and according to the least-cost
alternative. Since it is difficult to predict beyond 1982 which roads
will need strengthening, Government agreed that the road strengthening
program for fiscal years 1983 through 1986 will be prepared by December 31,
1981 and subsequently reviewed by Government and the Bank (para. 4.01(d).
Reconstruction and Upgrading of Trunk Roads
3.09      The program includes almost K6 60 million for the reconstruction of
108 km and upgrading of about 921 km of trunk roads and the construction of some
bridges. About Rh 25.5 million of this is for ongoing projects (457 km) and a
further KS 2.8 million is already committed for new projects (69 km). Recon-
struction and realignment are necessary since the existing roads have failed
and their present alignments are poor., The upgrading of 540 km of roads to
bituminous paved standard is needed in order to reduce vehicle operating and
road maintenance costs, and 201 km will be upgraded to all-weather standard to
support agricultural development activities in various parts of the country.
The remaining 180 km for upgrading will include international trunk roads to
Sudan and Ethiopia, although to what standard will depend on the recommenda-
tions of the feasibility studies and discussions with external financing
agencies.
3.10      Detailed engineering is being or will be prepared by design conuL-
tants and MOW's Design Section. Detailed engineering for about 220 km has
been completed (including all roads scheduled to start in the first two
years), and 65 km are now under preparation.  In addition, designs for 160 km
were completed in the early 1970s but will need to be revised in accordance
with the new design standards; the remtaining 125 km will be prepared during
the Plan period.



- 26 -
Upgrading of Primary Roads
3.11      KE 36.0 million has been included in the program for upgrading of
821 km of primary roads. KE 10.4 million of this is for ongoing projects
(177 km) and a f  ther KE 4.8 million is already committed for new projects
(93 km). Including both new and ongoing projects, a total of 381 km of highly
trafficked earth/gravel roads will be upgraded to bituminous paved standard,
and 440 km of earth roads to all-weather standard. The latter roads have been
specifically selected for the support they will give to agricultural develop-
ment activities. Detailed engineering for most of the upgrading to bituminous
paved standard has been or will soon be completed by consultants, and the
remaining part will be done by RD's Design Section. Detailed engineering for
upgrading of earth roads to all-weather standard is not required since these
roads will not be improved to engineered standards; such engineering as is
necessary will be prepared on site by the engineer-in-charge.
Upgrading of Secondary and Minor Roads
3.12      The program includes a total of KE 42.5 million for upgrading of
5,525 km of secondary and minor roads. About 90% of this expenditure is
already ongoing or committed. The bulk of this work (4,500 km) will be under-
taken by the ongoing GCBP (para. 2.45) and will involve gravelling, selective
bituminizing of steep slopes, and selected minor improvements on priority
secondary and minor roads. Another program, in support of service centers
(Annex III, para. 5), will begin in 1981 to improve secondary and minor roads
to all-weather standard in order to ensure the year-round provision of essen-
tial supplies of goods to rural and market centers and to provide access to
essential educational, medical and marketing facilities in rural centers.
The service center program, recommended in the Highway Transport Study, will
include 240 km during the Plan period, and will be carried out by local con-
tractors. Under the program, high priority roads will be gravelled and low
priority roads will only receive selected minor improvements. The remaining
785 km of secondary and minor roads not included in either the GCBP or service
center programs are mainly ongoing projects.
Rural Access Roads
3.13      The program includes KE 19.0 million for the construction of rural
access roads under the ongoing RARP (para. 2.44); about 90% of these funds
has already been committed. Under the Highway Sector Development Plan the
original target of constructing 15,000 km of roads with 74 construction
units has been modified due to the organizational problems of running so many
construction units. The program will therefore extend over a longer period
of time so that a reduced number of units (43) can complete the 15,000 km.
During the Plan period about 8,600 km of roads will be constructed in 23
districts. All necessary engineering is done in the field by the construction
unit engineers following the guidelines set down by RD and in agreement with
the Bank-financed Rural Access Roads Project.



- 27 -
Supporting Activities for the Road Construction Program
3.14      The Highway Sector Developament Plan includes Kb 15.4 million for
consultant services to implement the construction program and to prepare for
the next Plan period. This will require about 320 man-years of consultant
services for detailed engineering of roads included in the proposed Plan and
projects intended for the next Plan, and 310 man-years of supervision. Con-
sultants will also assist in carrying out the studies on axle-load limits
and road-user charges as well as feasibility studies (not yet selected) for
more complex projects.  A further KS 4.5 million is included in the Sector
Plan for supporting activities such as the RARP monitoring and evaluation
study and miscellaneous items such as traffic surveys, road marking and signs,
and land acquisition. Funds are alresady committed for the monitoring and
evaluation study (para. 2.46) and part of the consultant services.
3.15       Technical assistance will also be necessary to help RD, STD and
MTD carry out the expanded road construction, maintenance and training pro-
grams. The development program includes about Kb 3.2 million for 170 man-
years of technical assistance, including engineers for the following: for the
Materials Branch to assist in implementing the strengthening program; for MTD,
STD and the Maintenance Branch to assist with the expanded maintenance program;
for RARP and GCBP to administer the programs and the construction units; and
for the construction of the Kapengur:La-Lodwar road.  Another Kb 2.2 million
for 120 man-years is included in the recurrent budget for established posts
already filled or to be filled by expatriates in the Development, Maintenance,
Materials and Special Projects Branches of RD, and in MTD and STD. Technical
assistance has been estimated at US$50,000 per man-year; this is regarded as
a suitable average for all the expatriates funded from the various external
agencies, including ODM, NORAD, KfW, France, CIDA, SIDA, Switzerland, the
Netherlands, ILO, USAID, Japan, and DANIDA.  About 90% of these expatriates
are already in position or are in the process of being recruited by the
external agencies; funding for the remaining 10% of technical assistance
should pose no problem.
Maintenance Program
3.16      MOW has drawn up a comprehensive maintenance program for the period
1979-1983 amounting to Kb 84.3 million (in constant prices), including both
capital and recurrent expenditures; details are given in Annex II. RD was
assisted by the Bank's Highway Design. and Maintenance Model (HDM) (Annex II,
para. 4) in determining appropriate maintenance standards. The program will
be an expansion of the effort to improve maintenance of the classified network
which was begun under Cr. 224-KE (para. 2.33 and Annex I). That project
financed equipment to maintain 19,000 km of roads, while the rest of the
network was maintained with an inadequate supply of old equipment. The
present program, however, would provide for maintenance of the entire network
besides catching up with a backlog of resealing work on the paved roads (para.
2.34). The maintenance program also includes part of the backlog of regravel-
ling work, while the GCBP will handle roads needing substantial rehabilitation
in addition to regravelling. Road maintenance targets are included in Annex
V, T-8.



- 28 -
3.17       The maintenance program includes capital expenditure of K6 11.2
million for workshops, stores, workshop equipment and tools, road maintenance
vehicles and equipment, and an initial inventory of spare parts for MTD.
The inventory of spare parts will enable MTD to set up its own stores and
major spare parts holdings to supply individual items as and when ilecessary.
MTD plans to employ consultants to assist with setting up its own spare
parts supply system. At present, MTD obtains the bulk of its spare parts
through contracted suppliers who often experience difficulties in providing
such items on request since parts not available locally must be ordered from
abroad.   Consequently, the average waiting time for spare parts is six to
nine months (para. 2.39). Included in the capital expenditure is about
KE 5.0 million for additional road maintenance vehicles and equipment necessary
to expand the maintenance program and to catch up on the backlog of maintenance
work; of this, K6 1.6 million of equipment is now being procured.
3.18       Net recurrent expenditures for the Maintenance Branch and MTD have
been estimated at KS 73.1 million throughout the Plan period (Annex V, T-7)
including Kb 10.6 million to replace the existing vehicle fleet; of this,
K6 2.4 million of equipment is already being procured. MTD's current equip-
ment rental rates, which have been used in calculating this estimate, will be
reviewed under the proposed project. Agreement was obtained from Government
that equipment funding rates would not be increased, in real terms, until
after the review of the funding system (para. 2.41 and 4.01 (e)). Although
real maintenance expenditures will show no increase in 1979, the proposed road
maintenance budgetary target for 1980-1983 shows a real increase of 30% over
the budget for 1976-1979 and is regarded as sufficient to maintain all class-
ified roads. While estimated vehicle and equipment expenditures are very
tentative owing to MTD's poor records on the use and condition of the fleet,
the overall total should not be significantly different, although the amount
needed each year may be. Hence, some adjustment on an annual basis may be
necessary after these costs are recalculated during the course of the program
on the basis of the inventory of plant and vehicles to be undertaken (para.
3.25). Government is already negotiating with various bilateral agencies to
finance development and a small part of recurrent expenditures for maintenance
vehicle and equipment requirements.
Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety Program
3.19       The Highway Sector Development Plan includes funds to improve
traffic law enforcement and road safety (paras. 2.10-2.11). K6 1.5 million
will be provided for the construction of five fully-equipped vehicle inspec-
tion centers (including static weighbridges) and the establishment of ten
additional police patrol bases, including three electronic mobile weighbridges
and at least one ambulance for each patrol base. KL 2.4 million in recurrent
funds will be provided to operate both existing and new facilities in order
to increase vehicle inspection and enforcement of vehicle regulations. These
measures should help to decrease the incidence of road accidents caused by
unsafe commercial vehicles. Toward the same goal, police patrols will be
expanded to enforce traffic laws more effectively, especially control of



- 29 -
speeding, drunk and dangerous driving, etc. The ambulances provided for the
accidents by transporting the injured to hospital as quickly as possible.
Other Buildings and Equipment
3.20      Substantial amounts were spent on buildings during the last two plan
periods, and relatively little will be necessary to meet the requirements of
the proposed plan. Still needed are additional workshops for the Maintenance
Program and the buildings described above for the Traffic Law Enforcement and
Road Safety Program. The costs of these buildings are included under the two
programs. The Sector Plan would also provide the Materials Branch with vehi-
cles and equipment costing about Kb 1.1 million to permit the Branch: (a) to
carry out more efficiently the necessary research and part of the detailed
engineering for the paved road strengthening program, and (b) to monitor mate-
rials used in road maintenance and construction to ensure compliance with
MOW's materials standards.
D. Assessment
Institutional Capacity
3.21      MOW has been able to build up an effective institution after its
reorganization in 1970 and has developed a good planning and training capa-
city. Even during the reorganization of MOW during the Plan period 1970-74,
the Ministry carried out a large construction program and was able to build up
a good maintenance organization as part of the Highway Maintenance Project
(para. 2.33). More recently, it has shown flexibility in the course of
establishing two large force account programs (RARP and GCBP) which neces-
sitated both changing and innovating work systems. Although additional new
staff will be required, mainly for the Road Construction Program, Government
expects to meet this need through existing training programs (Annex V, T-3)
and technical assistance where necessary. MOW is attempting to carry out
more of its own design and supervision work, although it will still be depen-
dent on consultants for much of the work. The entire Highway Sector Plan will
be monitored and evaluated by RD which is already in the process of setting up
a special unit to monitor the RARP and part of the GCBP (para. 2.46). Govern-
ment agreed on a general sector condition that physical completion targets
will be met for maintenance, strengthening, reconstruction, construction and
improvement of roads in various classes (Annex V, T-8) during 1980-82
(para. 3.44 (e)). Government also agreed that, prior to the commencement
of each of the fiscal years 1980-82, Government will afford the
Bank the opportunity to review and comment on the upcoming year's work program
and related financing plan for the highway sector, including the Traffic Law
Enforcement and Road Safety Program, and will provide sufficient resources to
carry out the annual work program (para. 4.01(f)). The Bank would be entitled
to suspend approval of subsequent subprojects if there were major departures
from the Highway Sector Development Plan unless otherwise agreed between the
Bank and the Government (para. 4.01 (g)).



- 30 -
Road Construction Program for Strengthening, Reconstruction,
Upgrading and Construction
3.22      The Road Construction Program (paras. 3.06-3.13) is a reasonable
planning target and, unlike previous programs, has been formulated on the
basis of economic criteria. Almost all of the first year's projects and the
major part of the second year's projects are underway. The overall construc-
tion targets (Annex V, T-8) for trunk and primary roads are realistic in
view of RD's actual accomplishments in 1970-74. Although targets for second-
ary, minor and rural access roads are higher than in previous plan periods,
both the RARP and GCBP, which will carry out the major part of this work, have
overcome initial implementation problems and will be fully established in
calendar year 1980. Careful attention will be given to identifying priorities
within the program, so that any shortfall in implementation capacity will be
accommodated by the deletion of lower priority items (para. 3.32).
3.23      A summary of the lengths of road to be completed during the Plan
period is given in Annex V, T-8 and detailed in Annex V, T-9. The strengthen-
ing, reconstruction, and upgrading to bitumen standard of about 1,360 km of
new trunk and primary roads are expected to be executed by large international
or local contractors (para. 3.46). Improvement of approximately 790 km of
trunk, primary, secondary and minor roads could be executed by small local
constractors because of the small size of contracts and scattered nature
of works. The remaining part of the road program, involving the upgrading of
about 1,380 km of trunk, primary, secondary and minor roads, is a continuation
of ongoing projects which are being executed by force account. In addition,
about 13,100 km are being constructed or improved by force account under the
ongoing RARP and GCBP.
3.24      With the exception of about 200 km of roads to be constructed or
upgraded, plus all roads in the strengthening program, detailed engineer-
ing for the road construction program is completed, ongoing or is only in
need of revision to comply with RD's proposed design manual. Detailed en-
gineering has been completed to satisfactory standards for all roads included
in the first year of the Plan and for all roads in the second year, except for
those included in the strengthening program. Detailed engineering for the
latter projects should begin shortly. Work on these roads cannot be delayed
until the following year because of their serious deteriorating condition.
Cost estimates for the projects still requiring detailed engineering have
been reviewed in detail and found to be reasonable.
Maintenance Program
3.25      Successful implementation of the Road Maintenance Program (paras.
3.16-3.18) heavily depends on the ability of MOW to maintain adequate avail-
ability and utilization rates for vehicles and equipment. With this as an
objective, MOW has already improved the management of MTD which subsequently
drew up a program which includes:
(a) increasing the numbers of mechanics and establishing more
supervisory posts;



- 31 -
(b) providing more provincial and district workshops and workshop
tools and equipment;
(c) setting up a decentralized supply system for major and often
needed spareparts, which will require an initial inventory;
(d)  establishing speedier and less costly procurement procedures
for spare parts;
(e) improving the cost-accounting system;
(f) standardization of vehicles and equipment on a provincial
basis;
(g) rehabilitating economically reparable vehicles and equipment
as well as replacing those that are no longer economically
reparable;
(h) undertaking an inventory of spare parts; and
(i) provision of adequate recurrent funds.
Due to the confused state of MTD's records, it has not been possible to
ascertain the exact numbers of vehicles and equipment that will need to be
either replaced each year or rehabilitated. However, based on the information
available, a tentative estimate was included in the program. MTD has begun
to prepare a limited inventory of all maintenance vehicles and equipment, and
Government has agreed that the inventory will be completed by June 30, 1980
(para. 4.01(c)). The completion of the inventory will be included in the
Funding Scheme study (para. 2.41).
3.26      The program's successful implementation also depends on the alloca-
tion of adequate funds for road maintenance. In the past, when Government
faced financial difficulties, road maintenance recurrent funds were cut back
(para. 2.35). However, since maintenance is of the highest economic priority
and should be undertaken as planned under the proposed project, Government
agreed on a general sector condition that targets for annual recurrent funds,
as detailed in Annex V, T-7, will be met during 1980-82 (para. 3.44 (f)).
The amounts specified reflect 1979 price levels and will be adjusted to
take account of subsequent price increases. The proposed increase
in the maintenance budget will provide sufficient funds to initially improve
maintenance to a minimum acceptable standard and to catch up with part of the
backlog of work (para. 3.16) by 1981, then to increase maintenance standards
more gradually thereafter. The present organization of the Maintenance Branch
is basically sound, and with the few additional staff recommended (para.
2.35), it should have the capability to satisfactorily implement the program.
So that the Branch can begin to monitor its maintenance activities more
effectively than at present (para. 2.37), Government agreed on a genera:L
sector condition that by September 30, 1980 the Maintenance Branch will
establish a pilot cost-accounting system satisfactory to the Bank in one
province in order to draw up an adequate cost-accounting system that can
eventually be extended to all provinces (paras. 2.37, 3.44(g)).



- 32 -
Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety Program
3.27      The Traffic Operations Branch under the Traffic Police is well
organized, and staffing levels are satisfactory. The budget for the Road
Traffic Police is the responsibility of two ministries: the Office of the
President for patrol bases and the MPC for vehicle inspection centers. In the
past, the Traffic Police have encountered difficulties in obtaining sufficient
recurrent funds to run the patrol bases and inspection centers (para. 2.10);
Government therefore agreed on a general sector condition that targets for
annual recurrent funds, as detailed in Annex V, T-7, will be met during
1980-82 (para. 3.44 (f)). Additional staff for the five new vehicle
inspection centers and ten police patrol bases will be trained in existing
schools in Nairobi. Construction of the proposed vehicle inspection centers
and traffic police bases will be carried out over a four-year period by local
contractors, since the relatively low cost of the buildings scattered through-
out the country would not attract international bidding.
Financial Feasibility
Overall Fiscal Implications
3.28      Planned capital and recurrent expenditure on the Road Construction
and Maintenance Programs during the Plan period will represent an increase
of about 25% (in constant prices) over the last Plan period. This represents
nearly 9% of total Government expenditures which compares with about 6% in
Tanzania, 16% in Madagascar and Ethiopia, and 14% in Botswana. Total highway
development expenditures will increase by nearly 30% over the preceding plan
period, largely due to the reconstruction and strengthening of 772 km of trunk
roads which accounts for 21% of the total road construction program. In
spite of this increase, the proposed level of capital expenditure on roads
represents the same proportion of total Government capital expenditure as in
the last Plan period, i.e., 16%.
3.29      Recurrent expenditure for road maintenance shows a real increase of
about 20% over the last Plan period, and will represent about 3.5% of total
Government recurrent expenditure. This increase is in line with Government's
central objective of preserving and making more use of existing infrastructure.
The proposed recurrent expenditure for roads is equal to over a third of the
amount projected for highway capital expenditures.



- 33 -
Financing of the Road Program
3.30      On the basis of present indications, the financing plan /1 (including
contingencies) for development expenditures proposed in the Highway Sector
Development Plan may be summarized as follows:
External Funds /2                                        KS million
Committed                                              53.5
Agreed in Principle                                    48
Highly Likely                                          10.5
Possible                                               44
Local Funds (net of taxes and duties)                       71       (115) /3
Total                    227
/1   Includes only estimated expenditures during Plan period and not
estimated expenditures which fall outside of the Plan period.
/2   Where exact amount of financing i's not known, 100% coverage of all
foreign costs is assumed.
/3   Figure in parentheses indicates l-ocal funds required if none of the
"possible" external funds materialize.
3.31      With the proposed Bank loan, financing for almost all subprojects
from 1978/79 to 1980/81 is committed or agreed in principle, either by ex-
ternal agencies or Government itself. Agencies which have committed funds to
ongoing subprojects include the Bank Group (Road Maintenance, Fifth Highway
and Rural Access Roads Projects), the African Development Bank (AfDB), NORAD,
ODM, Japan, CIDA, USAID, KfW, DANIDA, the Netherlands and the European Ec:onomic
Community (EEC).  The Bank Group, KfW and AfDB have also committed funds to
new subprojects. Agreement in principle to finance other new subprojects has
been obtained from the EEC and AfDB; the proposed Bank loan is also included
in this category.l/ Included in the "highly likely" category is further assist-
ance from NORAD, ODM and AfDB.  Donors whose interest is reflected in the
"possible" category include the EEC, CIDA, Japan and ODM, although part of the
funds in this category may be disbursed, outside of the Plan period.
3.32      Government has allocated over KU  17 million for development ex--
penditure during 1979. Government's total contribution is presently pro jected
to range from Kb 71 million to Kb 115 million, or 31% to 51% of estimated
development expenditures under the Plan, depending on how much of the "possible"
external financing actually materializes. These projections do not, however,
take full account of external financing that may be obtained during the
1/   Not all of the proposed US$90 mil]lion has been included in this category,
since part of the loan will be disbursed outside of the Plan period.



- 34 -
entire Plan period, since additional foreign funds will probably be available
for the last two years of the Plan, but have not as yet been identified. In
addition, the Government will be financing nearly all recurrent expenditure,
estimated at KS 91 million net of taxes, with the exception of technical
assistance and Dme maintenance equipment.
Economic Analysis
3.33      As explained in a report on highway sector lending which was dis-
tributed to the Board of Executive Directors in 1975, 1/ the Bank Group does
not regard it as essential that rates of return be calculated for each sub-
project in a proposed sector program prior to loan approval. Rather, the Bank
should be satisfied as to "the adequacy of the criteria used to appraise the
technical and economic feasibility of projects within the program".
3.34      The road construction program proposed in the Highway Development
Plan was arrived at after extensive economic analysis (Annex III). Initial
screening was carried out on a large number of new projects in order to obtain
a short list of projects which were subsequently evaluated to determine prior-
ities. Projects not found economically justified were dropped from the pro-
gram. The economic analysis included estimation of net present values, in-
ternal rates of return and cost-benefit ratios. Annex III contains estimated
rates of return for new projects. Further economic analysis of each project
will be undertaken prior to construction in order to include any refinements
that may be necessary. The rates of return for projects included in
the Sector Plan (both new and ongoing, although five ongoing projects were
not evaluated) range from 10% to over 100%, with the majority of projects well
over 12%, the minimum acceptable rate of return for Bank-financed subprojects
(para 3.45).
3.35      With the exception of the five projects mentioned above, all ongoing
projects were evaluated prior to construction. In the future, all projects
will be subjected to economic analysis.
Construction, Strengthening and Upgrading Programs
Trunk and Primary Roads
3.36      Benefits of trunk and primary roads to be strengthened, reconstructed
and upgraded have generally been evaluated on the basis of vehicle operating
and road maintenance cost savings and time savings where applicable. The
paved road strengthening program has some of the highest economic rates of
return, varying from 17 to 100% or more, and with most projects well over 25%.
A recent analysis done by Bank staff on the economics of road strengthening
indicates that the road roughness levels found on the roads included in the
program have already exceeded the level at which strengthening is economically
optimal, and any further delay would result in even higher economic costs than
at present. Traffic on these roads varies from 650 to 8,400 vpd.
1/   "Highway Sector Lending," Sec M75-487, 1975.



- 35 -
3.37      Trunk road projects for reconstruction and upgrading to bitumen
standard are expected to yield rates of return ranging from 14% to 39%, with
most in excess of 25%. Traffic levels vary from 300 to 6,600 vpd. Rates of
return on the other three trunk roads for upgrading to all-weather standard
all exceed 40%. Rates of return for two trunk road projects are, however,
still uncertain.  The feasibility study for the trunk road to Sudan indicates
the optimal design standard as one-lane paved standard, with a rate of return
of 10%, although the design standard is still under discussion between Govern-
ment and the likely financing agencies, EEC and NORAD.  In addition, the
feasibility study for the trunk road to Ethiopia is still being revised;
upgrading of this road is scheduled for the last year of the Plan.
3.38       Primary roads included for upgrading to bitumen standard are
expected to yield rates of return of 10 to 29%, with traffic levels between
300 and 860 vpd. Primary roads to be improved to all-weather standard have
rates of return of 14 to 88%, with traffic levels ranging from 80 to 180 vpd.
One road with a rate of return of 5% has been delayed to the last year of the
Plan, and its improvement will depend on tourist development in the project
area.
Secondary and Minor Roads
3.39      With the exception of roads in the service center program (para.
3.12), most secondary and minor road upgrading projects are already ongoing,
with the bulk of work undertaken by the GCBP. The GCBP was evaluated over two
years ago by consultants (Berger, US) who estimated a rate of return of over
10%. Roads to be constructed for service centers will assist in their devel-
opment, which is a policy already encouraged by the Bank. The economic eval-
uation of all roads to be included in the program will be based on vehicle
operating and maintenance cost savings.
Rural Access Roads
3.40      The RARP has already been evaluated by the Bank Group under the
Rural Access Roads Project which included the financing of eight construction
units and a monitoring and evaluation study. The rate of return for the
whole program was originally estimated at over 12%. Since appraisal, about
4,000 km of roads have been evaluated in all 23 districts covered by the pro-
gram. Estimated rates of return exceeded 20%, based on construction and
maintenance costs and an assessment of the potential agricultural benefits of
each road. Measures are also now being taken to begin the study to monitor
and evaluate the countrywide impact of rural access roads as well as the
effects of roads improved under the GCBP in the western region.
Maintenance Program
3.41      In the course of developing the proposed road maintenance program,
the maintenance levels (including grading frequencies, regravelling cycles,
amounts of patching and resealing for each class of road) were examined on
an incremental basis to ensure their economic justification (Annex II). Rates
of return and benefit/cost ratios have been estimated by the Bank for three



- 36 -
major components of the road network: earth, gravel and paved roads. This
analysis was based on a comparison of proposed maintenance levels and present
levels which were defined on the basis of the existing level of equipment
holdings and current equipment availability and utilization rates. The eco-
nomic benefits and costs were computed, respectively, as savings ir vehicle
operating costs and road maintenance costs. Rates of return for maintaining
earth, gravel and paved roads have all been estimated at over 100%, and (net)
benefit/cost ratios are 7.2:1, 6.3:1 and 5.5:1, respectively.
E. The Project
Description
3.42        The project comprises new commitments entered into during the
middle three years, 1980-82, of the Highway Sector Development Plan, plus
ongoing projects already committed during that period. The proposed Bank loan
of US$90 million (Kh 33.7 million) would support new commitments to commence
during the three-year period; the total amount of these new commitments
is estimated at US$277 million (KI 104 million), covering road construction,
maintenance and traffic law enforcement and road safety. About 99% of the
proposed loan is for foreign costs. Although all of the loan will be
committed during 1980-82, disbursements will continue to 1985 in order for
subprojects financed under the loan to be completed. The total amount of
ongoing projects already committed is estimated at KE 97 million (US$260
million) for the 1980-82 period; in addition, an estimated KE 69 million
(US$184 million) will be required for recurrent expenditure. To ensure
that the Plan goes ahead in a balanced way, the Bank will finance a substantial
portion of new projects (as no additional financing of ongoing projects,
other than for detailed engineering, is envisaged), provided certain general
sector and subproject conditions are being met (paras 3.44-3.46). The
following general apportionment of the proposed loan is recommended, although
funds could be shifted from one category to another depending on the pattern
of implementation. Commitments would be made in the amounts shown for each
of the middle three years, 1980-82, of the Sector Development Plan, subject
to the above-mentioned conditions.



- 37 -
1980    1981      1982     Total      %
(US$ '000)
(1)  Strengthening of existing           7,900  30,700    1,800   40,400        45
paved roads
(2)  Reconstruction of existing         24,700      -        -      24,700     27
paved roads
(3)  Upgrading of existing earth
roads to all-weather standard         -     2,600    1,800    4,400        5
(4)  Rural Access Roads Program            -        -      2,500    2,500       3
(5)  Maintenance Program                 3,200   4,400    2,600   10,200        11
(6)  Traffic law enforcement
and road safety                       500     500       500    1,500       2
(7)  Technical assistance and
consultant services                 4,400   1,900       -       6,300      7
Total                        402700  40,100    9,200   90,000    100
All costs include physical and price contingencies and exclude taxes and.
duties.
3.43      Subprojects which the Bank will finance have been tentatively
identified but are subject to change depending on other sources of finance.
It is expected, however, that commitments will be made in accordance with the
above schedule.  The Bank's participation in the strengthening of MTD under
the Maintenance Program and the Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety
Program has already been identified in some detail. The Bank will assist
with implementation of MTD's comprehensive workshop construction program, the
establishment of MTD's supplies system, additions to MTD's fleet of maintenance
equipment (depending on financing available from other sources) so that the
road maintenance program can be expan,ded (Annex II), and possibly with
financing of deferred maintenance, including resealing and regravelling.
Bank assistance will also be provided. for the construction/improvement of
five vehicle inspection centers and ten police patrol bases, including three
electronic mobile weighbridges and ten police ambulances. The Bank's parti-
cipation in the road construction prcgram has been tentatively identified
and will be finalized during implementation of the program. Government has
already confirmed a list of subprojects to be financed by the Bank during
1980 (para. 4.02 (a)). .
General Sector Conditions
3.44      The Bank will require MOW and other subsector agencies to meet., on
a continuing basis, conditions aimed at protecting the existing road system



- 38 -
and ensuring balanced implementation of the proposed Highway Sector Develop-
ment Plan during the period, 1980-82. These conditions require satisfactory
progress during the three-year period in:
(a) setting up by January 1, 1980 an inter-ministerial
committee on road/rail coordination (para. 1.15);
(b) undertaking a study, to be carried out by consultants
by January 1, 1981, of road-user charges and axle load
limits; a program for the implementation of the study's
recommendations will be submitted to the Bank for its
comments (paras. 1.15, 2.08);
(c) meeting projected staffing and training requirements
for MOW, based on programs to be agreed between Govern-
ment and the Bank by September 30, 1979 (paras. 2.17,
2.21, 2.40);
(d) improving the efficiency of MTD (para. 2.39);
(e) meeting physical completion targets for maintenance,
strengthening, reconstruction, construction and
improvement of roads in various classes (para. 3.21
and Annex V, T-8);
(f) meeting targets for annual recurrent funds for (i) road
maintenance and (ii) operation of police patrol bases and
vehicle inspection centers (paras. 3.26-3.27, Annex V,
T-7); and.
(g) establishing by September 30, 1980 a pilot cost-
accounting system satisfactory to the Bank for main-
tenance activities in one province in order to draw
up an adequate cost-accounting system which can even-
tually be extended to all provinces (para. 3.26).
Government agreed that if satisfactory progress is not made in meeting these
general sector conditions, the Bank would be entitled to suspend approval of
subsequent subprojects submitted for financing until satisfactory corrective
action had been taken (para. 4.01(h)). The submission of Progress Reports
required by the Bank to monitor compliance with the conditions (Annex IV) was
also confirmed by Government (para. 4.02(b)).
Conditions for Subprojects
3.45      Conditions or criteria for subprojects to be financed by Bank should
be similar to those used in project lending, and have been agreed with Govern-
ment (para. 4.01(i)). Before committing funds for road strengthening, re-
construction, construction or upgrading subprojects, the Bank will require:
(a) completion of detailed engineering, together with contract drawings and
documents, including specifications which should be satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) a feasibility study, satisfactory to the Bank, showing a rate of return



- 39 -
of at least 12%; (c) proposed subprojects shall be of the highest priority for
which financing is not otherwise available; and (d) a description of procure-
ment procedures, estimates of foreign and local costs, and an estimatecd
disbursement schedule satisfactory to the Bank. The only exceptions to these
criteria will be rural access roads, for which financing under the sector ioaui
will be subject to the same conditions as under the Rural Access Roads Project
(Cr. 651-KE), and all-weather roads for which detailed engineering will not De
required since these roads will not be constructed to engineered standards.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and the Government, all subproject
proposals should be submitted to the Bank not later than J'une 30, 1981.
Procurement
3.46      All Bank-financed subprojects for road strengthening, reconst:ruction
and upgrading to bituminous paved standard will be awarded. to contractors
after international competitive biddling (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines for Procurement.  For purposes of bid comparison, a preference of- 7-112%
would be applied to bids from qualif.ied domestic contractors. Bank-financed
subprojects for improvement of earth roads to all-weather standard, road
resealing and regravelling (deferred maintenance (para. 2.34)) would ei.ther be
awarded to small local contractors on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, or would be carried out by force
account. For the rural access roads, construction would be carried out by
MOW's RARP road construction units; these procurement procedures woul'd be the
same as those followed under the Rural Access Roads Project.  Equipment
purchases proposed for Bank financing will be agreed with the Bank in
advance; procurement would be through ICB unless the Bank agrees with
the Government that other procedures are justified due to requirements
for standardization. For purposes of bid comparison, qualified domestic
manufacturers would be granted a preference of 15% of the CIF price, or the
existing duty, whichever is lower. Procurement of off-the-shelf single items
would follow standard Government procurement procedures and conditions
which are acceptable to the Bank; the total amount of such purchases should
not exceed US$150,000. For road maintenance vehicles and equipment, thle Bank
will review plans for rehabilitation and use of existing equipment before
agreeing to finance road maintenance equipment (para. 3.25).  Contracts
for construction of all workshops and buildings financed by the Bank will be
awarded to local contractors after local competitive bidding, since the
relatively low cost of buildings scattered throughout the country would not
attract international bidding. Government has confirmed the scope of consul-
tant services/technical assistance to be recruited with Bank financing
(para. 4.02 (c)).  Agreement was reached that consultants and experts f'inanced
under the loan will be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; agreement was also obtained onl specific terms of reference for the
detailed review of the funding system and completion of the inventory cf the
maintenance equipment fleet, the study of road-user charges and axle load
limits, the establishment of a pilot: maintenance cost-accounting system
(para. 4.01 (j)), and for a consultant to set up the spare parts supply system
for MTD (para. 4.02 (d)).



- 40 -
Iiplementation
3.47      The loan will be channelled through three ministries:  MOW for the
Road Construction and Maintenance Programs, and the Office of the President
and tPC for the Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety Program. As noted
earlier, the particular subprojects to be financed by the loan will be deter-
mined in response to applications made after loan approval. Since at this
stage, the timing and contents of these applications are not known, no com-
prehensive implementation schedule can be given. However, because Bank
participation in the strengthening of MTD and the Traffic Law Enforcement and
Road Safety Program has been identified (para. 3.43), a detailed implementa-
tion schedule covering the middle three years of the Highway Sector Develop-
ment Plan for the above components was confirmed with Government (Annex V, C-2)
(para. 4.02(e)). Agreement was also reached on the submission of a completion
report, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, promptly after completion of the
project (para. 4.01(k)).
Disbursement
3.48      Disbursements from the Loan Account would cover:
(a) 65% of total costs for all road construction contracts,
rural access roads, and resealing and regravelling works;
(b) 30% of the total costs (estimated foreign exchange costs)
of construction of workshops and other buildings;
(c) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of all vehicles,
equipment and spare parts including workshop tools and
equipment, or 65% of local expenditures; and
(d) 100% of foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
and consultant services.
Retroactive financing of up to US$1,500,000 is recommended for expenditures
incurred after September 1, 1978 to cover the costs of consultant services,
in particular for detailed engineering, and technical assistance services. A
tentative disbursement schedule is shown in Annex V, T-ll.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      Government and the Bank have agreed on the following:
(a) the re-establishment and subsequent maintenance of the road
inventory by June 30, 1980 (para. 2.04);
(b)  the inclusion in RD's staffing program of additional road
maintenance and design engineers and the filling of
such posts by September 30, 1980 (paras. 2.19, 2.35);



- 41 -
(c) the completion by technical assistance or consultants of the
inventory of MTD's maintenance fleet by June 30, :1980 and
subsequent review of MTD's 'Equipment Funding Scheme by
January 1, 1981, the recommendations of which will be
submitted to the Bank for comments (paras. 2.41 and 3.25 ;
(d) the road strengthening program for fiscal years 1983
through 1986 will be prepared by December 31, 1981 and
subsequently reviewed by Government and the Bank (para.
3.08);
(e) equipment funding rates would not be increased in real
terms, until after the review of the funding system (para.
3.18);
(f) prior to the commencement of each of the fiscal years
1980-82, Government will afford the Bank the oppor-
tunity to review and comment on the upcoming year's work
program and related financing plan for the highway sector,
including the Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety
Program, and will provide sufficient resources to carry out
the annual work program (para. 3.21);
(g) the Bank would be entitled to suspend approval of subsequent
subprojects if there were major departures from the Highway
Sector Development Plan unless otherwise agreed between the
Bank and the Government (para. 3.21);
(h) if satisfactory progress is not made in meeting the general
sector conditions, the Bank would be entitled to suspend
approval of subsequent subprojects submitted for financing
until satisfactory corrective action had been taken (para.
3.44);
(i) criteria for accepting subprojects for Bank financing
(paras. 3.45-3.46);
(j) consultants and experts financed under the loan will
be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, and specific terms of reference for the detailed review
of the funding system and completion of the inventory of the
maintenance equipment fleet, the study of road-user charges
and axle load limits, and establishment of a highway maintenance
cost-accounting system have been agreed with Government
(para. 3.46); and



- 42 -
(k) the submission of a completion report, in a form satis-
factory to the Bank, promptly after completion of the
project (para. 3.47).
4.02      As set out in the Agreed Minutes of Understanding recorded during
loan negotiations, agreement was also reached on:
(a) subprojects to be financed by the Bank during 1980 (para. 3.43);
(b) progress reporting requirements (para. 3.44);
(c) the scope of consultant services/technical assistance to be
recruited with Bank financing (para. 3.46);
(d) terms of reference for a consultant to set up the spare parts
supply system for MTD (para. 3.46); and
(e) a detailed implementation schedule for the strengthening
of MTD and the Traffic Law Enforcement and Road Safety
Program during 1980-82 (para. 3.47).
4.03      With the agreements outlined above, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank sector loan of US$90 million to the Republic of
Kenya, for 21 years including a 5-1/2 year grace period.
March 6, 1979



- 43 -
ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF KENYA                Page 1 of 3
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Past -ink Group-Financed Trmnsport Projects in Kenya
Loan/     Amount                                                   Present
Year    Credit   (US$'000)                F'roject Components              Status
1955    Loan  1/    24.0      Made to the East African High Commission  Complel:ed
110-EA                to partially cover 1954-57 development    in 1957
plan for the East African Railways and
East African Harbours Corporations.
1960    Loan          5.6     Agricultural project which included          Completed
256-KE                construction of approximately 910 km        in 1964i
of feeder roads (Loan guaranteed by the
United Kingdom).
1964    Credit        4.5     Engineering, improvement, and construc-   Completed
70-KE                 tion of approximately 315 km of trunk       in 1969
roads.
1965    Credit        3.0     Improvement of approximately 1,400 km        Completed
77-KE                 of tea roads.                               in 1970
1965    Loan 1/      38.0     Made to East African Common Service          Completed
428-Er                Authority to finance a portion of the       in 1971
foreign exchmange costs of the 1965-68
development program of the East Africa
Railways and Harbours Administration
(of the US$33 million, 5.6 million
were for minor port development and the
remainder for railways).
1967    Credit        5.3     Engineering and construction of about        Completed
104-KE                820 km of sugar roads.                      in 1971
1968    Credit       10.7     Construction of approximately 460 km         Completed
120-KE                of trunk roads.                             in 1972
PPAR#84 6
issued
1969    Loan         23.5     (i) Reconstruction of about 460 km of        Completed
639-KE                    feeder roads;                           in 1975
(ii) reconstruction and strengthening of   PPAR#2062
about 136 km of trunk roads;            issued
(iii) construction of 36 km of main roads
and 350 km of feeder field access
roads for the Phase II sugar roads
program;
(iv) improvement to gravel standard of
about 650 km of settlement roads;
(v) consultant services for supervision
of construction and detailed
engineering;
(vi) a study of the organization of MOW.



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Loan/    Amount                                               Present
Year    Credit  (US$'000)               Project Components            Status
1969    Loan 1/      35.0     Made to the East African Harbours    Substantially
638-EA                Corp.  The project elements for the  completed
Mombasa Port were two general cargo
berths, a bulk cement wharf and port
operating equipment.
1970    Credit       12.6      (i) Implementation of the reorgani-  Substantially
224-KE                    zation of MOW through a staffing completed
and training program;
(ii) purchase of road maintenance and
workshop equipment including
spare parts;
(iii) construction and improvement of
regional workshops, offices and
road maintenance camps;
(iv) training of maintenance personnel;
(v) construction of additional train-
ing center facilities and purchase
of training equipment; and
consultant services.
1970    Loan 1/      42.4     Made to the East African Railways    Substantially
674-EA                Corp., it includes:                     completed
(i) improvement of track, signalling
and telecommunications;
(ii) construction of one marshalling
yard; additional crossing stations,
one diesel locomotive shed, one
wagon ferry terminal and staff
housing;
(iii) replacement and rehabilitation of
lake vessels;
(iv) acquisition of freight wagons,
spare parts, workshop equipment
and road vehicles; and
(v) studies of the economic feasibi-
lity of certain railway lines
and services.
1972    Credit       22.0      (i) Construction, restoration and    Substantially
276-KE                    improvement of about 71 km of    completed
trunk roads; 158 km of feeder
roads, 995 km of tea collection
roads, and 429 km of settlement
access roads;
(ii) engineering services and super-
vision of construction of above
roads.



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
Loan/     Amount                                                 Present
Year    Credit   (US$'000)              Project Components                Status
1972    Loan 1/      26.5     Made to the East African Harbours           Su7stantially
865-EA                Corp.  The mnain project elements for    completed
the Mombasa Port were:
(i) back-of-port works on the two
berths financed under loan 638-EA,
a tug berth, cold storage facili-
ties; and
(ii) rehabilitation of older facilities.
1972    Loan         29.0      (i) Development of first phase of a        Substantially
826-KE                    master plan for new passenger and   completed.
freight terminal area, related air- New airport
craft operational areas and auxi-   opened for
liary buildings for Nairobi           business
International Airport;                March 14, 1978.
(ii) technical assistance and training
to deveLop modern management and
accounting methods for Kenya
Government's Aerodrome Department.
1973    Loan         29.0      (i) Improvement of Nairobi Airport         Completion
932-KE                    road to dual carriage-way              presently
standardls;                           estimated for
(ii) construction of approx. 315 km of   July 1979.
roads s,erving agricultural areas;
(iii) construction or improvement of
about 288 km of sugar collection
or access tracks;
(iv) technical assistance.
1975    Loan         20.0     Provision of a 14-inch 452 km long oil  Substantially
1133-KE               pipeline with a 2 km lateral line to    completed.
the Embakasi Airport, 4 pumping           Pipeline in
stations with staff quarters, two          comimercial
maintenance depots, product receiving,  operation
storage and transfer depots, staff         since Feb. 78.
training, tele-control and telemetry
systems and other miscellaneous
ancillaries.
1976    Loan          8.0     Assistance in the implementation of         In progress.
1305-KE               RARP consisting of:
Credit                (i) equipping and operating 8 construc-
651-KE                    tion units for 3 years each;
(ii) implementing an expansion of the
highways training programs;
(iii) evaluating and monitoring the RARP;
and
(iv) maintenance of roads constructed
under the RARP.
1/ Made to all three members of the East African Community, therefore, loan amount
includes funds for Kenya and other two countries.
March 1979



- 46 -
ANNEX II
REPUBLIC OF KENYA                      Page 1 of 6
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Road Maintenance Program
A. Background
1.       Since 1974 road maintenance standards have declined.  Only 162 of about
4,300 km of paved roads were resealed in 1977, compared to 537 km in 1974. In
1977 only 629 km of regravelling was carried out, representing a decrease of
77% from 1974. The deterioration in road maintenance performance can be
attributed to two major causes: (i) between 1974 and 1978 maintenance expendi-
tures did not keep pace with inflation, declining by 5% p.a. in real terms,
causing maintenance work to come to a halt for two to four months a year; and
(ii) declining availability and utilization rates of maintenance equipment
since 1974, resulting in about a 45% reduction in overall utilization of equipment.
2.       In order to establish a proper framework to overcome these problems, MOW,
with Bank assistance, undertook a study to determine adequate road maintenance
standards upon which a maintenance program was drawn up. Projected road main-
tenance expenditures will increase by 40% by 1981, bringing road maintenance
levels up to a minimum acceptable standard; thereafter, the budget will increase
at a slower rate of 8-9% p.a. to allow the Maintenance Branch to gradually raise
maintenance standards but at a slower pace than during 1980-1981.
3.        The road maintenance program is summarized in this annex along with
the economic analysis of the program.
B. Basis of Analysis
General
4.        The basic approach was first to divide the road network into major
categories, each identified by surface type and range of traffic volumes, and
then determine appropriate road maintenance standards for them. The standards
assumed were based on data collected from the provincial engineers and results
of economic analysis of road maintenance priorities using the Bank's Highway
Design and Maintenance Model.l/ Minimum acceptable standards were determined
which require an increase in the maintenance budget of 40% by 1981, which, taking
account of fixed costs, should double the output by the Maintenance Branch. In
the short term, given the prevailing budget constraints and the pressure of the
additional workload put on both the Maintenance Branch and MTD, this level of
maintenance is acceptable, although not economically optimal. By increasing expend-
iture by a further 30%, economically optimal standards can be obtained (by 1983-84 with
present   budget and productivities projections), although the results of the
USAID study on labor-intensive maintenance methods may lead to increased efficiency
of existing labor resources and could cut costs and thereby make it possible to
achieve economically optimal standards even earlier than anticipated.
1/ C.G. Harral, P.E. Fossberg and T. Watanatada, "Evaluating the Economic
Priority of Highway Maintenance: Some Explanatory Analysis", Transportation
Department, The World Bank, paper presented at the Pan African Conference on
Highway Maintenance, Accra, Ghana, November 1977.



ANNEX II
- 47 -                             Page 2 of 6
5.        The cost -)f road maintenance f-or each road category was computed in
terms of the quanti-ies of work performed to achieve specified standards, the
productivities of ..e road maintenance units and their operating costs, including
equipment funding charges,fuel, other materials and labor. Daily productivities
of maintenance operations were based on the provincial engineers' field observations.
To determine annual productivities of road maintenance units, an average overall
utilization of 900 hours per year was assumed for road maintenance equipment;
this corresponds to 75% availability of Government working time and 60% ut:ilization
of available time.  The past records of MOW's availability and utilization rates
indicate that average utilization declined from about 900 hours in 1974 to 500 hours
in 1977.  Therefore, a return to 900 hours per year utilization appears feasible, con-
sidering that equipment beyond its economic life will be replaced, adequate funds for
fuel and spare parts will be provided,and the availability of spare parts will improve.
Road Maintenance Operations
6.        Maintenance operations were analyzed in the following categories:
Unpaved Roads:
Regravelling - also including regravelling of paved road shoulders
Heavy Grading - including watering and compaction
Light Grading - includes no watering or compaction
Paved Roads:
Patching - including heavy patching (filling pot holes) and light
patching
Resealing
Routine: - including miscellaneous operations such as grass cuttingt
culvert cleaning and replacement, grading of paved road
shoulders, bush or tire dragging, and spot gravel replacement.
7.        The size of maintenance units was minimized so as to decentralize
maintenance operations as much as possible. Thus, except for regravelling and
resealing units, all maintenance operations were assumed to be organized at the
district level. However, because of their indivisibility, three resealing units
were assumed to be organized at headquarters and eight regravelling units at the
provincial level. The frequencies for maintenance operations assumed in the
maintenance program are shown in Table l. Except where stated, frequencies
have been based on the findings of the HDM.
8.        Three resealing units with a total annual capacity of 900 km/year
were assumed to satisfy the normal reseaLing requirements as well as clear the
existing resealing backlog of about 1,000 km during the Plan period. The
annual amount of patching of paved roads was assumed to be 5% of the paved road
surface area per year, of which 2% was light patching and 3% was heavy patCbLing.
This assumption is very tentative and the estimated amounts of patching should be
reviewed again when more information is available from the pilot road maintenance
cost accounting system.



ANNEX II
- 48 -                      Page 3 of 6
9.         According to the HDM, for costs prevailing in Kenya, regravelling of
roads with over 75 vpd is economically justified on roads with average geometric
characteristics and environmental conditions. The 75 vpd threshold traffic level
corresponds to a 11% internal rate of return relative to the alternative of
allowing the road to revert to earth status. However, given the limitations
described in para. 4, as a first step of the maintenance program only roads with
more than 90 vpd will be regravelled during 1980-81 and thereafter roads with
traffic between 75 and 90 vpd will be gradually regravelled. Also, the GCBP will
include some of the gravel roads that have substantially deteriorated.
10.        The grading frequencies assumed for unpaved roads are approximately
one-half to two-thirds the economically optimal frequencies indicated in the
HMD's analysis (7,000 and 6,000 vehicle passes between gradings for gravel roads
and sand-clay earth roads, respectively). However, these reductions would cause
only marginal decreases in the net economic benefits. For roads under the RARP
where traffic should be 10-20 vpd, labor-intensive methods of maintenance without
grading were assumed.
C. Budget Estimates and Workshop and Equipment Requirements
11.        The estimated capital and recurrent expenditures for the road maintenance
program are included in Table 2.
Capital Expenditures and Workshop and Equipment Requirements
12.        The capital expenditures totalling Kb 11.19 million will allow for
the construction of new workshops and purchase of workshop tools, an initial
stock of spare parts, and new road maintenance vehicles and equipment. During
the Plan period MTD will construct 16 six-bay workshops at Kb 110,000 per structure
and 3 sixteen-bay workshops at KE 200,000 per structure and rehabilitate one
existing workshop, altogether totalling Kb 2.44 million (Table 3). Each of the
new workshops will be equipped with a set of tools, estimated at Kb 37,800 each
set (Table 4). In addition, over KE 1.0 million of workshop tools and equipment
are being purchased this year for existing workshops. The program also includes
KE 2.0 million for an initial inventory of spare parts, so as to provide a ready
supply of fast running and major plant and vehicle spares.
13.        Road maintenance vehicles and plant required during the Plan period
total KE 15.6 million, although Kb 4.1 million plant and vehicles are already
on order for 1979. Of the total Kb 15.6 million earmarked during 1979-1983,
about Kb 5.0 million has been estimated to fall under capital expenditure and
the remaining KE 10.6 million under recurrent expenditure, the latter being an
estimate of replacement needs of the existing fleet and the former an estimate
of necessary additions to the existing fleet. Estimated equipment needs are,
however, very tentative, because little information was available at the
time of appraisal on the expected lives of MTD's existing equipment holdings,
such as total number of hours used, maintenance and repairs histories, etc.
It was possible to derive with reasonable accuracy the estimated numbers of



ANNEX II
- 49 -                             Page 4 of 6
plant and vehicles needed to perform road maintenance work to the specified
standards, but difficult to estimate which year replacement of equipment would
be necessary.  The method adopted, which was highly simplified, was lased on
the assumption of a uniform age distribution for each type of equipment presently
held; from this the number of replacemerLts in each year was estimated. The number of
acquisitions of each type of equipment each year was estimated by subtracting the
number surviving from the previous year from-the total number required to carry
out the required maintenance work in that year. The equipment,listed in Table 5,
should be revised again each year during budget preparation; the revised estimates
should be more precisely obtained with information provided by the proposed plant
and vehicle inventory (para 3.25 of text).
Recurrent Expenditures
14.       As compiled in Table 2, the retcurrent expenditure  for road maintenance
includes the budgets of the Maintenance Branch and MTD. The Maintenance Branch's
recurrent budget, in 1979 prices, begins with K6 9.66 million in 1979, rises to
IC6 13.64 million in 1981 (1n260 per km),corresponding to the maintenance st'andards
in Table 1 and then to KE 15.99 million in the last year of the Plan, 1983. The
increase from KU 9.66 million to Kn 15.99 million in four years corresponds to an
average percentage increase of 13.4% per year, which is considerably larger than
the projected increase in Government recurrent expenditures of 8% per year
in real terms during the Plan period.  This reflects Government's increased
emphasis on highway maintenance.
15.       The recurrent expenditures for MTD, shown in Table 2, have been
very tentatively estimated to show an order-of-magnitude relationship between
MTD's operating expenses and revenues MTD obtains from the Maintenance Branlch
and other plant users. As implied in the table, the cash inflows from the
hiring of equipment are expected to cover maintenance and repairs of vehicLes
and plant and purchase of replacement transport. However, the matching of
equipment hire revenues and operating and renewal expenses, which is a major
objective of the Funding Scheme, is based on the present funding rates. Tlhese
rates will be subject to revision accordling to the findings of the proposed
detailed review of MOW's Equipment Funding Scheme (para 2.41 of text).
D. Economic Analysis
16.      An economic analysis was performed using the HDM to estimate the
economic benefits and costs of the proposed road maintenance program relative
to the null alternative of continuing with present maintenance standards with
existing levels of equipment utilizatiorL and productivity.
Basic Operations of the HDM model
17.      Basically, for each road maintenance alternative, the HDM model simulated
the road surface conditions and vehicle operating costs. For each year of
analysis, the road surface conditions (roughness, rutting, cracking, etc.)
were computed as a function of the previous year's conditions, the pavement:
characteristics, the climatic conditions, the level of road maintenance and the



ANNEX II
- 50 -                            Page 5 of 6
annual traffic volumes and composition. The vehicle operating costs, in turn,
were computed as a function of the road surface conditions, as well as the
vehicle characteristics and costs, and the traffic volume and composition.
This simulation, repeated for each year of the analysis period,
produced the annual costs of road maintenance and vehicle operation for each
alternative, from which economic comparison between the proposed and null
alternatives in terms of net present values, benefit/cost ratios and internal
rates of return, was made.
Basis of Economic Analysis
18.      The input data employed in the analysis included: road and traffic
characteristics; vehicle characteristics and economic costs; and road maintenance
standards and unit economic costs for both proposed and null alternatives (Table 6).
In the null case, with the assumption of no improvement in maintenance performance,
350 km of resealing and 600 km of regravelling were assumed to be carried out
each year of the Plan period. In the proposed case, resealing and regravelling
were assumed to be carried out according to the targets in Table 6, which also
includes more patching and grading than in the null alternative.
19.      To simplify the analysis it was assumed that by allowing two years of
gradual improvement, the higher grading and patching standards (Table 6)
become effective from 1981 onward; similarly, cost savings in unit maintenance
costs due to higher equipment utilization were assumed to be realized only after
1980. An analysis period of eight years (1979-1986), considered to be compatible
with the Plan period and lives of road maintenance equipment, was used. The
economic cost of capital investment, amounting to K6 12.93, was assumed for
simplicity to be spent in one lump sum in 1980; this assumption was conservative
with respect to estimating the program's internal rates of return. The capital
investment was divided into KE 3.23 million for earth roads, KE 5.69 for gravel
roads, and K6 4.01 for paved roads, in proportion to the respective recurrent
expenditures for these road classes. The salvage value of the capital investment
at the end of 1986 was considered to be relatively small and therefore not
computed.
20.      The economic comparison of paved road maintenance standards was made
only for the period 1979-1984; thereafter, all paved roads under both alternatives
were assumed to have been strengthened. Thus, the patching and resealing standards
were compared on the basis of their ability to prevent the roads from premature
failure, with consequential increases in vehicle operating costs, before the
scheduled strengthening. No economic benefits due to generated traffic were
estimated in the analysis.



ANNEX II
- 51-                            Page 6 of 6
Results
21.      Vehicle oDerating costs were computed by the HDM model but exclude
overheads and passenger time costs; therefore savings in vehicle operating
costs resulting f. )m the proposed mainstenance program would be underestimated.
Table 7 provides a summary of the economic analysis results for the three
major road classes: earth, gravel and paved roads.  The economic rates of
return well exceed 100% for all three classes; this is due partly to the
small magnitude of the capital cost re:Lative to the annual benefits. The
net benefit-cost ratios (as defined in Table 7) are also high, 7.2 for earth,
6.3 for gravel and 5.5 for paved roads, at a 12% discount rate. According
to the relationships employed in the HDM model, the vehicle operating cost
savings for earth roads are solely attributed to higher grading frequencies
resulting in lower average road surface roughness. For gravel roads, the
vehicle operating cost savings result firom higher grading frequencies as
well as from preventing some roads reverting to earth status by timely re-
gravelling. Although by reverting to earth status under the null alternative
there would be increased economic costs in the form of freight vehicle delays
and stockpiling expenses; these benefits were not assessed. For paved roads
vehicle operating cost savings are the result of the reduction in the rate of
road deterioration caused by more intensive patching and resealing. Another
advantage of the proposed alternative is that the cost of strengthening the
roads would be reduced because fewer roads are allowed to fail before scheduled
strengthening. However, for simplicity, this extra economic benefit of the
proposed maintenance program was not estimated.
March 1979



- 52 -
KENYA                            ANNEX II
T-1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Road Maintenance Standards and Performance Targets
Road Maintenance Standards
(for target year 1981)
1.     Regravelling
Normal              Annual Total Km
Gravel Road       Length           Regravelling                  of
ADT Category       (km)            Cycle (Years)            Regravelling
Over 300             328                 3                      109
201-300              722                 4                      181
101-200           3,768                  D                      754
90-100           1,440                  3                      180
Adding 236 km equivalent for regravelLing of paved
road shoulders                                                  236
1,460
2.   Gra3ing
No of times graded             Km of grading
Length of Road        Average              per rear                   per year
in Km          Daily Traffic        Heavy   Light            Heavy       Light
Gravel Roads
328               500                4        12            1,312       3,936
722               250                2         6            1,444       4,332
3,768                150               1         4             3,768    15,072
5,903                 75               1         2             5,903    11,806
5,146                 25                         1                        5,146
Earth Roads
2,350                 75               1         3             2,350      7,050
28,028                 25                          1                      28,028
Total Km of grading/year:                              14,777    75,370
3.   Resu,aling
Noraal                     Normal
Paved Road                               Resea: ing                 Annual Km
ADT Category        Length Km           Cycle (Years)              of Resealing
Over 1000            1,054                    3                          351
500-1000             1,462                    7                          209
Under 500            1,815                    9                          202
Total                4,331                   54                          762
Normal resealing requirements                                            762  km
Less resealing work eliminated by strengthening and
reconstruction'/                                                          78  km
684  km
Extra resealing work to clear backlog                                    216  km
Annual resealing work                                                    900  km
Road Maintenance Targets, 1979-83
(km)
1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1979-1983
Routine    2/
Maintenance- 51,000    51,500    52,5003/  54,800    56,700
Resealing        350        625         900      1,010      1,110         3,995
Regravelling    600       1,080      1,460       1,610      1,750         6,500
Grading 4/   45,000    67,000    90,100   101,000   110,800             413,900
1/ No resealing is assumed during the plan period for 390 km of paved roads
expected to be strengthened or reconstructed during 1979-1981; hence
390/5 years cycle = 78 km of resealing eliminated.
2/ Includes grass cutting, drainage, grading of paved road shoulders, bush
or tire dragging of unpaved road, spot gravel replenishment, and labor
intensive maintenance of rural access roads.
3/ With increased budgetary resources from 1981 onward all classified roads
will be maintained to higher standard.
4/ Measured in kilometers of grading passes; includes on average 15% heavy
grading (with watering and compaction) and 85% light grading.
Source: MOW and mission estimates
March 1979



- 53 -
ANNEX II
KENYA                              T-2
STAFF APPEAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Proposed Expenditures for Road Maintenance, 1979-1983
(KL million in 1978 prices)
1979    1980   1981    1982   1983          1979-83
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Workshops for MTD               0 04    0.62    0.64    0.55    0.59          2.44
Workshop equipment and tools  1:011'  0.15    0.19    0.19    0.23            1.77
Initial inventory of spares              1.00    1.00                         2.0()
Road maintenance equipment    1.56.Y  1.46    0.97    0.57    0.42            4.98
Total Capital              2.61    3.23    2.80    1.31    1.24         11.19
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
Road Maintenance Branch -f    9.66   12.38   13.64   14.83   15.99           66.50)
Mechanical and Transport
Departmenit - Gross Expenditures 4/
Maintenance and repairs of
vehicles and plant            2.15    2.30    2.40    2.60    2.90         12.35
Purchase of replacement
transport                     2.505/  3.41    2.26    1.34    0.99         10.5t
Miscellaneous-6/                0.67    1.13    1.37    1.64    1.83          6.64
Sub-total Gross            5.32    6.84    6.03    5.58    5.72        29.49
Equipment Hire Revenues?/
MaintenanLce Branch-8.          3.50    3,63    3.75    4.20    4.60         19.613
Other Users                     0.60    0.62    0.64    0.66    0.68          3.20
Sub-total Revenues-         4.10    4, 25    4.39    4.86    5.28       22.88
Sub-total Net MTD           1.22    2.59     1.64    0.72    0.44         6.61
Total. Recurrent           10.88   :14 97   15.28   15.55   16.43        73.11
Total Capital and Recurrent 13.49   :18.20   18.08   16.86   17.67          84.30
1/ Financed from Cr. 224-KE.
2/ Financed from Japanese Commodity Loan.
3/ Excludes headquarters and provincial administration and allocation for flood
damage repairs.
4/ These amounts have been very tentatively estimated to provide a rough comparison
between MTD's expenses and funding revenues.
5/ Equipment already on order.
6/ Includes salaries and housing allowances.
7/ Based on new funding rates proposed to take effect from July 1978 and
subject to revision during the Plan period.
8/ Based on average equipment utilization of 500 hours per year in 1979, gradually
rising to 900 hours per year in 1981.
Source: MOW and mission estimates.
March 1979



- 54 -
KENYA                             ANNEX II
T-3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
New Mechanical Workshops Required During 1980-1983
Location              Number              Expected             Estimated Cost
of Workshop            of Bays          Completion Year               (KE,)
1.    Nakuru                    16                  1980                   200,000
2.    Marsabit                   6                  1980                   110,000
3.    Malindi                    6                  1980                   110,000
4.    Nyeri                     16                  1980                   200,000
5.    Machakos                   6                  1981                   110,000
6.    Kisumu                    16                  1981                   200,000
7.    Kericho                    6                  1981                  110,000
8.    Narok                      6                  1981                  110,000
9.    Kisii                      6                  1981                  110,000
10.    Kitui                      6                  1982                  110,000
11.    Meru                       6                  1982                  110,000
12.    Busia                      6                  1982                  110,000
13.    Kitale                     6                  1982                  110,000
14.    Kinango                    6                  1982                  110,000
15.    Kiambu/Ruiru               6                  1983                  110,000
16.    Moyale                     6                  1983                  110,000
17.    Bungoma                    6                  1983                  110,000
18.    Maralal                    6                  1983                  110,000
19.    Muranga             Rehabilitation            1983                   40,000
20.    Garsen                     6                  1983                  110,000
Total       2,40,000
Source:   MOW, Mechanical and Transport Department
March 1979



- 55 -
KENYA                           ANNEX II
T-4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Tools and Equipment Required For One New Mechanical Workshop
Quantity                           Description                      Estimated Cost KE
1      Air Compressor                                                    932
1      A.C. Arc Welding Set                                              794
1      Portable Arc Welding Set (Engine Driven)                       2,565
1      Centre Lathe with machine shop tools                          10,500
1      Steam Cleaner                                                   1,437
1      60 Ton Hydraulic Press                                          2,378
1      Portable Trolley Crane                                            925
1 set  Lubricator Equipment (including pumps and dispenser)           3,600
1 set  Carterpillar service tools                                     6,690
2      6 Ton Hydraulic Trolley Jacks                                     500
1      10 Ton Hydraulic Jacks                                            405
2      Hydraulic Bottle Jacks                                             44
1      Portable Heavy Duty Drilling Machine                              120
1 set  Oxy-Acetylene Equipment                                           125
1      Bench Drilling Machine                                            125
1      Portable Drilling Machine                                          25
1 set  Battery Charger with connectors, cell testers,
hydrometer, ammeter and water still                           760
1 set  Tires remover kit with bead breaker, vulcaniser and
tubeless tire torniquet                                     1,300
1      Wheel alignment gauge                                             125
1      Universal puller press for bearings, with ball race
extractor set                                                 370
1      Bench Grinding machine                                            65
1      Bench sander grinder machine                                       70
6      Bench vices                                                      165
1 set  Valve spring lifters, lighl: and heavy duty                       20
1 set  Smithing equipment including tin-smithing                        185
1 set  Panel beating equipment                                           90
1 set  Air pressure gauges and hoses, etc.                               95
1 set  Taps and Dies and Reamers                                        300
1 set  Valve seat grinder                                               200
1      Brake and Clutch liner riveter                                    90
1      Spark  plug service unit                                          80
1      Torque wrench                                                     50
1      Compression tester                                                55
1      Portable oil volume pump                                          70
1      King pin extractor                                                40
Miscellaneous tools and gauges                                   200
4      Plant Mechanic tool kits                                         750
10     Vehicle Mechanic tool kits                                     1,175
2      Electrician's tool kits                                          155
1 set  Vehicle stands                    ) Manufactured in
2      Oil drip trays & cleaning tanks ) C.M. & T.E.
Tool benches & engine stands    ) Workshops                      250
TOTAL ESTIMATED COST    KI 37,825
Source: MOW, Mechanical and Transport
Department, September 1978
March 1979



ANNEX II
- 56 -                              T-5
K E N Y A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Additional Road Maintenance Vehicles and Equipment Requirements 1/
1979 - 1983
79/83 Requirements
Description                  Unit Cost 2/         Number       Amount
(Kt)                            (Kt)
LWB Truck, 7-ton                           9,000                 96         864,000
LUTB Truck,10-ton                         23,000                 28         644,000
Tipper     7-ton                          10,300                 62         638,600
Tipper    10-ton                          32,000                 55      1,760,000
WVheel tractor 45-HP                       3,500                 58         203,000
Wheel tractor 65-HP                        4,500                 18          81,000
Pickup 4 x 2                               2,700                 40        108,000
Pickup 4 x 4                               5,000                 25         125,000
Dozer D4 equiv.                           22,000                 24         528,000
Dozer D7 equiv.                           60,000                  3         180,000
Motor Grader                              36,000                 90      3,240,000
Vibratory roller pedestrian control        3,900                 15          58,500
Bitumen distributor on vehicle chassis  19,000                    6         114,000
Bitumen storage tank trailer              12,000                  3          36,000
Bitumen drum decanter trailer             17,000                  3          51,000
Prime mover for trailer                   18,000                  3          54,000
Concrete mixer                             1,500                 60          90,000
Water dist. 5 m3 vehicle                   8,200                 40         328,000
Water dist. 10 m3 trailer                   7,500                15         112,500
Prime mover for trailer                   18,000                 12         216,000
Chip spreader self-propelled              25,000                  6        150,000
Mechanical broom                           3,000                  6          18,000
Water trailer                              1,000                144         144,000
Traxcavator                               46,000                  9        414,000
Towed vibratory roller                    12,500                 70         875,000
Fuel browser on vehicle                   12,000                 48         576,000
Low loader with horse 15/20-ton           30,000                  3          90,000
Low loader with horse 25/30-ton           51,000                  3         153,000
11,851,600
1/ Includes both replacement needs and additional equipment necessary for expanding
the maintenance program. Excludes KL4.1 million for equipment already on order
for 1979.
2/ Estimated 78/79 Nairobi prices
Source: MOW, Mechanical and Transport Department and Mission estimates.
March 1979



- 57 -
KENYA                             ANNEX II
T-6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECT'OR PROJECT
Road Maintenance Standards and Unit Economic Costs
Summary of Road Maintenance Standards
Without            With
project           project
Grading Frequency (vehicle passes/grading)                    I
Earth                                                 18,000             9,0002-/
Gravel                                                18,000            10,0001/
Regravelling  (km/year)                                    600             1,4601'
Patching (sq.m/km/year)                                     120               3001]
Resealing (km/year)                                        350                800Z./
Summary of Unit Economic Costs of Road Maintenance 3/
Without            With
project           project
Grading (KE/km)4/                                        41.00              22.80 1/
Regravelling (K/cu.m in-place)5/                         4.94               4.94
Patching (KE/sq.m).Y                                      1.51               0.84 1/
Resealing (Kn/sq.m) 7/                                    0.45               0.25 1/
Routine 8/
Earth                                                  54.60             54.60
Gravel                                                 93.60             93.60
Paved                                                 129.40            129.40
1/ These maintenance standards and costs are assumed to apply from year 1981 onward;
during 1979-80 the standards and costs in the without-project case are assumed.
Cost reductions result from projected improvement in equipment utilization.
2/ As scheduled in Table 1 of this annex.
31 Includes physical contingencies; except for regravelling undertaken by contractors,
excludesdepreciation and interest charges on road maintenance equipment (amounting
to 22% of above unit costs on average) as they are already incorporated inL the
initial capital investment of Kn 12.93 million (para. 9).
4/ Weighted average of 15% heavy grading and 85% light grading.
5/ The unit costs of regravelling under both cases are assumed to be equal as; most
regravelling is done by private contractors.
6/ Weighted average of 2% heavy patching and 3% light patching.
7/ Average of 80% single seal and 20% double seal.
8/ The unit costs per km of routine maintenance are assumed equal in both cases,
although greater intensity of routine maintenance is expected in the with-project
case.
Source: Maintenance Branch and mission estimates.
March 1979



- 58 -                                           ANNEX II
T-7
KENYA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Benefits and Costs of Road Maintenance Program
(RE million)
Increase in    Increase in    Vehicle Opera-
Capital         Road Mainte-   ting Cos5            Net
Cost,2i         nance Costs    Savingsi3             Benefit4/
Year            (1)                 (2)           (3)                (4)
Earth Roads                           1979             -                  -               0                 0.00
(30,400 km)                         1980             3.23                -              0                 -3.23
1981             -               0.061           6.31                 6.25
1982             -               0.065           6.58                 6.52
1983             -               0.069           6.88                 6.81
1984             -              0.073            7.19                 7.11
1985             -               0.077           7.52                 7.44
1986             -               0.082           7.86                 7.78
Undiscounted Total                3.23            0.427          42.34                 38.68
Discounted atl 8%                 2.99             .30           29.91                26.62
12%               2.88              .25           25.53                22.39
18%               2.74              .20           20.48                17.54
Net benefit/cost ratio at 12% discount rate -  : 7.2
Internal rate of return: 175
Percent vehicle operating cost savings at 12% discount rate  /: 6.1
Gravel Roads                          1979             -                  1.11           0                 -1.11
(15,900 km)                         1980             5.69                3.18           0                 -8.87
1981             -                  0.42         13.34               12.92
1982             -                  0.16         15.54               15.38
1983             -                  2.53         17.74               15.21
1984             -                   0           20.84               20.84
1985             -                   0           22.01               22.01
1986             -                   0           23.25               23.25
Undiscounted Total                5.69               772M        112.72               99.63
Discounted at: 8%                 5.27               4.19          76.39              66.93
12%               5.08                3.79         64.49               55.62
18%               4.82                3.29         50.87               42.76
Net benefit/cost ratio at 12% 5/ : 6.3
Internal rate of return: 175
Percent of vehicle operating cost savings at 12% discount rate6/: 8.5
Paved Roads                           1979             -                    0             0                   0
(4,330 km)                          1980             4.01                .534            0               -4.54
1981             -                  .449          2.96                2.51
1982             -                  .310          7.88                7.57
1983             -                  .134         11.00              10.86
1984             -                    0          27.44              27.44
Undiscounted Total               4.01               1.427         49.28               43.84
Discounted at: 8%                3.71               1.225         35.55               30.61
12%               3.58               1.141         30.53              25.81
18%               3.40               1.033         24.59              20.16
Net benefit/cost ratio at 12%: 5.5
Internal rate of return: 127
Percent of vehicle operating cost savings at 12% discount rate6/ 2.3
_/   Comparison of with project case against without project case.
2/   Includes all capital components listed in Table 2 of this annex.
3/   Excludes passenger travel time savings.
4/   Column (4) =  (3) - (1) - (2)-
5/   Column (4) discounted divided by the sum of columns (1) and (2) discounted.
6/   Vehicle operating cost savings as a percentage of vehicle operating cost in the without project case.
Source: Appraisal mission estimates
March 1979



- 59 -
REPUBLIC OF KENYA                  ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Economic Analysis of the Road Construction Program
1.        This annex offers a brief explanation of the methodology adopted
for the economic evaluation of projects (excluding ongoing projects) included
in the road construction program.
I.   Preliminary Screening Process
2.        A list of road projects was drawn up by the Highway Transport Study
team and the Planning UTnit of RD after consultations with RD personnel,
provincial administrations, district development committees, other Government
ministries, agencies and interested parties, and as a result of the Materials
Branch report on the deterioration of paved roads and the findings of the
Highway Transport Study itself.
Trunk and Primary Roads
3.        As part of the initial analysis of projects a planning indicator was
assigned to each trunk and primary road.  This indicator comprised four major
components: geographic service, socio-economic impact, trip service and inter-
modal service. The geographic service factor indicated where the proposed road
directly served as an international, inter-regional and inter-district link,
as well as where it served major urban centers and gave access to isolated
population centers. The socio-econc,mic impact factor took into account the
various service centers served within the area of influence of the proposed road,
the population density, agricultural. and industrial potential of the.area of
influence using maps prepared by the Ministry of Lands and Settlement, and
the importance of the road as a means of transporting cash agricultural. crops
and industrial raw or finished products. The trip service factor measured
annual average daily traffic, volume! of heavy traffic, number of long distance
trips and public transport vehicles, and projected traffic growth. The inter-
modal service factor measured the importance of the road as a link to other
forms of transport by assigning a higher rating to roads which provided, signifi-
cant access to another form of transport (rail head, port, airport, etc.).
4.       The above planning indicator, plus other factors such.as cost of
construction, all-weather status and surface condition of the proposed roads,
helped to determine which roads were to be subject to detailed economic
analysis. Altogether, out of about 150 trunk and primary road projects,
internal rates of return were computed for 65.
Secondary and Minor Roads
5.       The Highway Transport Study emphasized the need for more and im-
proved secondary, minor and rural access roads, as well as the importance
of the RARP and GCBP in meeting this need. However, the Study found that



- 60 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
these programs would not adequately cover the improvement of access roads
to service centers across the country. The development of service centers
throughout the country has been a feature of national development planning
during the last few years; the centers are to be the focal point of commercial,
industrial, administrative, health, educational and recreational services
required by the rural population, as well as by urban dwellers. The Study
found that about 3,000 km of roads linking service centers to the nearest
higher category center were inadequate, thus leading to reduced access to
such essential facilities as medical, education, marketing, and agricultural
extension services. Together with the Physical Planning Branch of the
Ministry of Lands and Settlement, a point rating system was developed to
determine whether or not the centers studied were actually performing the
designated services for the rural population. Roads leading to centers that
were non-viable were eliminated from the original list, leaving 1,640 km of
roads. Out of these about 1,305 km would be covered by the GCBP and primary
road construction program, leaving 335 km to be improved.
TI. Details of Final Economic Analysis
6.        Economic analysis of all projects was based on vehicle operating
and maintenance cost savings, as well as time savings where applicable.
All costs and benefits included in the analysis were net of taxes and duties,
and shadow priced according to the latest Bank estimate of the shadow
exchange rate; unskilled labor was also shadow priced according to estimates
made under the Rural Access Roads Project.
7.        Economic analysis of projects was first undertaken by assuming the
same base year for all projects and then ranking them according to priorities.
The economic analysis was then redone using as a base year the scheduled
startingdate of the project. However, owing to the large number of ongoing
projects and projects for which financing is already committed, not all
projects have been ranked according to economic criteria. Also, other factors
such as equity in regional distribution, national security goals and develop-
ment objectives (particularly agriculture) were taken into consideration.
A list of all new projects and their internal rates of return, benefit-cost
ratios and net present values is given in a table attached to this annex.
8.        As subprojects are submitted for financing under the proposed loan,
any necessary additional analysis will be undertaken in order to satisfy
the Bank's requirements for accepting subprojects.
Reconstruction and Strengthening
9.        Economic analysis for reconstruction and strengthening of paved roads
was based on savings in vehicle operating costs, routine and extraordinary
maintenance costs over the project life (10 years for strengthening and 15 years
for reconstruction). Extraordinary maintenance costs were based on assumptions
about the amount of patching and resealing that would be necessary if the road
was not reconstructed or strengthened during the next ten years. Costs of
vehicle operating savings were based on the Planning Unit's assumptions as to
gradual deterioration of the road and resulting effects on vehicle operating costs.



- 61 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
10.       Data from the road roughness survey carried out by the TRRL in
mid-1978 only became available after the economic analysis of projects was
complete. This data will enable a better estimate to be made of vehicle
operating cost savings, following the TRRL's detailed research on vehic:Le
operating costs in Kenya. In addition, by using the HDM for economic
analysis of strengthening, a more accurate estimate can be made of the -rate
of deterioration of roads and when reconstruction would be necessary. The
Planning Unit has expressed interest in using the HDM for economic analysis
of projects, and should be especially encouraged to use it for strengthening
projects.
Service Center Roads
11.       Rates of return have not been estimated for individual roads in
the service center program, but only roads with a rate of return over 12%
will be improved.  Preliminary econornic analysis indicates that, based upon
vehicle operating cost savings only, earth roads with 100 vpd yield a rate
of return of 17% when improved to semi-engineered gravel standard. Therefore,
only roads projected to have 100 vpd will be gravelled, while those roads
with much lower traffic levels will receive spot improvements only.
March 1979



- 62 -
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ANNEX III
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT                                      T-1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                       Page 1 of 2 pages
Summary of Economic Analysis for New Road Projects -
Total        Internal      Benefit-       Net
Project     Rate of        Cost           Present
New Road Projects                    Length       Return         Ratio          Value                 Comments
A. Strengthening Paved Roads 3/
1. International A Roads
Al    Ahero-Kisumu                       24           42            5           3,100
Al    Ahero-Kisii                        81           56            9          10,500
Al    Kisumu-Kiboswa                     11          100           32           3,200
A2    Nairobi-Thika                      78           79           16          20,600
A2    Sagana-Marua                       38           65           11           8,700      Based on incorrect kilometerage (51 km).
A104  Uplands-Longonot T.off             27         100            51           8,000
A104  Nakuru-Timboroa                    75           34            4           9,300
A104  Burnt Forest-Eldoret 4/            44          100           14           9,000      Drainage plus strengthening together.
A104  Turbo-Webuye                       38           28            3           1,500
A104  Webuye-Malaba                      48           17          1.5           1,300
A109  Mariakani-Taru  5/                 45           59           10           8,000      Drainage plus strengthening together.
A109  Mackinnon Rd.-Buchuma Gate 5/   15             100           34           2,500     Drainage plus strengthening together.
A109  Buchuma Gate-Mtito Andei          141           25            2           5,200
A109  Mtito Andei-Sultan Hamud          133           28            3           8,300
A109  Ulu-Machakos T.off                 39           73           13           8,000
2. National B Roads
Bi    Mau Summit-Kericho                 49           46            6           4,900
BI    Kericho-Senietwet                  26           30            - 6/            - 6/
B1    Senetwet-AlLero                    33        27 & 37       3 & 5       800 & 900    Senetwet-Awasi and Awasi-Ahero.
B1    Kisumu-Yalat                       42           50            7           3,700
B. Reconstruction
1. International Trnmk A Roads
A104  Kabete-LimLru T.off                12           39            5           4,700
A104  Limuru T.off-Uplands               11           27            3           2,300
A104  Naivasha-Lanet                     57           32            3          15,100
C. Upgrading to Bitumeni Standard
1. International Tnrnk A Roads
Al    Lodwar-Sudan Border 7/            250           10            6/                6/  Still under review.
A2    Marsabit-Moyale                   520            -            -               -     Feasibility study being updated.
2. National Trunk B Roads
B4    Machege-Marigat                    69           18          1.5           3,000     Relates to Machege-Marigat-
Narok (105 km).
B5    L.Corner-Nyahururu                 43           26            2           6,200
B6    Thuchi-Nkubu                       66           31            3         15,200
B8    Garsen-Garissa                    220           14            - 6/            - 6/
3. Primary C Roads
C17   Kisii-Kilgoris                     51           14         1.3              200     IBRD estimate (Highways V) in 1973.
C19   Agoro-Kendu Bay                    41           11         0.95          - 200
C20   Rongo-Homa Bay                     30           17         1.5              700
C33/42 Bungoma-Kimilili                  38           27            2          3,400
C35   Londiani-Fort Ternan               53           29            2          6,400      For 38 km only.
C40   Mumias-Kakamega                    37           20            2          1,100
C57   Narok-Mau Narok                    62           10         0.9           - 300      Will form part of Narok wheat project.
C91   Meru-Maua + Ruiri Loop             66           24            - 6/            - 6/



Total       Internal        Benefit-      Net
Project    Rate of          Cost  2/      Present
New Road Projects (cont'd)           Length      Return           Ratio -       Value  21                 Comments
km           %            *.1          KL'O00
D. Upgrading to All-Weather
Gravel Standard
1. National Trunk B Roads
B3    Narok-Amala                        56           43            6           1,500
B3    Amala-Sotik                        53           66            7           2,300
B7    Embu-Kangondi                      70           80            9           2,800
2. Primary Roads
C18   Rodi Kopany-Karungu                47           47            4             800
C25   Sondu-Kapsoit                      34           86            7           1,300
C30   Luambwa-Bumala                     33           20            - 6/            - 6/
C36   Nabkoi-Kapsabet                    46           14            1              80                                                               1
C53/65  E.Ravine-Nyeru                   48           88           10           3,800
C68   Longonot-Njabini                   20           43            4             500
C69   Njabini-Ndundori                   92           40            - 6/            - 6/
C103  Malindi-R.Post;Tsavo               78            5          0.6           - 300      Will depend on tourist development in areas.
C106  Kwale-Kinango                      24           43            4             600      In last year of Plan.
C107  Kinango-Mariakani                  42           45            - 6/            - 6/
3. Secondary and Minor Roads
Service Center Program                 535             -            -               -      To be estimated for each road.
1/  All economic analysis is from year in which project scheduled to begin.
2/  Discounted at 12%.                                            
3/  Costs for strengthening were increased by 207. during project appraisal, therefore indicated economic returns are overestimated;
however, sensitivity analysis showed that all projects were still justified.
4/  Drainage first, plus strengthening later.                                                                                                           C 
5/ Drainage only.
Missing data.
_/  To one-lane bitumen standard.                                                                                                                       0
Source: RD, Planning Unit.
March 1979



- 64 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1.        Two types of progress reports would be submitted regularly:
(i) Program Progress Reports and (ii) Sub-Project Progress Reports. Both
types of reports will be prepared by MOW in collaboration with the Road
Traffic Police for information regarding the enforcement of traffic
regulations and road safety.
Program Progress Reports
2.        Program Reports would be submitted annually, commencing with
the year ending June 30, 1980. These reports would indicate progress in
implementing each major component of the Program and would contain the
following information:
Component                           Information Required
Road Construction/Improvement    For each class of road:  1/
(i) physical progress to date of report
and during reporting period;
(ii) comparison of physical progress with
implementation schedule;
(iii) reasons for deviations from schedule
and proposals for corrective action
where appropriate;
(iv) projections of likely progress in
following reporting period;
(v) expenditure to date of report and
during reporting period;
(iv) comparison of actual expenditure with
program and reasons for any deviations,
with particular attention to trends in
unit costs; and
(vii) projections of likely expenditure in
following reporting period.
1/ Trunk, Primary, Secondary and Minor Roads and RARP and GCBP.



- 65 --
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
Road Maintenance
(i) Equipment assigned to Maintenance Branch
and subsequently to each province during
the reporting period, including a
comparison with their requirements;
(ii)  progress on staffing and comparison with
staffing program targets with reasons for
any deviations, and planned staffing for
following period;
(iii) collection of funding charges and
replacement of funded plant and vehicles
coimpared with plan and reasons for any
deviations during reporting period;
(iv)  progress with availability and utilization
rates for major classes of road maintenance
pl.ant and vehicles and comparison with
projected progress during reporting period
and proposed corrective action, if necessary,
during following reporting period;
(v) list of routine and periodic maintenance
work performed by each province during
the reporting period;
(vi)  comparison of actual work with program
sclhedule and reasons for deviations from
schedule including proposals for corrective
action;
(vii) implementation of the pilot cost-accounting
system, the updating of the inventory for
the road maintenance fleet, the review of
the funding system, and the re-establishment
and updating of the road inventory;
(viii) details of construction of workshops,
acquisition of workshop tools and equipment,
road maintenance equipment, and inventory
of spare parts; and
(ix)  work targets and projections of likely
expenditure for the following reporting
period.



- 66 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
Institution Building
(i)  Details of training courses offered and
number of trainees trained during reporting
period including information on assistant
engineers;
(ii)  comparison of actual training with program,
and reasons for any deviations; details of
staffing of RD, MTD and STD and comparison
with staffing program, and reasons for any
deviations; and
(iii) planned staffing levels and training
activity for following period.
Enforcement of Traffic            (i)  Number of vehicle weighings, showing the
Regulations                            proportion of excessive axle loads during
reporting period and summary of actions taken;
(ii)  details of establishment of vehicle inspection
centers, and traffic patrol bases, including
comparison with Implementation Schedule and
reasons for any deviations;
(iii) traffic accident statistics involving
commercial vehicles during reporting period;
and
(iv)  traffic law violations prosecutions for
commercial vehicles during reporting period.
Intermodal Transport              (i)  implementation of the road user charge and
Coordination                           axle load limit study; and
(ii)  progress with implementation of the
recommendations of the study.
Sub-Project Progress Reports
3.        This report would be submitted at six-month intervals, not later
than one calendar month after the end of the six-month period. The first report
should cover the six months ended December 31, 1979. This report should contain
the following information on each sub-project being financed by the Bank:
Sub-Project                             Information Required
Road Construction/Improvement   (i)  The physical progress accomplished to date
of report and during the reporting period;
(ii) actual or expected deviations from the sub-
project Implementation Schedule; 1/
1/ Implementation Schedule for each sub-project would be submitted with the
application for Bank to accept that sub-project for financing.



- 67 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
(iii)  actual or expected difficulties or delays
and their effect on implementation and the
actual steps taken or planned to overcome
the difficulties and avoid delays;
(iv)  expected changes in the completion dates
of the sub-projects;
(v)  matters which may affect the cost of the
sub-projects;
(vi)  original estimated cost;
(vii)  revised cost, if appropriate; and
(viii) actual expenditure;
(ix)  projected expenditure; and
(x)  actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals
from Loan Account for this sub-project.
Buildings and Equipment           (i)  Progress with construction, fitting of
workshops, road maintenance equipment and
the inventory of spares procurement during
the reporting period;
(ii)  progress with procurement of equipment for
the Materials Branch;
(iii)  progress with construction of vehicle
inispection centers and traffic police bases
and related equipment procurement;
(iv)  original cost estimates, revised costs if
appropriate, and actual expenditures;
(v)  actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals
from the Loan Account for this sub-project;
(vi)  retasons for any deviations from the Implemen-
tation Schedule and proposed corrective
action; and
(vii)  projected progress during the following
reporting period.
Technical Assistance and          (i)  Progress during reporting period in
Consultant Services                    procuring these services; and
(ii)  brief report describing and evaluating work
performed by technical assistance expierts and
consultants during the reporting period.
March 1979



- 68 -
ANNEX V
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1    Road Network by Classification and Road Type, 1977
T-2    Vehicle Fleet, 1965-1976
T-3    STD Training Output, 1971-77;  Training Program, 1978-82
T-4    Expenditure on Road Construction and Maintenance, 1970-78
T-5    Central Government Revenue from Road Vehicles, 1968-1976
T-6    Design Standards
T-7    Proposed Expenditures for Highway Development Plan, 1979-83
T-8    Overall Road Construction and Maintenance Targets, 1979-83
T-9    Details of Road Construction and Maintenance Program, 1979-83
T-10   Rural Road Components in Major Agricultural Projects
T-ll   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
C-1    Organization of the Ministry of Works
C-2    Implementation Schedule
March 1979



- 69 -                           ANNEX V
T-1
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Road Network by Classi.fication and Road Type, 1977
(km)
Bitumen    Gravel    Earth    Total
International Trunk               1,674       1,152         -    2,826
National Trunk                      710       1,172       521    2,403
Primary                           1,135       4,271    2,474    7,880
Secondary                           341       3,617    6,206   10,164
Minor                                87       2,867   21,171   24,125
Special Purpose l/                  384       2,789         -    3,173
Total                      4,331     15,868   30,372   50,571.
1/ Includes Government access, township, municipality, settlement,
strategic tourist, sugar, tea, wheat and Special Rural Development
(SRDP) roads.
Source: MOW, 1978
March  1979



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Vehicle Fleet. 1965-1976 1/
Station Wagons/
Passenger    Utilities and                   Buses/      Motor      Other Motor
Year       Cars       Pick-ups            Trucks    Mini Buses   Cycles    Vehicles 2/    Trailers    Total
1965    44,403           27,347           10,317       1,805       5,793         5,999         2,594      98,258
1966    45,984           28,713           10,805       1,913       6,164         6,725        2,871      103,175
1967    47,970           30,584           11,669       2,053       6,593         7,357         3,213     109,439
1968    49,218           31,338           12,270       2,142       7,004         7,730         3,626     113,328
19G9    53,472           34,425           13,656       2,358       7,970         8,430        4,037      124,348
1970    58,458           37,415          1I  31'Al                 R R21        10,7%1         4,352     137,271           O
1971    63,607           41,058           16,591       3,159       9,774        10,895         4,666     149,750
1972    67,500           44,165           17,405       3,424      10,681        11,716         5,078     159,969
1973    70,660           46,285           17,943       3,523       8,966         9,486         7,359     164,222
1974    78,312           52,627           19,635       4,196      10,332        10,984         8,000     184,086
1975    83,676           58,349           20,875       4,605      11,312        12,294         8,601     199,712
1976    88,623           64,375           22,246       5,017      12,608        13,607         9,258     215,734
1977                                                                                                     236,000 (est.)
Annual
Growth     6.5%            8%                7%          10%         7%            8%           12%         7%
1965-76                                                                                                                        x
Composition of Vehicles as a percentage ef Trt,*l RPP__cerntrnn (1Q76)
41%              30%               10%           2%          6%            6%            4%
1/ Vehicles  for which licenses are renewed, plus those registered for first time.  Includes all Government
vehicles except military vehicles.
2/ Includes road construction vehicles, farm tractors and three-wheelers.
Source: Government Statistical Abstract, 1977.
March 1979



- 71 -
ANNEX V
T-3
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
STD Training Output, 1971-77 l/
(Calendar Years)
Category           1971      1972      1973      1974      1975       1976      1977      Total
Overseers            82       102        85        66         50        45        40        470
Foremen              18        30        32         31        29        30        32        202
Senior Supv. Staff11-           -        35        55         49        14        96        249
RARP Overseers        -         -         -          -        32        24        38         94
Plant Operators       -        68        73        59         94        99       110        503
Mechanics
(Gr.I & II)         -       50         64        48        76        78        96        412
Mechanics
(Grade III) and
Drivers            -         -         -        95       115          9        82        301
Mechanic
Instructors         -         -         -         9        11        12          -         32
Total         100       250       289        363       456       311       494      2,263
Training Program, 1978-82
(Calendar Years)
Category           1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      Total
Overseers            40        40        40        40         40       200
Foremen              30        30        30         30        30       150
Senior Supv.StaffZ/35          50        50         50        50       235
RARP Overseers       60        60        60        60        60        300
RARP Officers-
in-Charge          16        24        24        24        24       112
Plant Operators    88         128       128       128       128       600
Drivers              40        80        80        80        80       360
Mechanics
(Gr.l & II)        75      300        300       300       300    1,275
Mechanics
(Gr. III)        130       240        240       240       240    1,090
Mechanic
Instructors         -        12         -         -         -        12
Total         514       964       952        952       952    4,334
1/ Number of students attending courses, including repeater and upgrading courses.
2/ Includes inspectors, superintendents and specialist courses.
Source: STD, August 1978
March 1979



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Expenditure on Road Construction and Maintenance , 1970-78
Financial Year
1970           1971            1972            1973           1974           1975             1976            1977         1978
ActualYTPlanV/ Actual  Plan   Actual  Plan   Actual  Plan   Actual  Plan2/ Actual  Plan   Actual  Plan   Est.   Plan   Est.  Plan
---------------------------------------------------------   KL million  -----------------_______________________________________
Capital
Trunk Roads                                                        5.4             7.3    6.5      5.1    7.5      6.1    5.5    8.5    4.2   10.0   3.2
4.7    5.1     5.4    6.2    12.1    5.5              4.4
Primary Roads                                                      6.4             5.7    5.6      4.0    5.4      3.6    5.4    4.6    4.0    3.0   2.0
Secondary Roads                                                    1.6             0.5    2.5      1.8    1.9     1.3    1.0    1.0        -    0.9     -
0.7    0.6     2.6    0.2      1.8    0.4             0.4
Minor Roads                                                        1.5             3.1    0.9      0.4    0.6        -    0.1       -    0.1      -   0.1
Special Proposed
Roads                                                             0.8             0.7    2.5      4.2    3.2      2.2    2.5    1.3    1.6    3.3   0.2
3/          2.4    2.6      3.3    2.2     0.9    1.5             2.5                                                                                 1
RARP/SRDP/Regrav.                                                  1.7             1.5    0.2      0.6      -      2.8    5.2    2.9    7.3    4.2   7.4
Road Maintenance       -      -     0.4       -     1.2      -     2.2       -     1.1       -     1.4      -      0.4      -    0.3       -    0.2      -
Miscellaneous       1.5    0.3      2.5    0.3      1.7    0.3     0.2    1.5        -       -     0.7      -        -      -    1.4       -    3.0      -
Sub-total         9.3    8.1    14.2    8.9    17.7    7.7    19.8    8.8    19.9   18.2    18.2   18.6    16.4   19.7   20.0   17.2   24.6  12.9
Actual Alloc.  Actual Alloc.  Actual Alloc.  Actual Alloc.  Actual Alloc.  Actual Alloc.  Actual Alloc.  Actual Allc.  Est.  Alloc.
Recurrent
Road Maintenance    2.7    2.7      3.2    3.3      4.2    4.0     5.4    5.3      6.4    6.4      6.8    6.6      8.0    8.3    7.9    8.2    8.6   8.9
Total of Actual
Expenditure       12.0            17.4            21.9           25.2            26.3            25.0           24.4           27.9           33.2          1j 
1/  Current prices.
2/ Plan figures for 1970-1973 in constant 1969 prices and figures for 1974-1978 in constant 1973 prices.
3/  SRDP - Special Rural Development Program.
Source:    Appropriation Accounts and Government estimates, 1970-1978.
March 1979



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGRWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Central Government Revenue From Road Vehicles, 1968-1976
Kh '000
1968        1969        1970        1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976
Licenses                                1,381.2    1,267.6    1,396.8    2,170.4    2,622.2    2,801.0    2,942.4    2,988.8    3,116.9
Gas and Diesel Oil Taxes
(a) Consumption Tax                     1,732.8    1,950.4    2,252.4    2,392.5    2,373.9    1,178.0             -            -           -
(b) Import Duty
(i)  Gas                            3,397.7    3,821.2    4,182.4    4,875.3    3,626.9    5,479.4    5,696.5    7,755.9    8,338.8
(ii)  Diesel Oil                     2,079.0    2,354.4    2,595.5    3,236.3    2,366.0    3,782.5    3,858.0    4,511.4    6,816.1
Other Import Duties
(a) Motor Vehicles
(i) Passenger Cars                 1,450.6    1,980.4    2,391.5    2,531.4    2,500.0    2,292.6    4,087.8    3,321.2    4,332.3
(ii) Buses, lorries & trucks           301.5       444.4       533.5       645.9       702.7       915.3    1,656.5    2,191.7    2,607.9
(b) Chassis with engines                  495.9       532.8       630.3    1,203.3        495.7        833.3    1,105.7    1,124.8         968.5
(c) Vehicle bodies and parts              532.5       552.6       686.7       713.2       493.3        596.3    1,393.2    1,584.1    1,433.6
(d) Motor Vehicles, Tires and Tubes    496.8          474.6       518.5       770.7        91.7        108.2       584.6       141.6       179.5
Total                           11,868.0   13,378.    15,187.6   18,539.0   15,272.4   17,986.6   21,324.7   23,619.5   27,793.6
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics, 1977
March 1979



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DESIGN STANDARDS
AADT:-/       Under 100                100-500 5/            500-2000                  2000-4000                 Over 4000
P r e ze n t                 Terrain: Flat   Roll   Meout. Flat  Roll   Mount. Flat   Roll  Mount.   Flat    Rull   Mute.  Flat    Roll   Mount.
1. GEOMETRIC
- Design Speed                     km/h         30      40      50      60      80    10            60      40      30    90       70     40    100       80      50       110      90      60       120      100       70
- Min. Horizontal Radius            m            35     70    125    175    350    600              125      50      25   320    100       50    400    250        80       490    320    125         600      400    180
- Maximum Gradient                  %            12     10    8.5    7.5   6E0    5.0                 5       7      10   3.5        6    9.5       3    5.5        9          3       5      8          3     4.5        7
- Minimm Sight Stopping             m             -      -      60      00    110    150          65-80  40-45  30-35 110-145 80-110 40-45 135-170 95-120 5D-65  155-185 110-145 65-80 175-200  135-200 80-100 2/
- Min.Passing Sight Distance        m             -      -    200    250    300    400              325       -       -   525    400         -    575    475    250         625    525    325         700      575    400
(reduced)                                     -       -       -       -       -          225       -       -   350    275        -    375    325    175          400    350    225         450      375    275
2. CROSS SECTION
- Type                                              I              IT             IlI                   VI                        V                      IV                          III                       Il  3/
- Width of Road Re-erve             m              80              60              40                     20                     25                      40                           60                       60
(reduced)                                                                                     20                      25                      40                           40                       40
- Width of Pavement (Bit.)          m            7.00            6.00            5.50                      -                   6.00                     6.5                          7.0                      7.5
- Width of Each Shoulder (Bit.)  m               2.50            2.00            1.25                      -                   1.00                    1.25                          1.5                      2.5
- Width of Surfacing (Gravel)    m               5.50            5.50            5.50                      -                   6.00                     6.5                             -                        -
- Width of Each Shoulder (lra.)  m              4.25             2.75            1.75                      -                   2.25                    2.50
- Earth Roads                       m               -               -               -                      5                      -                       -
- Width of E..Should. (Earth)       m                                -               --
3. PAVEMENT 4/
- Type of Cross Section                             I              II             III
- Heavy Vehicles Per Day (hvpd)            450   150  150   450 150 150            50
+    450  mum.   +  450 mac,         mom.
- MOW Design CBR Curve                     Al     A2   A3   Al   A2  A3             B
- Bituminous Surface Thickness  em         75      55   20   75   55  20           20
- Gravel Surface (hvpd)                         0-150                            0-50
- MOW Design CBR Curve                              A                              B
- Gravel Thickness (minimur)    mm                 150
Approximate Equivalent Wheel
Loads
hvpd  more than 450            5,454 kg (12,000 lbs)
hvpd  150-450                  4,090 kg ( 9,000 Ibs)
hvpd  0-l50                    3,200 kg ( 7,000 Ib)
4. STRUCTIORES 4/
- Cross Section Type                                I              II             III                   VI                        V                      IV                          III                       It
- Width between Curbs                           9.00             8.00            4.50                  4.00                    6.00                   6.50                          7.00                     7.50
- Width of Each Footpath                         1.50            1.50           (1.5)                     0                    1.50                   1.50                          1.50                     1.50
- Loading Criterinn:
(a) Tronk Roads:       BS 153 HA Loading (checked for 20 or 25 uni ts RB
loading ye coretai scheduled roads)
(b) Other Roads:        2/3 of BS 153 HA Loading
I/ Averege annual traffic in tenth year after opening vew road.                                                                                                                                                                      oN
2/ Minimum sight distance depends on gredient.
3!  Type I of Crone Section correspond6 to dual carriageway.
4/ In process of revmsion.
In remote areas can be reduced to a 3.5 m single lane.
Source: Ministry of Works, 1978.
March 1979



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                                                              Proposed Expenditures for Ni9hooy Developmet Flax, 1979-93
(KN millions ix 0979 Prices)
A. Road Construction Progrum
1. Trunk Rends                                     1979                            1990                           1981                              1982                              1983                          1979-83
(i)  Ongoing Ernjects                    L       P      Totol            L        F     Toal              L      F      Total               L       F    Tote1               L        F    Total             L        F     Total
- St-pogth.icg                  0U 30      0.78      1.08                                                  -         -                                                  -         -        -          0.30      0.78   1.08
- Rococ .trctitn                 0 43      0.80     1.23          0.55      1.01    1.56          0.30      0.55      0.85             -        -         -             -         -        -          1.27      2.37   3.64
- UpRrading to Bit-es
Standard                       3.05      5.67     8.72          2.17      4.03    6.20          1.08      2.01     3.09          0.48      0.88      1.36             -         -        -          6.78    12.59  19.37
-Upgrading to All-Weather
G--ro i StoAdard               0.15      0.18      0.33         0.21      0.25    0.46          0.22      0.28      0.50         0.25      0,31      0.56          0.30      0.36     0.66          1.13      1.38   2.51
Sub-total         3.93     7,43    11.36          2.93      5.29    8.22          1.60      2.84      4.44         0.73      1.19      1.92          0.30     9.36      9.66          9.48    17.12  26.60
(ii) New Projects
- Strengthening                      -        -         -         0.65      1.67    2,32          1.99      5.13      1.12          1.94     5.00      6.94          2.10      5.41     7.51          6.69    17.20  23.89
- Reconstruction                     -        -         -         0.66      1.23    1.89           1.09     2.02      3.11         0.89      L.65      2.54          0.83      1.53     2.36          3.46      6.44   9.90
- Upgrading to Bit-ces
Standard                       0.21      0.40     0.61          1.12      2.09    3.21          1.89      3.50     5.39          2.24      4.17      6.41          2.61     4.84      7.45          8.07    15.00  23.07
- Upgrading to All-Weether
Gravel Standord                0.11      0.13     0.24              -        -        -         0.15      0.18      0.33         0.23      0.28      0.51          0.13      0.15     0.28          0.61      0.75   1.36
Sub-total        0.32      0.53     0.83          2 43      4.99    7.42          5.12    10.83    15.95           5.30    11.10    16.40            5.67    11.93   I.60           18.83    39.39  58.22
TOTAL TRUNK ROADS                 4.25     7.96    12.21          5.36    10.28   15.64            6.72    13.67    20.39           6.03    12.29    18.32           5.97    12.29    18.26          28.31    56.51  64.82
2. Pri-tar  Roads
(13) Ongeirso Pro jects
-- Upgrading to BituLen
Standard                      1,06      1.96     3.02          1.21      2,25    3.46          0.40      0.74     1.14             -         -         -             -         -        -          2.67      4.95   7.62
-- Upgrading to Gravel Standard 0.30       0.37     0.67          0.55      0.67    1.22          0.12      0.15      0.27         0.12      0.15      0.27          0.16      0.20     0.36           1.26     1.53   2.79
Sub-total        1.36      2.33      3.69         1.76      2.92    4.68          0,52      0.89      1.41         0.12      0.15      0.27          0.16      0.20     0.36           3.93     6.48  10.41
(ii)  Nov Projexto
-- Upgrading to Bituxec
Standard                      0.31      0.59     0.90          1.75      3.25    5.00          1.93      3.59     5.52          1.87      3.46      5.33          1.99     3.71      5.70          7.86    14.59  22.45
-- Upgrading to All-Weather
Grovel Standard                            -         -         0.26      0.32    0.58          0.55      0.67      1.22         0.33      0.40      0.73          0.25      0.30     0.55           1.39     1.69   3.08
Sob-total        0.31      0.59     0.90          2.01      3.57    5.58           2.48     4.26      6.74          2.20     3.86      6.06          2.24      4.01     6.25           9.25    16.28  25.53
TOTAL PRIMARY ROADS               1.67     2.92     4.39          3.77      6.49   10.26           3.00     5.15      8.15          2.32     4.01      6.33          2.40      4,21      6.61         13.18    22.76  35.94
3. sexondary end Miser Reads
(i) Ongoing Projects
- Improvement of D & E Roads   2.56       3.13     5.69          2.03      2.48    4.51          1.12      1.38      2.50         0.79      0.96      1.75          0.79      0,96     1.75           7.29     8.91  16.20
(ii)  New Projects
- Ireprovee-nt of D & E Reads   0.04      0.06     0.10          0.18      0.21    0.39          0.33      0.40      0.73         0.31      0.38      0.69          0.26      0.31     0.57           1.12     1.36   2.48
TOTAL SECONDARY AND MINOR NRD  2.60       3.19     5.79          2.21      2.69    4.90          1.45      1.79     3.3           1.1       1.34      2.44          1.05      1.27      2.32          8.41    10.27  18.68
4.  oravelitg ant Rural Access Road
Frograls
(i)  Onoing Projects
- GCBP                          2.14      3.22     5.36          2.61      3.91    6.52          1.69      2.54      4.23         1.57      2.35      3.92          1.53      2.29     3.82           9.54    14.31  23.85           ' 
- RARP                          2.10      1.40     3.50          2.10      1.40    3.50          2.10      1.40      3.50          2.52     1.60      4.20          2.50      1.72     4.30          11.40      7.60  19.00
Rub-total         4.24   4.42       0.06          4.71      5.31   10.02           379      3.94      7.73         4.09      4 03      8.12          4.11      4.01     8.12          20.94    21.91  42.85
TOTAL ROADS                                  12 76    18.69    31.4T          160        4.     49            14.56    24.34 _39.0  _          13        21.47    35 21   _      13.3    21.70    3 3.             70.94   111.45 182.29          '



1979                            1980                           1981                             1982        t                   1983                          1979-83
B.  Road Mainte.ance Program                    L        F     Total            L        F    Total            L         F     Total            L        F    Total             L         F     Total            L        F    Total
- Workahops for HTD                 0.03     0.01      0.04         0.50      0.12    0.62          0.51     0.13      0.64         0.44     0.11      0.55         0.47      0.12     0.59          1.95      0.49   2.44
- Workshop eqoipment, tools, and
inventory spares                  0.35      0.66     1.01         0.40      0.75    1.15          0.42     0.77      1.19         0.07      0.12     0.19         0.08      0.15      0.23         1.32      2.45   3.77
- Rood oaistenanc-   equipment 1/   0.55     1.01      1.56         0.51      0.95    1.46          0.34     0.63      0.97         0.20      0.37     0.57         0.15      0.27     0.42          1.75      3.23   4.98
TOTAL ROAD MAINTEMANCE PROGRAM        0.93      1.68     2.61          1.41     1.82    3.23          1.27      1.53     2.80         0.71      O.C      1.31          0.70     0.54      1.24          5.02     6.17  11.19
C. Traffic Lau7 Enforcement & Road Safaty
- Vehicle Inspection Casters
aod Traffic Police Offices           -         -        -          0.17     0.04    0.21          0.18     0.04      0.22         0.26      0,06     0.32          0.24     0.06      0.30         0.84      0.21   1.05
- Eqoipoest for Traffie Police
ond Vehicle Inapect. Ceotecs         -         -        -          0.03     0.07    0.10          0.07     0.11      0.18         0.03      0.07     0.10          0.02     0.05      0.07         0.16      0.29   0.45
TOTAL TRAFFIC LAW EMNORCEMENT
AND ROAD SAFETY                       - Y               -          0.20     0.11    0.31          0.25      0.15     0.40         0.29      0.13     0.42          0.26      0.11     0.37          1.00     0.50   1.50
D. Other BRildisg & Equipment
- Eqoipmest for Mtaeriols Brooch   0.03       0.06     0.09          0.10     0.18    0.28          0.09      0.17     0.26         0.09      0.17     0.26          0.09      0.17     0.26          0.40     0.75   1.15
E..supporting Activities
- Coosultant Services               0.37     1.47      1.84         0.73      2.91    3.64          0.74     2.95      3.69         0.68      2,73     3.41          0.57     2,26      2.83          3,09    12.32  15.41
Technicol Assistaoce               0.15     0.62     0.77          0.18     0.74    0.92          0.17     0.66      0.83          0.09     0.37     0.46          0.04      0.16     0.20          0.63      2.55   3.18
- RARP Monitoring sod Evaluation
Stody                             0.01      0.02     0.03          0.03     0.10    0.13          0.03     0.10      0.13         0.03      0.10     0.13          0.03      0.10     0.13          0.13     0.42   0.55
-Miscellasous                     0.28      0.28     0.56          0.37     0.36    0.73          0.40      0.39     0.79          0.47     0.47     0.94          0.47      0.47     0.94          1.99     1.97   3.96
TOTAL SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES           0.81      2.39     3.20          1.31     4.11    5.42          1.34     4.10      5.44          1.27     3.67     4.94          1.11      2.99     4.10          5.84    17.26  23.10
TOTAL CAPITAL                                14.53    22.82    37.35         19.07    30.99   50.06         17.91    310.49    48.40         15.90  __20.24    42.14         15.69    25.59    41.28          83.10   136.13 219.23
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                     14.53    22.82    37.35         22.54    36.62   59.16          22.65    38.64    61.29         21.51    35.48    56,99          22.59    36.85    59.44         103.82   170.41 274.23
II. RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
Adoinistratios RD                 1.27         -     1.27          1.30        -    1.30          1.34         -     1.34          1.36        -     1.36          1.38         -     1.38          6.65         -   6.65
-Rood Matoenace                   4.83      4.83     9.66          6.19     6.19   12.38          6.82      6.82    13.64          7.41     7.42    14.83          7.99      8.00    15.99         33.24    33.26  66.50
Mechosical & Tronop-tri 
Departoent Gross 3/               5.32         -    5.32           6.84        -    6.84          6.03         -     6.03          5.50        -      5.58         5.72         -      5.72        29.49         -29.49
(Equipenit Mia Rasort)           (4.10)        -    (4.10)        (4.25)           (4.25)        (4.39)        -    (4.39)       (4.86)             (4986)        (5.28)             (5.28)       (22.88)          (22.88)
- StoiC TraisiOg Deporimesie0.44            -                  0.46         -    0.46          0.47               0.47         0.47               0.47          0.47         -     0.47          2.31             2.31
T-Trffic rouse.  4/                0.30         -     0.30          0.42             0.42          0.53               0.53          0.26        -     0.56          0.57         -     0.57          2.40         - 2.40a n
-Technical Assistane
(RD, MTD, STD) 5                  0.11     0.41      0.52          0.12     0.50    0.62          0.11     0.44      0.55         0.07      0.29     0.36          0.04     0.16      0.20          0.45     1.80   2.25             o
TOTAL hECURRENT                              8.17      5.24    13.41         11.08     6.69   17.77         10.93      7.26    18.19         10.39     7,7j    18.30         10.89      8.16    19.05         51.66    35.06  86.72
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      8.17      5.24    13.41         13.10     7.91   21.01         13.83      9.19    23.02         14.33    10.43    24.76         15m68    11.76    27.44          65.11    44,53 109.64              X
TOTAL CCPITIAL CONTIENCUiE)                 22.70    28.06    50.76          35.64    44.53   80.17         36.48    47.83    84.31          35.84    45.91    81.75         38.27    48.61    86.80         168.93   214.94 383.87
NEi' OF TAXES AND DUTIES                                       41.80                           66.20                           69.70                            67.50                            71.80                        317.00
1/ Te-tativ- e-timate.
2/  In-lod-s EAR naistesnasc.
-/ Includes equipment hire r-venues, salaries and miscellaneous.
/ InclIdes solorica, POL and niscellaneous foe vehicle ifspection casters a-d troffic police bhses.
5/ Tachnical eoperts already in established or other posto in MOW, not directly worhing 00 specific development ptoje-ts.
Source: Planning Unit, RD.
March 1979



- 77 -
ANNEX V
REPUBLIC OF KENYA                              T-8
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Overall Road Construction and Maintenance Targets, 1979-83
(km)
Trunk Roads                                 1979       1980       1981      1982       1983   1979-83
1.  Ongoing Projects
- Strengthening                          11          -         -          -          -        11
- Reconstruction and Upgrading
to Bitumen Standard                    61       126        110         92          -       389
- Upgrading to All-Weather Gravel Std.  9           12        13         15         19        68
2.  New Projects
- Strengthening                           -       118        169        168        198       653
- Reconstruction and Upgrading
to Bitumen Standard                     -        20         94        128       197        439
- Upgrading to All-Weather Gravel
Standard                                -         -         40         56        37        133
Sub-total                81        276       426        459        451     1,693
Primary Roads
1.  Ongoing Projects
- Upgrading to Bitumen Standard          40        50         20          -          -       110
- Upgrading to Gravel Standard           10         13        13         13         18        67
2.  New Projects
- Upgrading to Bitumen Standard           2        60         88         56        65        271
- Upgrading to All-Weather
Gravel Standard                         -         72       154         90         57       373
Sub-total                52        195       275        159        140       821
Secondary and Minor Roads
1.  Ongoing Projects
- Improvement to Gravel Standard        149       151        159        140       140        739
2.  New Projects
- Improvement                             3          8        58        124        95        288
Sub-total               152        159       217        264        235     1,027
Gravelling and Rural Access Roads Program
1.   Ongoing Projects
- Gravelling of Secondary
and Minor Roads                      470       775      1,085      1,085     1,085      4,500
- Construction of Rural Access         900     1,880      1,940      1,940     1,940      8,600
Roads
Sub-total             1,370     2,655      3,025      3,025      3,025    13,100
TOTAL ALL ROADS                      1,655      3,285     3,943      3,907      3,851    16.641
Road Maintenance Program
2/
- Routine Maintenance  1/          51,000     51,500    52,500-   54,800    56,700            -
- Resealing                           350        625        900      1,010     1,110    3,995
- Regravelling                        600      1,080      1.460      1,610     1,750    6,500
1' Includes rural access roads.
2/ With increased budgetary resources from 1981 onward will maintain all classified roads to
higher standard.
March 1979



- 78 -
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT                                ANNEX V
T-9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                 Page 1 of 3 pages
Details of Road Construction and Maintenance Program, 1979-83
(km)
I. ROAD CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Ongoing Projects                              Total      Completed
Project   to end                        To Be Completed
A. Strengthening                              Length    1978          1979       1980       1981       1982       1983     Total
1. International Trunk A Roads
A104  Timboroa-Burnt Forest                14          3        11          -          _          -          _         11
B. Reconstruction
1. International Trunk A Roads
A104  Longonot T.off-Naivasha              26          -          7        14          5          -          -        26
A104  London Rd.-Nairobi Airport           29         27         2          -          -          -          -         2
Sub-total                       55         27          9        14          5          -          -        28
C. Upgrading to Bitumen Standard
1. International Trunk A Roads
Al   Kitale-Kapenguria                     37          9        11         13          4          -          -       28
Al   Kapenguria-Marich Pass                65          6        21         15         15          8          -       59
Al   Marich Pass-Lodwar                   207          -         6         67         67         67          -      207
A3   Thika-Kangondi                        78         11        14         17         19         17          -       67
Sub-total                      387         26        52        112        105         92          -      361
2. Primary Roads
C27  Kisiani-Bondo                         51         15        10         18          8          -          -       36
C29  Siaya-Luambwa                         25         15         2          4          4          -          -       10
C37  Awasi Chemelil                         9          -         4          5          -          -          -        9
C51/77 Nyahururu-Ndindika                  49         10        10         21          8          -          -       39
C70  Thika-Githumu                         30         18        12          -          -          -          -       12
C70  Kangema-Kiriaini                      14         10         2          2          -          -          -        4
Sub-total                      178         68        40         50         20          -          -      110
D. Upgrading to Gravel Standard
1. Trunk Roads
A3   Kangondi-Garissa                     255        41          9         12         13         15        19        68
2. Primary Roads
C97  Makutano-Kitui                        60          -         3         13         13         13        18        60
C112 Garsen Bridge Approaches               7          -         7          -          -          -         -         7
Sub-total                       67          -        10         13         13         13        18        67
E. Improvement of Secondary and Minor Roads
D421 Mukuyu-Muriaranjas                    22          -        10         12          -          -         -        22
Mandera District Roads                    720        60        120        120        140       140        140       660
Kiambu District Roads                    150         25         19         19        19          -          -        57
Sub-tctal                      892        85        149        151        159       140        140       739
F. Gravelling and Rural Access Road Programs
- GCBP                                10,000        240        470        775     1,085      1,085      1,085    4,500
- RARP                                15,000        654        900     1,880      1,940      1,940      1,940    8,600
Sub-total                   25,000       894      1,370      2,655      3,025     3,025      3,025   13,100
TOTAL ONGOING PROJECTS                       26,848       1,144    1,650      3,007      3,340     3,285      3,202   14,484



ANNEX V
T-9
Page 2 of 3 pages
- 79 -
New Projects                          Total
Project                     To Be Completed
A. Strengtheniij_  :ed Roads          Length       1979      1980       1981       1982       1983     Total
1. International A Roads
Al   Ahero-Kisumu                   24          -         -          -         24         -         24
Al   Ahero-Kisii                    81          -         -          -          -        25         25
Al   Kisuinu-Kiboswa                11          -         -          -          -        11         11
A2   Nairobi-Thika                  78          -         -          -         40        38         78
A2   Sagana-Marua                   38          -         -         20         18         -         38
A104 Uplanids-Longonot T.off        27          -         -          -          -        27         27
A104 Naku-.u-Timboroa               75          -         -         26         38        11         75
A104 Burnc Forest-Eldoret           44          -        44 1/       -          -        14         58
A104 Turbo-Webuye                   38          -         -         30          8         -         38
A104 Webure-Malaba                  48          -         -          -          -        15         15
A109 Maritikani-Taru                45          -        45 l/       - 1/       -         -         45
A109 MackLnnon Rd.-Buchuma Gate   15            -         -         15 -        -         -         15
A109 Buchuima Gate-Mtito Andei    141           -         -          -          -        30         30
A109 Mtit,' Andei-Sultan Hamud    133           -         -          -          -        20         20
A109 Ulu-MIachakos T.off            39          -         -         15         24         -         39
Sub-total               837          -        89        106        152       191        538
2. National 3 Roads
Bi   Mau Summit-Kericho             49          -        19         30          -         -         49
Bi   Kericho-Senetwet               26          -         -         10        16          -         26
Bi   Senetwet-Ahero                 33          -        10         23          -         -         33
B1   Kisumu-Yala                    42          -         -          -          -         7          7
Sub-total               150          -        29         63         16          7       115
B. Reconstruction
1. International Trunk A Roads
A104 Kabete-Limuru T.off            12          -         -          -         2         10         12
A104 Limuru T.off-Uplands           11          -         -          9          2         -         11
A104 Naivasha-Lanet                 57          -         5         19        19         14         57
Sub-total                80          -         5         28         23        24         80
C. Upgrading to Bitumen Standard
1. International Trunk A Roads
Al   Lodwar-Sudan Border  2/       250          -         -         30        50         60       140
A2   Marsabit-Moyale  2/           520         -          -          -         -         40        40
Sub-total               770          -         -         30        50        100        180
2. National Trunk B Roads
B4   Machege-Marigat                69         -         15         18        18         18        69
B5   L.Corner-Nyahururu             43         -          -          -        13         11        24
B6   Thuchi-Nkubu                   66         -          -         18        24         24        66
B8   Garsen-Garissa                220         -          -          -         -         20        20
Sub-total               398          -        15         36        55         73        179
3. Primary C Roads
C17  Kisii-Kilgoris                 51         2         14        11          -          -        27
C19  Agoro-Kendu Bay                41         -          -          -        12         21        33
C20  Rongo-Homa Bay                 30         -          -         4         15         11        30
C33/42  Bungoma-Kimilili            38         -         12        20          6          -        38
C35  Londiani-Fort Ternan           53         -          -          -         7         18        25
C40  Mumias-Kakamega                37         -         14        23          -          -        37
C57  Narok-Mau Narok                62         -          -          -         -         15        15
C91  Meru-Maua + Ruiri Loop         66         -         20        30         16          -        66
Sub-total               378          2        60         88        56         65       271



ANNEX V
T-9
Page 3 of 3 pages
- 80 -
New Projects (continued)                Total
Project                     To Be Completed
D. Upgrading to All-Weather             Length      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983      Total
Gravel Standard
1. National Trunk B Roads
B3   Narok-Amala                    56          -          -        22         34          -         56
B3   Amala-Sotik                    53          -          -         -          -         37        37
B7   Embu-Kangondi                  70          -          -        18         22          -        40
Sub-total               179          -          -        40         56         37        133
2. Primary Roads
C18  Rodi Kopany-Karungu            47          -        28          -          -          -        28
C25  Sondu-Kapsoit                  34          -          -        20          -          -        20
C30  Luambwa-Bumala                 33          -         -          -         10         23        33
C36  Nabkoi-Kapsabet                46          -          -        32          -          -        32
C53/65  E.Ravine-Nyeru              48          -          -        20         28          -        48
C68  Longonot-Njabini               20          -        20          -          -          -        20
C69  Njabini-Ndundori               92          -          -        40         52          -        92
C103 Malindi-R.Pobt;Tsavo           78          -          -         -          -         34        34
C106 Kwale-Kinango                  24          -        24          -          -          -        24
C107 Kinango-Mariakani              42          -          -        42          -          -        42
Sub-total               464          -         72       154         90         57        373
3. Secondary and Minor Roads
D255 Busia-Malaba                   29          -          -         -         29          -         29
Service Center Program             535          -          -        50         95         95       240
D456 Rukenya-Gicheru                12          2         5          5          -          -        12
E620 Kianyaga-Thumaita               7          1          3         3          -          -          7
Sub-total               583          3          8        58        124         95        288
TOTAL NEW PROJECTS                     3,838          5        278        603       622        649      2,157
II. ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
4/
--   Routine Maintenance  3/                   51,000    51,500       52,500   54,800    56,700            -
--   Resealing                                     350        625        900    1,010       1,110     3,995
--   Regravelling                                  600     1,080       1,460    1,610       1,750     6,500
1/  Drainage only.
2/ May be upgraded to one-line bitumen standard. This is still under review.
3/ Includes rural access roads.
41 With increased budgetary resources from 1981 onward will maintain all classified roads to higher
standard.
Source: MOW
March 1979



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Rural Road Components in Major Agricultural Projects
Estimated
Source                                 Completion Date                       Responsibility for
Project         of Funds      Proposed Construction   for Total Length             Construction             Maintenance
Tourist Roads          KfW        4.25 m gravel) 216 km         1979             Ministry of Agriculture         National Game
(Phase V)                       goads         )                               and MOW  (contract)             Parks and MOW
Mumiad&Sugar           ODM        6.5 m bitumen) 250 km         1980             Ministry of Agriculture         MOW and Mumias
Roads                           4 and 5.5 mm )                                 and MOW (contract)              Sugar Company
earth/gravel )
roau's)
Narok Agricultural    IDA         6 m gravel       50 km        1983             Ministry of Agriculture         PU 1/
Development Project               5.0 m all-   )                                 and MOW (contract)              (contract out)
weather      ) 115 km
South Nyanza           IBRD       4 m earth       400 km        1980             PU and MOW                      S. Nyanza
Sugar Project                   4 m gravel      191 km                         (contract)                      Sugar Company
5.5 m gravel   137 km                                                         and MOW
5.5 m bitumen    7 km
Bura Irrigation        IDA/IBRD   6.0 m gravel   246 km         1982             PU (contract                    PU and MOW          < 
Settlement Project                4.5 m earth    480 km                          to NYS) 2/                                           j
1/ Project Unit.
2/ National Youth Service.
Source: MOW and Bank Group Appraisal Reports.
March 1979



- 82 -
REPUBLIC OF KENYA                   ANNEX V
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT                T-ll
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Dis-
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                           bursement at         Annual
aLnd Quarter                               End of Quarter    Disbursement
1979/80
September 30, 1979                             -                -
December 31, 1979                          1,500 1/         1,500
March 31, 1980                             3,300            1,800
June 30, 1980                              5,400            2,101)
1980/81                                                    5
September 30, 1980                         9,1PO           3,700
December 31, 1980                         12,900            3,800
March 31, 1981                            16,800            3,900
June 30, 1981                             20,900            4,100
15,500
1981/82
September 30, 1981                        26,100           5,200
December 31, 1981                         32,600           6,500
March 31, 1982                            40,000            7,400
June 30, 1982                             46,800           6,800
25,900
1982/83
September 30, 1982                        52,300           5,500
December 31, 1982                         57,600           5,300
March 31, 1983                            62,700           5,100
June 30, 1983                             67,600           4,900
20,800
1983/84
September 30, 1983                       72,300            4,700
December 31, 1983                         76,800           4,500
March 31, 1984                            81,200           4,400
June 30, 1984                             85.500           4,300
17.900
1984/85
September 30, 1984                       88,400            2,900
December 31, 1984                        90,000            1,600
March 31, 1985                                -                -
June 30, 1985                                 -
4,500
1/ Includes retroactive financing of detailed engineering.
Source: Mission estimates.
March 1979



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Organization of the Ministry of Works
Minister for Works     j
Permanent Secretary
Engineer-in-Chief
Provincial                        StDepartmening                         Deputy                       National Construction                    Department
Engineers                          Deprtento                        Engineer--in-Chief                     Corporation                        1-  '-Secetaiv y
L~~          _________
Buildings Department                 Roads Department                      Mechanical & Transport Department
Chief Architect                  Chief Roads Engineer                  Chief Mechanical & Transport Engineer
Maintenance Branch                   Materials Branch                                                      D
Chief Engineer                     Chief Engineer                 Chief Executive Engineer                  Chief   gineer                           Enee
SSE - Senior Superintending Engineer                                                                   [        f    i  Direct        D
SE - Superintending Engineer                                                     Planning              Contracts   LL]|
World Bank - 19954



- 84 -
ANNEX V
C-2
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Implementation Schedulel-
Responsible   f       1979               1980                1981               1982            1983
Agency  II_IIII_- T
J       M     J    S    D    M     J    S   D   M      J    S    D   M     J   S    D    M    J   S    D
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                                                         -                        -                     |         i4 4          l
Revwe of Works Program                        RD, IBRD
Mechanical Workshops:
Preparation of Tender Documents               MTD                                        i
Bidding and Award of Contract                MTD                                               " 
Construction                                  Contractors                       _        _            jt
-  Ecuipment and Spare PartsI
Preparation of InventorY of Existing                               i
Equipment andSpare Parts                      MTD, RD
Preparation of List and Specifications
for Spare Parts and New RD Equipment          MTD
Bidding and Orders for Spare Parts            MTD                                     _
Delivery                                      Contractors
Rehabilitation of Existing Equipment          MTD
Bidding and Orders for New RD Equipment       MTD
Delivery                                      Contractors                                                                                                 i I
-  Workshop Equipment and Tools                                            i                                  E   Ii                      i         j
Bidding and Order                             MTD                  j
Delivery                                      Contractors                                              M                             an n t-_
Technical Assistance
Preparation of Job Description                MTD. RD
Recruitment                                   MTD, RD
In Field                                      Tech. Assts.
rImprovement of Funding Scheme                                                                  I i
Review of Existing Funding Scheme             MTD
Drawing up of New Scheme and
Government Approval                           MTD, RD, MF                                                   i
Implementation                                MTD, RD                   |                                 I    I             I
Establishment of Cost Accounting Scheme                            |                                                                              K
Pilot Cost Accounting Scheme                  RD                                    - i  II
Implementation                                RD                   |                                                                            i
TRAFFIC REGULATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                          I 
Buildings
Bidding anc Award of Contract                 MPC, mOW
Construction                                  Contractor
Equipment                                                                                                                                7t
Bidding and Orders                            MPC, Police                                       I
Delivery                                      Contractor
1/ This schedule does not include imPlementation of main road construction which will be in accordance with the targets specified in
Annex V, T-8. Implementation of works financed by IBRD will depend on submission and approval of applications for individual
projects.
_ Intermittent activities
'Ministry of Finance
March 1979
WVorld Bank -19953



- 85 -
ANNEX VI
REPUBLIC OF KENYA                   Page 1 of 3 pages
HIGHWAY SECTCIR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Reports and Studies on Highway Subsector
A.1 "Highway VI Road Project, Proposed Analytical Procedures,"
Roads Department, Ministry of Works, September 1974, 2 volumes.
A.2 "Kenya Highway Transport Study -- Kenya Transport System,
Present Conditions and Performance (Vol. I); and Future
Development of Highway Transport in Kenya (Vol. II)," Roads
Department, Ministry of Works, with assistance from Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), July 1978.
A.3 "Proposed Investment Programme to be Financed as Part of
Kenya's First Highway Sector Loan," Ministry of Works with
CIDA assistance, July 1978, 3 volumes.
A.4 "Road Development Plan, (Final Version), 1979-1983"
Roads Department, Ministry of Works, September 1978.
A.5 "Overall Goals - Policy Objectives and Strategies for the
Development of Highways in Kenya during the Fourth National
Development Plan Period (1979-1983), Parts 1 and 2,"
Roads Department, Ministry of WTorks, February 1978.
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1 "Performance Evaluation of Kenyan Pavements Strengthening
Requirements," Materials Branch of Roads Department, March 1978.
B.2 "The Use of Crushed Stone for Road Base and Subbase Construction,"
Materials Branch of Roads Department, November 1977.
B.3 "Evaluation of Vehicle Weight Statistics in Kenya," Materials
Branch of Roads Department, December 1977.
B.4 "Report on Vehicles and Mechanical Equipment Availability and
Utilization," Ministry of Works, March 1978.
B.5 "Study on the Funding Scheme of the Ministry of Works,"
H. P. Gauff, GmbH & Co., June 1978.
B.6 "Preliminary Design Report, Nairobi-Mombosa Road," Sir Alexander
Gibb & Partners, April 1975, :2 volumes.
B.7  "Report on Failure Investigation, Kericho-Mau Summit/Ahero-Senetwet
Roads," Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, April 1975.



-86 -                            ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3 pages
B.8 "Japanese Commodity Loan to Finance Road Construction and
Maintenance Equipment (a revised submission)," Roads Department,
Ministry of Works, November 1977.
B.9 "Road Design Manual, Part 1, Geometric Design of Rural Roads
(draft)," Ministry of Works, July 1978.
B.10 "Highway Sector Loan: 1979-1983 - Preliminary Programming Details
for the Ongoing and Proposed List of Projects," Roads Department,
Ministry of Works, March 1978.
B.ll "Forward Information Supplied to the World Bank in Connection
with the Appraisal of the Sector Loan," Roads Department, Ministry
of Works, June 1978.
B.12 "A Proposal for the Improvement of Selected Priority Roads in
Kiambu District," Roads Department, Ministry of Works, October 1977.
B.13 "Staffing Program for the Roads Department," Roads Department,
Ministry of Works, September 1978.
B.14 "Staffing Program for the Mechanical and Transport Department,"
Ministry of Works, September 1978.
B.15 "Revised Hire Charges Effective 7/l/78," Mechanical and Transport
Department, Ministry of Works.
B.16 "Road Roughness Survey of All Paved Roads in Kenya," Transport and
Road Research Laboratory (TRRL), July 1978.
B.17 "Cost Estimates for Gravelling, Culverting and Bridging Program,"
Roads Department, Ministry of Works, September 1978.
C. Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Bank Staff
C.1 Detailed Cost Estimates for Highway Development Plan (1979-1983),
broken down by local and foreign costs, in constant 1978 prices.
C.2 Detailed Cost Estimates for Road Development Plan (1979-1983),
including price and physical contingencies.
C.3 Details of road construction targets and cost estimates for
road construction to be financed by the Bank.
C.4 Details of cost estimates and implementation schedule for
detailed engineering to be financed by the Bank.
C.5 Derivation of road maintenance equipment requirements (1979-1983).
C.6 Productivity and unit costs of MOW road maintenance units
(for target 1981).



-87 -                     ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3 pages
C.7 Vehicle operating costs under existing conditions.
C.8 Breakdown of 1980/1981 estimated road maintenance budget.
C.9  Tentative list of subprojects to be financed by the Bank under
the Sector Loan.
C.10 Financing by external donors of the Highway Sector Development: Plan.
C.l1 Details of technical assistance under the Highway Sector Development
Plan.
C.12 Revision of Road Maintenance Program as contained in Loan Application.
March 1979






IBRD13992
5 '4                                                'C.                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMBER 1974
SUDAN  *~~~~~~~~- -~~~~~C  ( ~~~KENYA
5UD A N                                          -                                                 HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
E  T H  I O  P I A
3,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T \di 4 t''                      b.                                     b.__ 
3                     1                          K~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A-                                                        4.
0\.?                           I                                   I )  'N ,             ,,
1 X t ~~~~~I,                                               \t._.; ...ni.....    -,              /  ,f
i                 MAAK       -Az J                                                                                      EANDUA4         /
X  ff:;   >          ~~~Locoor    -    s                                        /1t'                             
14GA;.N  PD A    Fg TfE  A EK E R N
-;~~ /               xe                    '0Fr   . .........                                                                      I    \/  
rX~~~~ ..        \=
ND              "            WA'-     f H       %A    , A                                               AeS    - -   E   Y  2/t:0 
WCSOR/~~~~~~~474.                                           (<     I                                   /                   ,I 
4X~~~F                        1,~A KER-owG                                                         K I
i00X;:[i    ; ;   0        dore V   A                                                ____r    y    Thk,                              ____
f,CTRANtrElANZA    K UN       /   tHr I   M4t00Ln7str :  ^    At  --090                                                               K/7
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U R'N
V1 AA,L
L A/N)                            / ~~~~~~   0     A       (  7      2400kK~~~~~~Am
KrtL                         freKafr4cts,             U         .       U>U>
Rvcd hiAcceseU * tonad14 eoMto  ' N 
KAK---dA        -  -       intetrmen- Tr.mek R-ads
1          h                NlfiotTf-kROQd\, -                                                                            ither Rrd -?!
K. 5444A                    R- ads to be Recores  tedo,
10. AIDE                     Upgraded, 1979-83
KA OW4L                    R- ad Under Con trocton
CR -44ARA*   Ntro-c Capito1
40 S,04A       - ~~~~~- -Psi,o,l Ro.,ndories  Nwn0 lcpc
24. SODIrI NYANAA                   Preoronial~C *~  1-..                                    OMBN4AA f 
--0 DADtA  RN C                                                                                                                    f, I;
4o nE  __    "       16L
4.007740<
i4r.A~4.a.rpn4n.Trrn.kvcD.rvv.cr.rr,,,r4.c,,,,.,T






To No ,ob,    1 394
K,b-o                                                              0
/ 5    /\\l03                                                 \                                                                                        KENYA
K. >  1'---' ,-'\                                                                      >HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
To. AroXlm    AMbselo                                                                                                                                       Eastern Area
A niternotionat trunk roods
B       Notional trunk roods                               \
C -    Primary roods
Roads to be RecorStructed or                              7 4
Improved, 1979A83                             42 k                          t     u             ud-    0          5
Former bank Group financed projects
(3       Highway maintenance cenfers
0       Other towns                                                                                                                                                                                               b-i
-          -   Itternational boundaries                                                                                                                           4109
KILrOMETERtS                                                                                                                                                                           T...o  s  
0  20      30       4~~~10     510       610       70"Ioeo                                                                                                                                     &o otw
MILES                     i        7O
ftTHrcOPIA
$ ; 'M       1 ' ?.    y    C- 7T
K  E  N  Y                                                                                                                                                                                                    /A  I
K                                                                                                                                                                    b-~~~~~~~~~~~K
, K  _      ~K_  _ ,,, |              Th J hnaphaS behnp.wwtdby rhv                                              N                                           \             l    P    _  R   j.FgO  CEA N
wi_ T ~~~~~~~~0 r OesAn7tcuwtdt\ 4 AMOoO
.~~~~~ ~~~~~ IV _h, C   h, ia.wudreeiT                                                                                                                               ,  
TANZANIA                     I 4    WOoIAA,oO Cod  t.4AOit 01r
i  5< \  _     eAO0t0lreptanct 000,hthtntnnss       3at                                                                4C' T. Tagq.                                                           41e   






IBRD 14013
DECEMBER 1978
g51      /        d                                                                       KENYA                                  To L.     Mo-sobl
Vaor got 
0 :                                 ) HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
( ;51                                            Central Area                                      >
K.b-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o                                                      <        tO         O>00    0i0.rL0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vt X SGto SetleeL9 ot
Oi    Higwa MNp     tenno  Centers                                       K      n     em       t }    fTeo 
-~~~~  -   Iteraioa  Boundaries                                                         \                    Co     Kiguo e)g  
E~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~IE
'AA12                            .,,/.,.hx\      or    K9n          Q       t                                                                     TG
0  20ngonof 40  60_ 9 0to nk
5 _- _t_ Bt 2 / >~A\3 *Ntv Rgw n
TC bsl                        K p brtet5ru                                                   _       f             XJT U LP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G16
orlmproved~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 K17-3  rt l.r. 
A  RodInternaCons1truch oad                                   NAIR                                        T.C7_rz
F aionalnced n Roads            /J                                            x                                           g
c     Prmr Roll ads                                                               P, S        9i           
(* E    lha                                                                                                           .dh.,nnc  CetrK f<,  k  tcMs            Iong
S* nentondary a ondMiorieoas C/1z                                                              ,>97                        o                                    \
Former~~ed Ban Gru                                             TCff/NJgn                             
Financed Roadsaac                                                                     t 
Hiha  M\  ;tr,a,e Ce                                                                                             Honu-8
.\                 O ~~~~~~~ 10     20       3C        40                                                  $
s ~~~~~~K LOMETERS <     
5ttbANq `              F       S    Vs  
g   iK E N 'Y A        It\,                                                                                                                            t_
,V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T M.,Id- w.\ I   
a;-  i~~~~~~~~~~d                                             To As ..r M42$nr7tf rrg 
TA  A   o,b,IWA"+ f;f|






IBRD 14012
_ 4~                                                                    35DAN                                                                                   DECEMBER 19781
34'                          '      35                                                              1t  '.       0 t \ sETtelOe 
UGANDA                                                                                                                                           z I3  (I,     N ,\- A
No## '<                                                                      A_CiT 4                         ..T^ANZ-'A  '                                     70iI06
V
N,-
63      OAAAM~EGA
R."                                                    K.-9                               C5       K--- b8 >t       L    
Ch\ -S I3                     ,              /                                     W      3                 TG OIRDb            I
8   Natianss trjnk rroads   To Mwanso    \/                                                                                          
c       Pr,rna,y poods                              \                                                                                                                          |
-- -      5etondary rtodo                         'V4?>4\                                                                                                       N  
      Rondo ro2be reconsntnrorsda imrntv2edilU9f5         4/J                              KeTo [dgo                                     rOzU
-Rrods unodes ITontOrvcfioO                                  
,--. Iormer Bark Groop I      Binced Roads   Kb
---- --'-    Railwoys                                                                          \                                           , 
*        Hiahway wonoflreooce centers                                                                 \.                        ID       DC       30       60o  
Other towrs                                                                                            "N24
-   -.  - lofernofnoOol boondaroeo                                                KENYA                                    'N.s  T
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT     
'Western Areca\                                                                     
.flarrJ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. T,,  Ir reJ,,h~ofo                                                    ...... Xruahm
,f516. r6   n e A      S arbo-dr 4h, O-6 3eso  \_
atc.ctofl 0(60,0 O.,w,6a,,bo                                 $5'~A                      ., T.



