                                                                                                                        93820
                                                                                                                January 30, 2012




Tatev's New Road in Armenia Leads to Economic Revival
Vigen Sargsyan, Senior Communications Officer in the
Armenia World Bank Office, offers this story.
                                                                    Photo Gallery
The road to Tatev monastery winds through a spectacular
gorge with rocky slopes and lush forests. It once connected
several villages, but became so dilapidated that it was known
not as the most beautiful pass in Armenia, but as the most
dangerous one. Today, the road is rebuilt, and high hopes are
pinned on the revival it could bring.

"For over thirty years this road was in a desperate shape,
some sections were simply impassable," says Smbat
Yeremayn, Shinuayr, village elder. "Now we are proud of the         Related Links
road we have, it's like elsewhere in the civilized world."
                                                                    The World Bank in Armenia
Tatev, a 9th century monastery, is an architectural                 Lifeline Roads Improvement Project
masterpiece, a landmark, and a tourist attraction. The new
                                                                    Lifeline Roads Improvement Project AF
road is luring tourists from Armenia and beyond once again,
and starting to benefit these isolated communities.                 Lifeline Roads Improvement Project
                                                                    Second AF
                        "We plan to build a small market,         Bringing Roads to Life
                        where farmers can sell their produce.
                                                                  Lifeline Roads Improvement Project:
                        Some people have started bed-and-
                                                                  Results
                        breakfasts, and they confidently take
                        out micro-loans to do it. But the most    Improving the Lives of People Event
                        important thing for me is that the
                        attitudes of people have changed, few people think of emigrating now. They
                        plan to stay in their homeland instead," says Yeremayn.
Smbat Yeremayn
                         One of the main goals of the Tatev Revival Project, which upgraded the road
and other infrastructure here, was to connect the area's heritage with today's development. It brought
together private and public partners, including international ones, around a common endeavor.

                        As a result, the Wings of Tatev, the longest aerial tramway in the world,
                        spanning the Vorotan River Gorge, was built and is already a major attraction
                        for tourists. The government, with World Bank support, rebuilt a 24.6 km section
                        of the road that runs underneath the tram.

                        Hamlet Vanyan, a villager in Shinuayr has noticed the effect. "People started
                        renovating their houses; there are taxi services; before, they would drop us off
                        somewhere on the main road. As for me, I drive, so I am saving a lot now on
Hamlet Vanyan           fuel and car maintenance."

                        Hatsatun means bakery, where lavash is baked: Armenian bread made of very
                        thin dough. Visitors to this area who want to get a feel for village life can visit a
                        number of newly opened bakeries, shops and souvenir kiosks near Shinuayr's
                        main road.

                        "We've been open a year, just like the Tatev road," says Nora Barseghyan, a
                        lavash baker. "Nine of us are employed here in this bakery. A year ago, we
                        were baking up to 300 lavash a day, now the average is up to 700. Tourists
Nora Barseghyan         greatly enjoy freshly baked lavash."

                        Almost every villager mentions the road provides an easy connection to nearby
                        places and to services. "I come from Goris, the regional center, and it takes me
                        15 minutes to get here now, instead of the hour-long commute of the past. Nice
                        and easy. I didn't expect that the new road would increase the number of
                        patients visiting our modest facility. You see how many medical cards I have on
                        my desk since this morning? We are happy to serve patients also from the
                        neighboring villages, like Khot, Harzhis, Tatev, Halidzor," says Nora Ivanyan,
                        Head of the Shinuayr Primary Healthcare Center.
Nora Ivanyan
                          Halidzor, a community of 900, is the other village in the gorge with a
rehabilitated road, including a section linking the village road to the school, repaved by unanimous
request of the community.

                        "We all know it was an additional burden for this program, but it is quite critical
                        for the community, as this is about the safety of our kids. I have worked in this
                        school for 7 years, and I travel from neighboring Shinuayr. I've never crossed
                        this distance with the dignity I do now. In harsh winter weather, the roads would
                        simply be blocked, and the school closed. But not anymore," says Lilit
                        Harutunyan, teacher at Halidzor Secondary School.

                         The roads linking villages to highways are often called lifeline roads in Armenia,
Lilit Harutunyan         as they are vital for communities located dozens of kilometers away from urban
                         centers. The World Bank-supported project has ended geographic and
economic isolation of rural communities. It has fixed almost 300 kilometers of roads in over 80
communities in Armenia, and created thousands of short-term jobs.
