FILE COPY                               Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2270-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMEND&TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
TIBAMA DEVELOPMNT PROJECT II
(Wadi Rima)
May 3, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1                  =    YRls 4.50 1/
YRls         1      =        $0.22
YRls     1,000      =      $222.00
YRls 1,000,000      =  $222,222.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB    -  Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF    -  Agricultural Credit Fund
CARS   -  Central Agricultural Research Station
CPO    -  Central Planning Organization
LDA    -  Local Development Association
ODM    -  Ministry of Overseas Development
TDA    -  Tihama Development Authority
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
/   No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF.  All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:              $10.5 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:         The project would consist of:  (a) raising agricultural
production, farm income and welfare of people in Wadi
Rima by providing technical assistance, agricultural
credit, gravel access roads, potable water supply, and
extending the Wadi's hydrometeorological monitoring
program for evaluating its surface and groundwater poten-
tial for future optimal use, and constructing a gabion
test structure in the Wadi to test the diversion capab-
ility and strength of a comparatively low cost design for
its possible future application in Tihama and other similar
wadis; (b) construction of a headquarters camp for Tihama
Development Authority (TDA) at Hodeidah; and (c) provision
of Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS).
The nroject would generate social as well as economic
benefits. The average agricultural income of 77 percent
of Wadi Rima's population, 44,000 persons, was estimated
to be below the US$150 subsistence level in 1977.
Village water supplies and access roads would benefit
all. The readily quantifiable economic benefits would
directly affect some 3,700 agricultural families (about
22,000 persons) raising their average income by about
52 percent. Economic benefits derived from the insti-
tutional support to the Ministry of Agriculture and CARS
through training of qualified manpower, adoption of
higher yielding varieties and plant protection techniques
and higher administration efficiency in the organization
would be substantial, though unquantifiable. The only
risks in the project arise from the possibility of a
prolonged drought and scarcity of labor. The risk from
drought is minimized as the project is not designed to
require more water for irrigation than is presently
used. The project would finance studies to assess the
surface and groundwater potential in Wadi Rima, to
develop an equitable system of cost and crop sharing
between tenants and landowners, and to determine the
types of farm machinery best suited for the project area.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost
& Financing:                                                        /1
Financing
Cost                              Other    Govern-
Local  Foreign  Total   IDA  UNDP  EEC  External   ment
-----US$ Million-        ------------US$ Million----------
A. WADI RIMA
Project Manage-
ment              1.62    0.85    2.47  1.02    -    -          -      2.02
Agricultural
Services          2.30    2.07    4.37  2.50    -    -          -      3.22
Agricultural
Credit            0.74    1.95    2.69   -        -    -       2.41    1.34
Access Roads       1.47    2.60    4.07   -        -    -       3.23    3.09
Village Water
Supply            0.34    1.64    1.98   -        -    -       2.01    0.72
Hydromet
Monitoring        0.10    0.11    0.21  0.14    -    -          -      0.19
Gabion Test
Structure         0.18    0.12    0.30  0.14    -    -          -      0.31
B.  TDA's HEAD-
QUARTERS           1.49    1.97    3.46  2.43    -    -          -      2.86
C.  CONTINGENCIES
(For Items
A and B)
Physical           0.54    0.76    1.30            -    -
Price              4.97    1.81    6.78            -    -
D.  INSTITUTIONAL /1
SUPPORT TO
MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE
AND CARS            -     11.89   11.89  4.27   1.50 1.22    4.90        -
13.75   25.77   39.52 10.50   1.50 1.22   12.55   13.75
/1   Includes Physical and Price Contingencies.
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:                 IDA   FY      1979   1980   1981   1982    1983
-----------US$ Million…-------…
Annual                  1.55   2.65   2.80   2.50    1.00
Cumulative              1.55   4.20   7.00   9.50   10.50



- iii -
Economic Rate
of Return:          30 percent
Estimated
Completion Date:   June, 1983
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1938b-YAR, dated April 19, 1978
Regional Projects Department, EMENA






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit of $10.5 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to the Yemen
Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a Tihama Development project II. A grant
of $1.22 million from the European Economic Community's (EEC) Special Fund and
a contribution of $1.50 million from UNDP are expected to partially finance
the institutional support to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central
Agricultural Research Station at Taiz. The Government is expected to provide
$13.75 million. In addition, they are exploring with other external sources
the provision of $12.55 million to cover the balance of the total project cost,
under parallel financing arrangements.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, was distributed
to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. A basic economic mission
visited YAR in October 1977 and its report is under preparation. The findings
of the mission are reflected in this section. Country data are attached in
Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socio-economic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new Republican Government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time, the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning organization, modern
budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of
working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration. Tribal frag-
mentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past, is gradually
being overcome. Central Government control has been spreading throughout the
country and continues to do so.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  In 1973 the Government launched a Three-Year Development Program
(1973/74-1975/76) which susbsequently was implemented largely with the help
of foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the physical infra-
structure was expanded and telecommunication links were built; first attempts
1/   Identical to Part I of the President's Report on a Highway III Project
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 17, 1978.



- 2 -
were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its
medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that workers' remit-
tances rose from some $30 million in 1969/70 to over $800 million in 1976/77.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70 reaching a level of about $400 1/ in
1976/77. While these developments, together with fast-growing government
expenditures for both investment projects and public services, have greatly
alleviated Yemen's traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural under-
employment, they have created new ones which require urgent attention in the
future.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 20 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the Government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This seriously limits the absorp-
tive capacity of the public administration.
7.        The gap between public and private salaries has been widened by a
narrow tax base and by inflation which averaged some 30 percent p.a. in recent
years. Inflation also creates distortions in resource allocation and income
distribution, and weakens the savings propensity of the private sector. The
major sources of inflation have been a fast-growing demand for goods and ser-
vices as well as physical constraints on imports, especially congestion in
the Port of Hodeidah.  Domestic demand has been fuelled by workers' remit-
tances; by a deficit in the Government's financial transactions; and more
recently, by an acceleration of bank credit to the private sector.
8.        Another major issue the Government faces at present, is to assure
the rational allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources. During
the past when funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely
lacking, the authorities found it relatively easy to select high-priority
projects such as establishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing
1/   Tentative estimate; official figure is $250 per capita, as shown in
Annex 1 and based on World Bank Atlas methodology for the period 1974-76.



-3-
modern education, building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories.
With the rapid growth in development spending, however, the range of choices
is increasing very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of indi-
vidual projects will not always be as obvious as in the past.
9.        Yet, the new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements
in development, remarkable as they are, should not distract from the fact
that YAR continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country.
Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture which
occupies about three-fourths of the resident labor force. This reflects the
very limited investment in physical capital made so far as well as the pre-
dominance of traditional skills. Nine out of ten adult persons are illiterate
and only one out of every four children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary schools. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part of whom in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical
constraints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are both scarce and few mineral deposits have
been discovered so far.
Government Objectives
10.       The Government is fully aware of these issues--old as well as new
ones--and willing to address them with all the means at its disposal. This
is reflected in the Government's development objectives as outlined in the
first Five-Year Development Plan for the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on
the achievements of the Three-Year Program, the new Plan endeavors to further
develop the country's human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical
infrastructure; to raise the productivity of the commodity producing sectors;
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs for food, health services, education, water supply and other com-
munity services. To achieve its objectives the Government has launched an
impressive investment and manpower training program which it intends to carry
out in close cooperation with foreign donors of capital and technical assis-
tance. While continuing to rely on a market-oriented economic system the
authorities foresee increasing collaboration between the public, cooperative
and private sectors.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage an
increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76 to
$1,230 million in 1980/81, implying an annual growth rate of almost 50 percent.
The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is to be US$3.5
billion. Although not excessive for a country of YAR's size and population
(it represents an annual amount of about US$150 per capita), the steep increase
in investment proposed by the Plan raises questions of technical feasibility
and economic viability.



12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the Government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, sponsored by IDA,
which will ease congestion in Hodeidah and improve facilities in other ports
of entry. The project is designed to meet YAR's requirement for port capacity
up to 1985. The resulting unrestricted flow of imports should reduce present
supply shortages thus easing inflationary pressure. In addition, measures
have been taken, in consultation with the IMF, to reduce the budget deficit
and to restrict the expansion of bank credit to the private sector. Encour-
aging results are also being achieved in education and manpower training.
Enrollment in primary and secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs
in technical and vocational training have been started. The University of
Sana'a, established in 1970, now has close to 3,000 students many enrolled
in technical disciplines. A large number of Yemeni students (about 2,300)
also receives training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8-9 percent a year between 1969/70 and
1975/76. Not surprisingly, economic growth was strongest in the modern
sectors, reflecting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of
government services, of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid
increase of modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising
vegetables, fruits and chickens. Subsistence agriculture, still the most
important economic sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace (about 3 percent
p.a.).
15.       When interpreting these trends one has to remember that 1969/70
fell into the middle of a prolonged drought period. Agricultural growth,
especially in the subsistence sector, therefore reflects in large measure
higher levels of precipitation in the final year (1975/76). If this factor
is eliminated one can conclude that agricultural expansion was essentially
confined to cash crops while subsistence farming just about held its ground
and possibly even declined marginally.
16.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects but later in a more coordinated



- 5 -
form through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan the Government
increased its development spending from YR 57 millon ($13 million) in 1972/73
to YR 340 million ($76 million) in 1975/76.
17.       Although the period since 1970 is relatively short, it has witnessed
perceptible changes in the structure of YAR's economy. The sha.,s of modern
agriculture, trade, transport and government services in GDP have all increased
during the 1970s while that of subsistence agriculture declined from over 40
percent in 1969/70 to less than one third in 1975/76. But even so, YAR's
economy is still very much underdeveloped. The contribution of cash farming
and industry (including construction) to GDP is still less than that of sub-
sistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
18.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years, has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the
fast growing investment level. In 1975/76, gross national savings reached the
equivalent of 24 percent of GNP compared with only 10 percent in 1971/72.
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, it must be borne in mind that the high savings rate was
perhaps as much the result of fortuitous circumstances as of deliberate poli-
cies. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes, together
with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning from Saudi
Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent which may not
be perpetuated in future years.
19.       Virtually all of YAR's national savings are being generated by the
private sector while the government sector has had negative savings in the
past. This was mainly the result of a narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in
1975/76) which did not allow the public sector to capture an adequate share
of the country's growing money incomes. Shortage of tax revenue has also
restricted the expansion of essential public services such as education,
public health and maintenance programs for existing capital stock.
20.       So far the inadequacy of current revenue has not held back public
investment. Generous foreign aid has enabled the Government to finance all
projects and programs which it could effectively handle. Moreover, cash
grants provided by Saudi Arabia have helped to ease the burden of current
expenditures. Although foreign aid is likely to be available in the foresee-
able future, it will have to be gradually replaced by domestic resources if
the country is to become more self-reliant. The longer term objective of
fiscal policy therefore should be to raise sufficient local revenue that the
current budget can be balanced and a significant contribution can be made to
the financing of government capital expenditures.
21.       Significant progress has already been made in this respect during
recent years. Current domestic revenue has risen from 73 percent of current
expenditure in 1972/73 to 94 percent in 1975/76, while the current deficit has
declined both in real and absolute terms. During 1976/77 the current budget



- 6 -
was approximately balanced and for 1977/78 a moderate surplus is expected.
These are remarkable achievements for a country of Yemen's early state of
development.
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the Government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the close and friendly relations that
YAR has established with Saudi Arabia and other Arab oil exporting nations
whose vast and still growing wealth is spilling over into YAR in the form of
workers' remittances and aid flows.
23.       Yemen's commodity exports are still extremely low reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy.  During 1973/74-1976/77 they averaged approximately $15 million a
year, or the equivalent of about 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agri-
cultural origin with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodi-
ties. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $730 million in 1976/77. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen Rial,
and the absence of import restrictions. The increase would have been even
stronger had there not been physical constraints - particularly in the Port
of Hodeidah - to transport foreign goods into the country.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's trade
deficit reached about $710 million in 1976/77, almost four times as large as
in 1973/74. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and depends increasingly on its strong surplus position in
the service sec :ors, especially workers' remittances. Net earnings from
services have grown even faster in recent years than the trade deficit. As a
result, the balance on current account which was in deficit until 1974/75,
recorded its first surplus in 1975/76 (US$130 million) which rose to $175 mil-
lion in 1976/77.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least developed country", most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessional loans. Although a complete over-view of all assis-
tance received by the YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can
be estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came close to $750 million by
the end of FY1976/77, of which more than half was disbursed in the last 3
years.
26.       About three-fifths of the total assistance given so far was provided
in the form of non-reimbursable grants, mostly for food aid, technical assis-
tance and more recently, budget support. Food aid has been provided through



- 7-
the World Food Program and a number of bilateral donors. A large part of
official grants has been made available in the form of technical assistance.
Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has
high priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come.
Besides the grants YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits.
Total commitments exceeded $547 million on June 30, 1977 about half of which
has been disbursed. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years,
averaging $47 million in 1975/76 and 1976/77. More than three quarters of
all official loans and credits have been committed for the financing of
specific projects with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including
irrigation, and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
27.       The terms on which the YAR has obtained official loan assistance
have been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of
China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries
have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent but Arab
commodity assistance has been interest-free. Loan maturities generally range
from 5 to 50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       Yemen's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1977 was esti-
mated at $529 million, of which $292 million was disbursed. The major creditors
were IDA, USSR, China, Germany, the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits
accounted for $110 million or about 20 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service payments are
estimated at only about $6 million for 1976/77, equivalent to less than one
percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances).
Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few years, the
burden of such payments should continue to remain small in relation to YAR's
exchange earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign exchange reserves.
At the end of June 1977 they reached $920 million or the equivalent of about
1 year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a rela-
tively high level of foreign aid and last but not least, the country's limited
absorptive capacity. Yemen's imports are still at a low level ($135 per capita
in 1976/77) and are likely to grow rapidly as present physical and administra-
tive bottlenecks are being overcome. Worker's remittances and aid inflows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change sub-
stantially within a relatively short time. Yemen's present comfortable reserve
position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded quickly if
recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained. The reserve posi-
tion has also to be viewed in the context of the country's dependence on agri-
culture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather. A repetition of the
severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would necessitate the import of
foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume adding substantially to the
country's foreign exchange requirements.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
30.       The proposed credit would be the fifteenth to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to $131.8 million. 2/ The utilization trend of the funds from
the ongoing credits has been fairly satisfactory. Disbursements in FY76 were
$10.8 million, in FY77 $19.2 million. At the end of the third quarter of
FY78, total disbursements were $50.6 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects, as of March 31, 1978.
31.       The major focus of World Bank activity in YAR has been to develop
the basic institutions, skills and physical infrastructure, prerequisite for
development, and to assist development, particularly in the dominant produc-
tive sector--agriculture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of $200,000 to help
finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team
of planning and economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of
$200,000 to make possible the continuation and expansion of the planning team
services, was approved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant of
$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning team
including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait Fund
joined with a grant of about $425,000. The team has been and still is instru-
mental in assisting the Central Planning Organization (CPO) in formulating its
development strategy, in preparing policies needed to implement the strategy
and in training Yemeni staff in the CPO. The Bank is also providing technical
assistance for institution building to the Ministry of Agriculture through the
services of seven advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.
The Bank has been asked to continue to act as the Executing Agency for Phase
II of the Project.
32.       To assist in building up the essential physical infrastructure and
related institutions, IDA has extended three credits for highways, for $18.2
million in 1972, 1976, and 1978. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
participated in the financing of the second project with $5 million equivalent.
To expand YAR's inadequate port facilities and to strengthen its management
capabilities, IDA approved in May 1977 a credit of $6 million for a port
development project. The Kuwait Fund participated with $8 million equivalent.
IDA extended a credit for Water supply in Sana'a in 1974 for $6.3 million, a
credit for Water and Sewerage in Hodeidah in 1975 for $8.1 million, and in
December 1976 a credit for the Second Sana'a Water Supply and Sewerage Project
for $10.0 million, all three of which support the National Water and Sewerage
Authority. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development contributed $21
million to finance the sewerage component in the Hodeidah project and $17.1
million to finance the water supply component in the second Sana'a project.
The Saudi Fund for Development provided $14.5 million towards financing part
of the cost of the latter. To assist in the development of education, IDA has
extended two credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million, which together with
1/   Identical to Part II of the President's Report on a Highway III Project
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 17, 1978.
2/   Including a credit of $11.5 million for a Highway III project approved
by the Executive Directors on April 27, 1978.



- 9 -
aid from UNDP, Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and the United Arab Emirates,
financed expansion of teacher training and secondary and vocational education;
and the second for $8 million in 1976, a followup to the first project. To
develop infrastructure and production in YAR's major sector, agriculture and
agro-industries, IDA has provided four credits. The first, $10.9 million in
1973 was for the Tihama Agricultural Development project, to which the Kuwait
Fund contributed $6.4 million; to meet major cost increases, the Kuwait Fund
approved in 1975 a loan of $9.6 million to the project, and IDA also approved
a supplementary credit of $10.3 million in March 1976. The second agricultural
credit of $10.0 million was made for the Southern Uplands Rural Development
project in 1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund participated with $10.0 million.
The third credit of $5.2 million for a Grain Storage and Processing project
was approved in June 1976. The Saudi Fund for Development joined with a loan
of $11.0 million under parallel financing arrangements. A fourth credit of
$5.0 million for a livestock credit and processing project was approved in
October 1976. The Kuwait Fund ($11.6 million), the Netherlands ($8.9 million)
and the UK ($2.4 million) are participating in the financing of the project
under parallel financing arrangements. A $2.3 million credit for an Industrial
Estate project was approved in 1974 and is designed to stimulate investment in
small-scale industry and provide a model for future industrial development.
33.       Future World Bank activity will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation,
agriculture and public utilities, help provide the necessary manpower train-
ing, and continue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and
investment program. Particular attention in preparing future projects will
continue to be given to the country's ability to implement these projects
and to ensuring the availability of key staff and other means needed for
successful implementation. In keeping with this strategy a textiles project,
and a power project were appraised in November/December 1977. An educa-
tion project and an agricultural project in Wadi Mawr are being appraised.
Furthermore, other agricultural projects in Wadi Surdud and the Southern
Uplands, a fisheries project, a water supply and sewerage project in the
cities of Ibb and Dhamar are in the preparation stage. The World Bank lend-
ing strategy recognizes that YAR is among the 29 least-developed countries as
classified by the U.N. and thus requires special assistance, which justifies
IDA financing of a large part of project costs, including local expenditures.
Since project costs are in excess of the limited IDA funds available, efforts
have been made to obtain co-financing from other donors. In addition to its
own commitments of $121.3 million, IDA has also, since 1973, successfully
played a catalytic role through its projects in securing about $143.0 million
equivalent of co-financing from other aid donors (Arab Fund S38.1 million;
Kuwait Fund $41.5 million; Abu Dhabi Fund $11.0 million; United Arab Emirates
$8.0 million; Saudi Fund for Development $25.5 million; UNDP $6.6 million;
FRG $0.58 million; the UK $2.4 million and the Netherlands $8.9 million).
YAR's level of poverty and the weak structure of its balance of payments
in the past justified a large portion of local currency financing by the
Association; however, YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local
currency financing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion
of its development expenditures in the future, Recently, the Bank assisted
the Government in establishing a Project Monitoring System to ensure effec-
tive project implementation and to enable it to measure the progress made



- 10 -
against the set targets. The system is now under implementation and the
Bank has been requested by the Government to continue its assistance in
this field.
34.       The Executive Directors of the International Finance Corporation
approved on April 11, 1978 an investment of $3.15 million to help finance
a dairy and juice project. This is IFC's first activity in YAR.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Setting
35.       Until the late 1960's YAR's agriculture was largely for subsistence,
with a modest marketable surplus sufficient only to supply the needs of tradi-
tional markets of nearby villages and towns. It is estimated that in the
1960's agriculture contributed more than half of GDP and employed about 80-90
percent of the economically active population. The meagre endowment in land,
scant rainfall, primitive technology and the absence of alternative economic
opportunities combined to create an environment of pervasive rural poverty;
the lack of roads kept agriculture isolated from the monetized economy.
Although the conditions that contribute to rural poverty and low agricultural
productivity persist, the changes that have begun to take place in YAR's
economy as a whole in recent years, have accentuated the importance of the
sector and the necessity for its growth and development. The rural poverty
situation has improved as a result of the increased workers' remittances.
36.       The role that agriculture can play in the development of YAR is a
classic one. The impetus for its growth comes from high aggregate demand
for food. The sector is now expected to supply a larger amount of food and
raw materials than in the past, to dampen the rising dependence on agricul-
tural imports induced by rapid increases in domestic demand. With the rapid
growth of other sectors, agriculture's share of total GDP and labor force
can be expected to decline, while agricultural output should continue to
increase. Thus, during the six years for which national accounts are avail-
able, it is estimated that the share of agriculture fell approximately from
53 to 44 percent of total GDP in current prices. Helped by two periods of
favorable rainfall, agricultural GDP at constant market prices grew by 6.8
percent annually during the 1969/70-1975/76 period, compared with about 8.2
percent for the economy as a whole during the same period. A large part of
the increase occurred during the 1973/74-1975/76 period when agricultural GDP
rose by about 20 percent.
37.       The encouraging performance of agriculture during the last few
years occurred in a relatively favorable economic climate and stimulation
by Government, in spite of severe constraints on the growth of the sector.
The high demand for labor in YAR and neighboring countries induced the
emigration of underemployed and unemployed rural labor. Rising rural
labor costs, reflecting higher wages in the country as a whole, were offset
by higher agricultural prices, which have been largely sustained by the



- 11 -
rising price level in the economy and high effective demand for farm pro-
ducts. In areas where natural conditions permit, farmers have also begun
to employ modern agricultural inputs and equipment, expand area planted,
and diversify production away from subsistence crops to cash crops, e.g.
fruits and vegetables. Thus the area planted increased by approximately 22
percent during 1971/72-1975/76, and crop production rose by about 33 percent
during the same period. In the context of high effective demand for agri-
cultural products, however, these achievements have been overshadowed by
increasing dependence on agricultural imports, especially food. The latter
rose in value from YRls 91 million in 1971/72 to YRls 742 million in 1975/76.
Agricultural exports, consisting mainly of cotton, cottonseed, coffee, hides
and skins, which represent 90 percent of total exports, rose from YRls 18 to
only YRls 39 million during the same period.
38.       The emigration of an estimated 20 percent of the rural labor force
from agriculture, and a few years of increasing agricultural production, have
not been sufficient to alleviate the degree of rural poverty. Annual per
capita GDP in rural areas was estimated at YRls 545 ($121) in 1975/76 for
about 90 percent of YAR's resident population. This was less than one-half
of the national average of YRls 1,125 ($250), and also much below the minimum
subsistence requirement of YRls 675-700 ($150-155) per person in 1975/76.
Prospects for Growth
39.       Because agriculture in YAR began its modernization from a relatively
very low base, growth prospects on the basis of higher yields, crop diversifi-
cation and, to a lesser extent, expansion of planted area are promising. This
is the strategy pursued by the Government. The transformation of agriculture,
however, is subject to severe constraints, particularly scarcity of arable
land and shortage of water. Only about 1.5 million ha of land, or 8 percent
of the national territory, are regularly cultivated, mostly with the scant
rainfall of two short rainy seasons per year. Only about 220,000 ha, or 15
percent of the regularly cultivated land, is irrigated by either the seasonal
flow of wadis, or water drawn from wells, springs and streams. Other con-
straints affecting growth of the sector are: (a) widespread sharecropping
arrangements under which tenants bear most costs for raising productivity but
share a small proportion of the benefits; (b) lack of complementary infra-
structure, especially access roads; (c) the restricted use of yield increasing
farm inputs and equipment and; (d) the shortage of skilled managerial and
technical manpower to serve agriculture.
40.       Under the three-year investment program (1973/74-1975/76) and the
First Five Year Development Plan (1976/77-1980/81) the Government has and con-
tinues to attempt to achieve: (a) an annual increase in agricultural produc-
tion of not less than about 5.5 percent; (b) long run self-sufficiency in
basic foodstuffs, with particular emphasis given to cereal crops, oil-seeds,
vegetable and livestock production; (d) improvement in the agricultural trade
balance through the increase of exports, especially cotton, hides and skins,
fresh and canned fish, vegetables and fruits; (d) improvement in the nutri-
tional level of the population; and (e) expansion of agricultural research,
extension and credit. These general objectives imply overcoming the most



- 12 -
pressing institutional constraints and launching investment projects to
increase output and income. With substantial external technical assistance
the Government reorganized and strengthened its Ministry of Agriculture,
established a modern central research station (CARS) in Taiz and several
other experimental stations and nurseries. The Agricultural Credit Bank
and the Agricultural Credit Fund (shortly to be merged) were created and a
regional development authority for the Tihama was established which will
assume full responsibility for agricultural land and water resource devel-
opment, operation and maintenance in the region. Resource surveys and
project feasibility studies were also conducted as prerequisites to future
agricultural investment projects, mainly in the Tihama region. These and
other efforts, however, continue to suffer from the shortage of skilled
manpower which will not be alleviated until the many Yemenis sent to study
abroad return to YAR.
41.       During the present Five Year Plan, initiated in 1977, total allo-
cations for agriculture are set at YRls 2.6 billion ($587.4 million), or
14 percent of total outlays for both the public and private sectors. Public
sector investment in agriculture would be spread among some 50 projects
amounting to about YRls 856.6 milion ($190.4 million), plus YRls 477 million
($106 million) for administering development in the Tihama and YRs 121.6
million ($27 million) for livestock development. Unspecified private sector
investment would amount to about YRls 980 million ($218 million). Irrigated
agriculture and areas with adequate rainfall are assigned high priority in
seeking to achieve increases in yields as high as 54 percent for major cereal
crops.
42.       Reaching the targets set for the agriculture sector in the Plan
will require considerable external financial and technical assistance.
Approximately YRls 1.5 billion (55 percent) of total agricultural outlays
would be financed from domestic sources, of which 18 percent (YRls 263 mil-
lion) would be from government. External financing of about YRls 1 billion
($265 million) would be covered in part by loans and grants from bilateral
and multilateral sources. External assistance is intended not only to fill
the financial gaps of projects but also to overcome major institutional
constraints by supplying substantial technical assistance, until Yemeni staff
have acquired the necesary expertise and experience.
External Assistance
43.       The agricultural sector in YAR has received and will continue to
receive considerable amounts of bilateral and multilateral financial and
technical assistance.
44.       The UNDP has financed institutional support to the Ministry of Agri-
culture, for which the World Bank is executing agency, the Central Agricul-
tural Research Station, and applied agricultural research in the Tihama. The
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) has helped with crop and vegetable research,
and the introduction of fertilizers and plant protection. British technical
assistance to the sector has focused on veterinary services and farm mechan-
ization, and area development studies in Wadi Rima and the Montane Plains.



- 13 -
U.S. assistance has been mainly concerned with sorghum and millet improve-
ment in the highlands, poultry production, and tropical and sub-tropical
fruits. Aid from the Netherlands has expanded from rural health to area
development in southeastern YAR, potato seed production, livestock devel-
opment and of possibilities for irrigation using surface or groundwater in
Wadi Rima. The USSR has contributed to the development of a mechanized
irrigated 1,000 ha experimental farm at Wadi Surdud. In addition, the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic
Development and the Saudi Fund for Development have co-financed with IDA high
priority agricultural projects in the Tihama region and the Southern Uplands.
The Tihama Plain
45.       The YAR's coastal plain known as the Tihama, located along the Red
Sea, ranges in width from 30 km to 60 km and is approximately 400 km in
length. The Tihama plain by virtue of its location, accessibility, relatively
abundant land, reasonably good soils, surface and groundwater irrigation,
moderately diversified production, including livestock, holds the greatest
agricultural potential in YAR. The project activities would be concentrated
in Wadi Rima, one of the seven major wadis which originate in the Western
slopes of the country's highlands and flow westward across the Tihama plain
to the sea. Wadi Rima is about 80 km southeast of Hodeidah, the main port
and commercial center of YAR (see map) and is the second wadi in the Tihama
proposed to be developed through IDA financing. The first was the adjacent
Wadi Zabid, financed under Cr. 386-YAR (Tihama Development Project I) with
supplemental financing provided under Cr. 376-1-YAR, implementation of which
is underway (para. 51). Wadi Mawr would be the third in the Tihama plain that
the Association might assist; the feasibility study for this is being financed
under Cr. 376-YAR. Two other Wadis, Surdud and Siham also hold much potential
for development and are likely to be included in our future program to develop
agriculture in the Tihama.
Tihama Development Authority (TDA)
46.       The TDA was established by the Government in 1973, and according to
its charter, is responsible for implementing, operating and maintaining all
development projects in the Tihama region. It has a board of directors
appointed by the Government and consists of a chairman and eight members. The
chairman who is also the Director General is assisted by expatriate management
and financial advisors.
Project Area - Wadi Rima
47.       The climate in Wadi Rima, akin to that prevailing in the Tihama is
hot and arid with severe dust storms occurring between the months of February
and July. Rainfall is scant and in spite of the high coastal humidity, annual
evaporation is high. The area covered by the project in the Wadi is about
64,000 ha of which about 24,000 ha is regularly or periodically culvitated.
The main source of surface water is Wadi Rima itself which during the two
flood seasons contributes about 75 percent of its annual flow. During the six



- 14 -
months dry period it is reduced to a mere trickle. The present irrigation
system comprises 25 main canals constructed of earth dikes, rubble and brush-
wood deflectors which need to be improved to provide assured and rotational
supplies to cultivators for optimum utilization of the available irrigation
water. The Government with bilateral assistance from the Kingdom of Nether-
lands is undertaking an engineering study for improving the existing irriga-
tion distribution system.
48.       The project area is inhabited by some 44,000 people living in
about 200 villages, only five of which have populations exceeding 1,000.
More than 90 percent of the population is engaged directly in agriculture.
From sample data collected by the British Ministry of Overseas Development
(ODM) it has been estimated that 45 percent of the land holdings are less
than 5 ha and 80 percent less than 10 ha. Only two holdings in Wadi Rima
exceed 250 ha--one of which is a State Farm run by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and is exclusively share cropped and the other is a private family
holding mostly operated by tenant farmers. By tradition the tenancy rights
are secure and in most cases the tenancy passes from father to son. The
prevailing sharecropping arrangement between tenants and land owners is the
outcome of centuries-old tribal system, fostered by tradition and now deeply
entrenched in the country. The system tends to favor the landowners and
thus limits the incentives of the tenants to improve productivity. The
Association has continued a dialogue, initiated with the financing of the
first Tihama project, with the Government on ways of improving the share-
cropping arrangements. The Government has now recognized the need for in-
stituting a more equitable arrangement and has agreed to the inclusion of
a sharecropping study under this project (para. 55).
49.       The average per capita agricultural income of the 5,800 poorest
families or 77 percent of the 7,500 living in Wadi Rima was estimated at $130
in 1977 prices, which is well below the per capita GDP in YAR and less than
the $150 minimum subsistence requirement. Besides low income, the rural
population is beset by inadequate source of potable water and has limited
access to social services. Domestic water is mostly obtained from communally
owned open wells, which are liable to contamination, and where available water
is also taken from irrigation channels and wadi flows. Water collection is
an arduous process, requiring a typical family of six to spend about five
man-hours a day queueing, drawing and transporting water for themselves and
their livestock. The water consumed is often inadequate in quantity and
unhygienic in quality. Waterborne diseases such as amoebic dysentry, cholera
and hepatitis are endemic in Tihama. Except for the one tarmac road connect-
ing Hodeidah with Taiz, which bisects the area from north to south, no road
exists in the area. During the dry season some earth tracks and canals are
used by vehicular traffic for haulage of goods to and from the villages but in
the wet season access to interior areas becomes very difficult and hazardous.
Camels and donkeys are normally used for hauling farm produce to the local
market places at transport rates which are about twice as high as those of
motor vehicles.
50.       Two additional constraints to agricultural development in Wadi Rima
are the prevailing primitive methods of farming and the non-availability of



- 15 -
modern farm inputs especially fertilizers and plant protection chemicals to
combat pests like termites and army worms. The lack of an effective extension
service is largely the cause of these problems. However, in the case of the
latter, unavailability of sufficient credit facilities is also a prime factor.
The proposed project includes components (paras. 55 and 62) the implementation
of which would correct both these deficiencies and some of the others cited
above.
Previous IDA-Financed Projects in the Agricultural Sector
51.       IDA's involvement in this sector commenced in 1973 when it helped
finance the Tihama Development Project I for development of Wadi Zabid. This
was followed by three additional agricultural and agro-industrial projects.
The Tihama Development Project I, co-financed with Kuwait Fund, should be
completed on schedule (December 31, 1978) in spite of start-up difficulties
and cost overruns in its early years. A second project, the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project, co-financed by the Abu Dhabi Fund, is progressing
very satisfactorily. The third project for Grain Storage and Processing,
co-financed by the Saudi Fund, is progressing well. The Livestock Credit and
Processing Project, approved in 1976, is co'financed by the Kuwait Fund, the
Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Since overcoming startup difficulties
during the first year, mainly due to cost overruns, delays in contracting
consultants, securing land for farms and abbattoirs, and securing counterpart
Yemeni staff, this project is now progressing satisfactorily. As executing
agency for the UNDP-financed Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agricul-
ture the Bank is helping YAR overcome its institutional constraints in the
sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
52.       The proposed Tihama Development Project II for the Wadi Rima is a
follow up of the Tihama Development Project I (Wadi Zabid) for which an IDA
Credit was signed in May 1973, and a Supplementary Credit in April 1976. It
is based in part on an investment plan prepared by the Land Resources Division
of the U.K. Ministry of Overseas Development (LRD/ODM) for the Wadi Rima area
of the Tihama coastal plain. The project was appraised in October 1977.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 4 to 6, 1978. The YAR delega-
tion was headed by H. E. Mohammed Al Khadem Al Wajih, Minister of Agriculture.
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Tihama Development Project II (Wadi
Rima), Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 1938b-YAR) dated April 19, 1978 is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
Credit and the Project are mentioned in the Credit and Project Summary and in
Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives
53.       The project aims at:  (i) increasing agricultural production and
farm income by providing technical assistance and facilitating use of farm



- 16 -
inputs and marketing of the farm produce; (ii) improving health of rural
poor by providing potable water supply to a population of about 44,000;
(iii) evaluating the groundwater and surface water potential of the project
area for its future optimal use; (iv) investigating a low cost solution for
water diversions from wadis in the Tihama region to the irrigation fields;
(v) improving working conditions of the staff by providing a suitable head-
quarters to the Tihama Development Authority for efficient implementation
of Tihama Development Projects and; (vi) assisting in continuation of the
urgently needed institutional support to the Ministry of Agriculture and
support for the Central Agricultural Research Station at Taiz.
Project Description
54.       The project comprises:  (i) agricultural development of Wadi Rima
which is adjacent to Wadi Zabid (Tihama Development Project I); (ii) con-
structing headquarters for Tihama Development Authority (TDA) in Hodeidah;
and (iii) providing funds towards the cost of Phase II of the UNDP Projects
for Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central
Research Station at Taiz. A brief description of these components follows.
Wadi Rima Development
55.       The agricultural development of Wadi Rima would include:  (a) set-
ting up agricultural services for extension, pest control and animal health.
For this purpose the project would provide: (i) three expatriate experts to
train and guide the required cadre of workers; (ii) 30 man-months of short
term consultancy services for conducting studies and advising on criteria for
equitable cost and cropsharing between landowners and tenants, prevailing
date palm and banana diseases, farm mechanization, fruit and vegetable market-
ing and, baseline surveys of existing social and economic conditions; (iii)
two demonstration farms; (iv) 100 man-months of overseas training to extension
agents and Yemeni counterparts and; (v) extension centers and training equip-
ment; (b) providing medium and short term credit to farmers for purchases of
farm machinery and equipment and inputs, including seeds, fertilizers and
pesticides; (c) constructing 106 km of gravel access roads to link the impor-
tant centers of population and agriculture with the Taiz-Hodeidah road which
traverses the project; (d) installing water supply systems for about 64
villages or groups of villages involving deepening and protecting the existing
wells, furnishing and installing pumping machinery, reservoirs and reticula-
tion systems and, providing potable water to the rural population through
stand pipes located within easy reach; (e) hydrometeorological monitoring
involving continued observations of groundwater behavior, surface water flows
and weather data at stations established during project preparation, and con-
ducting additional investigations to evaluate the safe yield of the aquifer;
(f) constructing a gabion test structure in the wadi with technical assis-
tance from the British Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM) to observe its
hydraulic performance and structural behavior during two flood seasons. ODM
would arrange the laboratory testing of their proposed design, furnish specif-
ications of the materials to be used, assist TDA in the procurement of the
materials and supervise and coordinate construction of the prototype test
structure. In case the test proves successful then it would be possible to



- 17 -
adopt the design for future projects on Tihama wadis or on other similar
streams. In addition to the experts for the agricultural services, the proj-
ect would provide services of four expatriate civil engineers, an expatriate
hydrologist and an expatriate pump foreman to strengthen TDA's engineering
management.
TDA Headquarters
56.       The TDA's present headquarters is at Zabid which is the center of
activity of Tihama Development Project I, due for completion in December 1978.
From 1979 TDA would be operating the Wadi Zabid works, supervising prepara-
tion of the proposed investments in Wadi Mawr, Wadi Siham and Wadi Surdud and
commencing implementation of the proposed Wadi Rima project, all in the Tihama
region. The movement of TDA's headquarters to Hodeidah is essential to cen-
tralize the staff for the overall and effective implementation of the several
projects in the region. Due to lack of accommodation and medical, educational
and other facilities in Zabid, TDA has been finding it extremely difficult to
recruit and retain qualified Yemeni staff. The move to Hodeidah would allevi-
ate this problem. The existing accommodation in Wadi Zabid would be used by
the Wadi Rima project implementation staff and Wadi Zabid project's opera-
tional staff. The headquarters camp would comprise about 35 houses, an office
building, storage enclosures, a warehouse, and a vehicle repair shop. The
Government would furnish land in Hodeidah to TDA for the construction of the
headquarters. The allocation of land by the Government would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Central Research Station at Taiz
57.       To assist the Government in overcoming the constraints of lack of an
effective agricultural infrastructure, primitive agricultural technology and
the acute shortage of skilled agricultural manpower at all levels, the UNDP
approved two projects in 1973, namely: (a) Institutional Support to the
Ministry of Agriculture; and (b) the Central Agricultural Research and Train-
ing Organization, Taiz. The duration of both projects is five years and they
are due to close on September 30, 1978 and June 30, 1978 respectively. The
objectives and scope of these projects are:
(a) Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture. To create
an agricultural service which would facilitate effective utiliza-
tion of the country's own agricultural resources and of external
assistance in the fields of agriculture and enhance the capability
of the Ministry to absorb an increased amount of foreign technical
and capital assistance for agricultural development. To this end,
seven experts were employed.
(b) The Central Agricultural Research and Training Organization, Taiz
(CARS). To initiate agricultural research in the fields of
agronomy (field and vegetable crops), horticulture, plant breeding,
entomology, plant pathology, soils and water, economics and sta-
tistics and administration. A training component was included for



- 18 -
fellowships as well as for the training of local extension agents
for the agricultural projects underway in the Taiz area. To this
end seventeen experts were employed.
58.       In general, both projects achieved their objectives but at a slower
pace than was anticipated because of the financial constraints experienced by
UNDP and the acute shortage of suitably qualified Yemeni counterparts. In
view of the importance of agriculture to the YAR economy it is important that
both projects be continued for a second five-year phase. More so because of
the ambitious targets that the Government seeks to achieve under the First
Five Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81) which will require a well organized, trained
and expanded Ministry of Agriculture to implement the program supported by an
expanded and coordinated applied national agricultural research program. The
second phase of Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture would
essentially continue the objectives of the original UNDP project with greater
emphasis on coordination of current and future project activities together
with the monitoring and evaluation of on-going projects including those in
forestry. The team would be increased from seven to ten. The second phase
of the applied agricultural research project will build on the institution,
training and basic agricultural work established under the original UNDP
project. It will involve coordinating as well as directing the applied agri-
cultural research work in secondary research stations in various ecological
zones and will assist toward disseminating applied research results to farmers
by demonstration and liaison and through extension services provided under
externally financed projects. It will also assist and advise the Agricultural
Research Council of the Ministry of Agriculture which will be set up under the
First Five Year Plan. The expert team would comprise the project director
and 13 experts in agronomy, extension, agricultural economics, soils plant
pathology, entomology, horticulture and animal husbandry, together with 15
junior experts. The Government has proposed that the financing of the foreign
exchange costs of the second phase of the two UNDP projects be met jointly by
UNDP and the Government under a cost-sharing arrangement and has requested
assistance from IDA and the European Economic Community's special fund (EEC)
to meet part of its financial obligations.
Project Implementation
59.       The project would be implemented over five years.  Project activities
are expected to commence by September 1978. The civil works and procurement of
equipment would be completed by June 1981 while the agricultural services,
credit, Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and CARS activities
would continue until June 1983. Except for the Institutional Support to the
Ministry of Agriculture and CARS, TDA (para. 46) would be responsible for
implementing the project. Three managerial posts have been provided in TDA to
head the engineering, agricultural and administrative directorates. The proj-
ect's engineering, agricultural and administrative staff would be attached
to these respective directorates. Because of shortage of trained personnel
in YAR, it would not be possible in the immediate future to fill the senior
posts in the project with experienced Yemeni personnel. Consequently, these
positions would be filled, in the first instance, by expatriate experts pro-
vided under the project. The Government has agreed that all senior posts



- 19 -
which cannot be filled by Yemeni staff of requisite experience would be filled
by expatriate staff whose qualifications and terms and conditions of appoint-
ment would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02(ii) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The average cost of one man-year of expert's services is
estimated at $44,000 plus housing, utilities and transportation. TDA is
currently successfully implementing the Tihama Development Project I and with
the assistance of the additional expatriate staff provided under the proposed
project, it would be able to implement this project. The agricultural credit
to the farmers would be disbursed by the Agricultural Credit Fund which
is already satisfactorily handling credit disbursement on four of the IDA
financed agricultural projects in YAR.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The cost of the project including contingencies is estimated at
$39.5 million with a foreign exchange component of $25.8 million. The pro-
posed IDA credit of $10.5 million would finance under parallel financing
arrangements the foreign exchange cost of: (i) project management, agricul-
tural services, hydrometeorological monitoring and a gabion test structure for
the Wadi Rima agricultural development ($3.80 million); (ii) TDA headquarters
construction ($2.43 million); and (iii) a part of the second phase of the
two UNDP projects ($4.27 million). A grant of $1.22 million from EEC and an
expected grant of $1.50 million from UNDP would also partially finance the UNDP
projects. The balance of the foreign exchange costs ($12.55 million) would be
financed by other external cofinancer(s). The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development has expressed its readiness to join in cofinancing. The Govern-
ment would finance the local costs. The signing of a loan agreement between
the Government and the other external source(s) of financing would be a con-
dition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Recovery and Financial Aspects
61.       Village water supply, agricultural credit and investment for higher
productivity at the farm level are the only income generating activities of
the project. Due to the pervasive poverty of the rural population no direct
recovery of village water supply investments is proposed although 50 percent
of the Zakat, a religious tax, and the cooperative tax both collected by the
Government will accrue to the Local Development Associations (LDAs), which
exist in all rural areas of YAR, and which inter alia finance community im-
provement of this type. By the fifth year of the project, the Zakat and
cooperative tax are expected to contribute an additional YRls 3 million
annually to the YRls 6.2 million that is presently collectible. The full
operations and maintenance costs of village water supply will, however, be
borne by the beneficiaries, through annual assessments averaging not less
than YRls 17 per capita per year. The Government agreed that the communities
benefiting from the village water supply, save those provided with hand pumps,
would be charged for full costs of operation and maintenance of the system
(Section 3.06 (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Agricultural Credit
62.       Resources sufficient to finance 80 percent of the incremental farm
inputs and equipment and to expand the agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) to
enable it to include Wadi Rima in its operations would be supplied from the
proceeds of the external loans and the Government's contribution. According
to the present practice the proceeds for agricultural credit, up to $2.18
million including contingencies, would be repaid by ACF to government at 4
percent per annum interest over 15 years, with an initial grace period of five
years. Individual farmers would borrow from ACF at 9 percent per annum for
short term and 8 percent per annum for medium and long term loans in line with
the previous IDA financed agricultural projects, and will contribute at least
20 percent of the total amount needed for input and equipment. In order to
enable ACF to begin operations in Wadi Rima on schedule with sufficient
liquidity, the Government would advance from its own resources or from the
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), not later than December 31, 1978, YRls 2 mil-
lion to establish a revolving fund to finance the credit needs of the first
year (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Markets and Prices
63.       The agricultural surplus expected from Wadi Rima and the construc-
tion of access roads in the area will contribute to accelerating the market
orientation of the Tihama's agriculture. With some diversification into vege-
table and fruits in the well irrigated areas and higher yields in Wadi Rima as
a whole, the net value of crop production will increase from approximately
YRls 26 ($5.8) million to YRls 48 (10.7) million in the sixth year. Except for
cotton, the entire output from the project will be for domestic consumption
and will help reduce imports. Coarse grains production is expected to exceed
the subsistence requirements of Wadi Rima, thus enabling producers to sell
their surplus at the weekly markets in nearby towns along the Tihama. The
additional production of fodder from sorghum, maize and millet, will be mostly
fed to livestock in Wadi Rima, and the excess over subsistence requirements
will be sold in other neighboring areas to alleviate the acute shortage of
animal feed in the Tihama region. Vegetables and fruits are presently scarce
in YAR.  They are in great demand in towns and cities such as Hodeidah, Taiz
and Sana'a and command high prices. Steps will be taken to improve their
marketing arrangements based on the recommendations of the consultants'
marketing study financed under the project (para. 55).
Prices
64.       The high effective demand for all agricultural commodities in YAR
is expected to keep farm prices high. Farmers in areas of the Tihama such
as Wadi Rima enjoy a comparative advantage vis-a-vis other regions by virtue
of the sub-tropical climate and location. Consequently, even with higher
input and labor costs, the production of domestically consumed agricultural
commodities is expected to remain profitable in the Tihama Region. Improve-
ments in marketing efficiency, due to the lower cost of transportation and
better organization, would be reflected in lower margins between producers
and consumers, rather than in prices paid to producers.



- 21 -
Procurement
65.       Contracts for the construction of TDA's headquarters camp ($5.11
million) and for all the IDA financed equipment ($1.04 million) except for
minor items required for immediate use and valued at less than US$50,000 each
with an aggregate value not exceeding US$200,000, would be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits", March 1977. Other civil
works to be financed under the credit, e.g. agricultural services, hydro-
meteorological monitoring and gabions test structure ($1.97 million), are
small in size and scattered in nature and therefore would not be suitable
for international bidding. They would thus be constructed either through
force account or under Government's local procurement procedures which are
acceptable.
Disbursement
66.       Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made on the basis of
100 percent of the foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and 80
percent of local expenditures of imported goods procured locally, 46 percent
of the construction cost of TDA headquarters camp and 30 percent of the
construction cost of other IDA financed civil works, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures of expatriate experts and training, and 36 percent of foreign
costs of the institutional support to the Ministry of Agriculture and to the
Central Research Station. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by
mid-1983.
Economic Benefits
67.       The project would generate substantial economic and social benefits.
Readily quantifiable economic benefits consist mainly of the increase in the
net value of crop production, estimated at YRls 20.8 ($4.6) million annually
at economic prices upon full development. Unquantifiable economic benefits
consist of those derived from the full impact of access roads in Wadi Rima,
the Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central
Agricultural Research Station. Some of these benefits, which are expected to
have a long term impact on the development of YAR's agriculture are, inter
alia, the training of qualified manpower, the adoption of higher yielding
varieties of crops and effective plant protection techniques, and higher
administrative efficiency in the institutions serving agriculture. Among the
social benefits the most evident are those accruing to most, if not all, of
the resident population of 44,000 due to better water supply, greatly reduced
isolation as a result of the construction of access roads within reach of all
villages, and future community improvement projects that the LDAs would
undertake with their increased share of tax revenue.
Farm Income and Employment
68.       The income for some 3,700 farm families in the Wadi Rima area would
increase substantially as a result of both project investment in extension,
credit and roads, as well as the expanded use of inputs and equipment. Net



- 22 -
farm income would increase from an average of $1,298 per farm family to about
$1,970 or 52 percent for all farms in irrigated areas. Due to the limita-
tions imposed by water resources, however, increases in farm income vary
from only 21-31 percent in spate irrigated areas to 78-106 percent in well
irrigated areas. Income distribution between tenants and landowners would
improve when landowners assume a share of production costs proportional to
their share of the crop as agreed in principle by the Government. Definite
guidelines for cost and crop sharing between landowners and tenants would be
adopted upon completion of a study of the subject, provided in the project.
The Government agreed to submit the findings of the study to IDA and to
implement the agreed recommendations (Section 3.07 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The principal employment effects of the project in Wadi
Rima consist of the full utilization of the family farm labor force of about
8,500 persons and the need for an additional 1,100-1,500 man-years of hired
farm labor at full development. Hired labor would be mainly drawn from the
resident labor force. Moreover, during project implementation an estimated
500 man-years of labor would be employed in civil works construction and
about 150 new jobs would be created for project management and agricultural
services.
Economic Rate of Return
69.       The economic rate of return for only the quantifiable stream of
benefits is estimated to be 30 percent. The rate of return is more sensitive
to delays in generating benefits rather than to increases in project costs
or reductions in project benefits. Consequently, a combination of unfavor-
able factors such as one year delay, 15 percent increase in costs and 10
percent shortfall in benefits, would reduce the rate of return to 15 percent.
Risks
70.       The risks inherent in this project arise from the possibility of
drought and the shortage of agricultural manpower, including farm labor at
peak periods. The risks from drought are minimized in several ways, although
there is little protection against crippling drought caused by failure of the
monsoon rains during several consecutive years. When the monsoon rains are
late or fail, which occurs about twice every ten years, farmers simply post-
pone planting until the rains come, with the attendant loss in income. A
prolonged drought, which can occur once every twenty years, would severely
affect the project by reducing the wadi flows and lowering the water table.
Concerning the latter, the project is financing a groundwater study to deter-
mine the tolerable limit of groundwater extraction. The study of feasible
irrigation from the wadi, including the more efficient use of irrigation
water, will be financed by the Netherlands. The application of its results
should contribute to reducing risks from irregularities in the availability
and use of surface water. A more likely risk is a continued escalation in
labor wages, with the consequence that recruitment of staff at all levels
and the availability of farm labor could cause delays and raise costs. This
problem has been anticipated and the Government intends to contract expa-
triates when Yemeni staff are not available. Concerning the scarcity of
farm labor and rising farm wages, it is expected that this factor would be
compensated by population growth in the area and higher produce prices. In



- 23 -
the event that higher farm labor wages would reduce relative prices to pro-
ducers, it is expected that farmers would begin to mechanize certain opera-
tions which are presently done by labor-intensive methods. A short term
consultant to study farm mechanization is included in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Features of special interest in the draft Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of credit effective-
ness are: (i) the allocation of land by the Government for TDA's head-
quarters in Hodeida (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement) and (ii) the signing of Loan Agreement(s) between the Government
and other external co-financiers (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Article of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 3, 1978



- 24-                                                      MNEX I
Page 1 of 4
TABLE SA
YEMEN ARAB REP        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)---I---------- ----
---------------                        ~~~~YEMEN ARAB RE!                        REFERENCE COUNTRIE:. (1970)
TOTAL        195.0                                           MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       15.2                          1960        1970   ESTIMATE              AFGHANISTAN    NEPAL             JORDAN****
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                            ...                 250.0*                100.0*        70.0*       330.0k
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MiD-YR. MILLION)                             5.5**       6.0**               12.3         11.3          2.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.               ..                      28.0        31.0                 19.0         80.0         24.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICuLTURAL LAND               .       36Z.0      395.0                  96.0        284.0        165.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BRITH RATE (/THOU. AV)               .         50.5 /a    45.8                  48.7         44.          47.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE C/THOU.AV)                ..        24.1 7'? 26.9                    27.6         24.6          17.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)               .          .       159.0                     .       200-300        3,5.3 (a,b,oi
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             ..          ..       37.0                  37.8         40.6         5). 7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    ..         3.5         3.S                  3.4          3.0           3.5
POPULATION C1OWTH RATE                   ~.                          .*~a2221:.
TOTAL                                                             19*/                   .            .
URBAN                                      ..          ..         8.0                  5.2          3.9
URBAN PCPULATION 1% OF TOTAL)                 .                     7.0                  10.7          4.)1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          43.3        44.1        46.8                  43.2            ..        4) .O/a
15 TO 84 YEARS                          54.0        53.2        49.7                  54.2            ..        49.5Tha
65 YEARS AND DYER                         2.7         2.7         3.5                  2.6            .           3.571a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9         0.9         1.0                   0.8           . .         1./a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    ..           ..        2.2/b                  2..                       .47jad
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS 1CUMULATIVE. THOU)               ..          .            ...                            86.5
USERS Ct OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 .                                              
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)                  ...                1140.0 /o                                        35c.0 /a!
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE  W%                .           .        73.07 oTc.                                      33.0   A:
UNEMPLOYED (2 OF LABOR FORCE)                 .......                                                              14.0 /a
INCOME DISTRIBJTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC 0 BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS..                            ..          ...
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS...                                       ...
LOWEST  202 OF HOUSEHOLDS                  .            ..
LOWEST  402 OF HOUSEHOLDS...                                       ....
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                  .           .... 
2 OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS...                                     ...
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               1435Q000   33340.o   23260.0                  14e0806      49770.0o/a   2660.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                 .           . 16830.0                  21090.0      356C0. 072a b 105o0.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                                     2060.0                     .       6750.0'        960.)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)             82.0        71.0       83.0                  60.0         94.0          94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMAS PER DAY)                 65.0        62.9       58.3                  56.0         52.0          60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               ..       14.9/b    14.1                    11.0         11.0         16i. 0/e
DEATH RATE 1/THOU) AGES 1-4                   ..          .                                 ...5.3/b
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHIOOL                           8.0        30.0       23.0                  21.0/a       26.0          73.0o/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                          0.2         1.0         2.0                  6.7   . 07.               33.07ja
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED 
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   ..        12.9        12.0                 12.0          10.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                           ..         2.2         3.0                  4.0          6.0           30a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                    10.0           ..        0.0                  iO.0         14.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                      ...                   3.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER 1%)..                                      .         90570/.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY90570b
(5 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                        ,..                   4.6
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%C..                                    .         1.3
CONSUMPTION
RADID RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)..~                                   13.0                 21.0          5.0        160.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)                 :            ..                              .            .             .
EETIIY(KWH/YR PER CAP)                2.0'       3.0          7.0                 32.0          6.0         72.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     ...                     ..0.1                              .0.3
…--   - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -     -  - - -  - -  -- - -  - -  - -  - - -  - --- …-…-- - -    - -  -- -  -- - 
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 25 -
ANNlEX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
unase otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer, to any year betw,een 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 cod 1970, and for Meet Recas.t Estimate between
19 73 end 1975.
GNP per capita, data are based 00 the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 beets).
0Popoiattoo Includes reeidente living abroad which i. esatimated et 1.2 million to 1975.
000 flu  to eeigration populatino growth rate is lon,er than the rate of natural incroe.e.
0000- jordan baa been aelected as en objective country for Yaeo Arab Republic inet both are Arab countri.e with similar ocoonmic Sytet,ou; have0
important mitneral racoorcee, have large  -btasbc  of enifrente oboes rmitrtance  oobetaotialy fi-nooc  the toport till, cod both depend on
foreign oil to support iarge portions of their curret and governist nupeoditurfa.
YEWNO ARAB REP.    1970    /a  Estimated birth and death ratee for 1970 are 47.3 and 79.7 reuper,ti-ely;    lb  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTD(4AE;       /a  1972-75;    lb  Ratio of resident populorion under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
Ie  Labor fetes reletee to resident population of 4.7 nill ion onlyv.
AFGHIANISTAN         1970    Ia  Public eduction only;    /b  Perenttage of pOpuiation.
NEP41L               1970    /a  Personnel in g-,overnmnt services;    /b  Including nidwive.
JO0RDAN              1970    La  Besot Bank only;    lb  1966;    /   Registered only;    /d  Ratio of population under 13 and 65 cod ove  to totci
labor force;      e  1964-66;    77f  Including UNRWAAshos
R4, March 27, 1979
DZDUPTIOnSo OF SOCLI n1DICATORS
LadArea (thew1-                                                                          populatin Par -urine person - Popuistion divided by s,aber of praticing
Totsl   Total    fareeras oariisa land are  ad island  sisr.                                  eels and fsnal grads.tseuae  "traised  or "etfd"nrs,and
cArlo  - Mast resent estmate at agricultural are  used tosepor-rly or pares-                  sailiary peon-ne with tretning or epe-ien,e
nealy for orop, pastures, narbet & kitchen garden  or to lie fislor.                      P.9ulstion nan hoseital bed - Population divded by  -arkr of hsapits1 beds
avilable in publin and private general andsciied  hospitel and
CNLaPer -,rita 'MIH) - GNP? par capita esttmates at currant market prices,                    rehabtiltation casca; enciudas nursing bones and esteblislheete  for
oI..uatad bys      cnvrion method as World Bank utlsa (1973-75 bests);                     custodial end pavntivecae
1960; 1970an  1975 data.                                                                  Pen caciti ,surly of caores           of Caurst) -fuputad fron snergy
equivalent of net food supplies avilable in coutry per capita Par day;
ponItcmon and vital statistic,                                                                available   .V supitescopris  doCse.ti  production, imports lees eeporte, sod
Powaion,id-year aillife)   us of July first:  if not available, ~ovrge                    changs- in atok; nt eupplice escl,ds  -etsl fesd, seeds, quatities ueed
of ten end-year estimates; 1)?60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                       in food pruca..sing and bases in distribution; requir~nts were estimated
by FAQ based on phys.iolojical neads for nornsi ac.tivity and hsaltb conaid-
pMeulatmondensity -tnan  Ksaeh      id-nec pepultien par aqur  kil-et,                        acing  -oir-tal tanp-rtur, body weighta, sag  end  -e  distribution  of
(lI   Iscae)of  tate urea.                                                                  pouaion, en  slmgg 10% for .t w atae houshold 1a-e1.
ponletim  densit -_per sonat 60 of aarto, land - CoaPuced  a above for                      Pe cnia nal, of orotain lrarse  Par days - Protein content of Psr capita
egetositoral land only.                                                                     set suppiy of fend Par day; net supply of food is dafined as ebov; requir-
ants fo  all coutries, atablitehd by UISDA Eo-niC Rm...srb Servic..
Vital atatiatics                                                                              provide f or s imasaileas . anne of 6R Eras of total protain par day, end
Crude bir,th roa 2   rhm,ad ovaras  - Annua  liva births Par thousand of                      20 gras of anima  sand pulse prorte, of which 10 gras  huid he animal
mid-yer poplatin  ea.year Iarithlastie avaraga andi.g in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; thoea  standards are bar, than thae of 75 gras of total pretin
and fiv-yea  avrage ending in 1975 for meat recat estisat-.                                 sod 23 gras of anaisia protein ass aveag  for the snrld, propoed by FAO
Crude death rate -r thsuaodZ. encase - Annualdeaths par thousad sf mid-yea                    in the Third World Food Survy.
popesiaton; tan-year erith-ti   ravrge  enading in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-                 Per cenita nrotsin sunniy fr- animal and put.s - Protein supply of food
ye oavrga endin,g im 1975 for mast recent aetimata.                                    derived iron an-mla ad pulses in groas par day.
Inet rtalito   rate f/th.wS - Annual deaths of imfauts under one year of age           Death raet  f/thou) easea 1-  - Ao-nuI deaths par thcueand in age gr,oup 1-4
pa=tsand live hirtha.                                                                      years, to  hbildren in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Lfe amesa`y at birth fyrel - Average auuher of yeasr  of life rsaasening at                  malnutrition.
birth;,amity five-year, average ending in 196, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
1mg notatrima.                                                                            gdnatiou
Grass rerroduotios rate - Average nosber of live daughters aae   ill hear                   Adi,td encoillat ratio - rimsry school - E-1rsilmat oc all ege  as Par-
in her n.oel reproductive period if she experience Present age-aPacific                     corage of prinry sooli-age  populatio; tIides chil  en aged 6-i1 years
fertility rates; uselly fiv-year overagma ending in 196, 1970 end 1975                      bet edjusted for different lngths of primary, edcction; for coutries with
for developig Countries                                                                     unie-rea1 edu..stiun, enroIllnt nay exced 100. since sas  ppls are bela
Ponusime grads rte I)-totaI - Capuceed oanual. greth rate of maid-year                   or abov  the officialc1     o  ag..
Poplto  for l9195-0   96-70 an   907.Adj1usted -enlIMet.rat,io  - eaouar shool - Caputed e. abov; secondary
ponosstio eroth rte (A -  rban  --Cnptad liermsth rate of total                       edcto   aurea   es oryear  of approvd primsry instrution;
population; different def4iitiona, of urban areas nay affect - araility of                  provides general, vstional or teac,har training mne tructiona for pupila
datea enong countrIes,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of aga; -srr-pondece core   -  generally  aecludd.
Urbe  Jowlton ft of totall - Ratio of urban to total population; different                  Years of ach tlingeroided Ifist and second levelal - Total years of
deinitions, of arban arese may affect enparbhility of data Casn  og cuertas                 scoln;a-soeeyse, vonotina1 inatrutiot may he partially or
ae tucue orcent) - Children (0-14 years) , woking-age (15-64 years),                Oucatle-1 enr.limat Cb of sec ondary) - Vfortional iuetitution    include
and  etird  16  yeas so  ovr) as parcutagas of mid-year Popuiation.                  tehnical, inutIa  or other p-g-ca  which operate indepen,denlyora
Ant dependenyratYio  - cstie of population under 15 and A5 and ovr to those                   deparnuents of secondary institutions .
of sge  15crag   4                                                                         dult literacy rate  (1) - Literate adoItta (able to red and wits) as per-
c,,nic"deeodc =     ratio  - Ra.tIo of popution  nd-r 15 sod 63 and over to. cetege of total adult population agd I) yar  ood over.
the labor force i  age grop cc 15-64 ynsru.
Fatly e_l1los,-acestie1rs    ' Ie,n talrlvn  hou) - C.-lative nub.r of accptors             Houing
ofbrhcnrldevce  under, ..upi... of national fatily planing pr-grea               Peron pe   oltra)-Aeaonn                      fprosPerro   oocpe
sinc,e inop.o.                                                                              conventionel dwellings in urban areas; du,ellingeestlude non-permnent
FatIo el1nine -ners It, of maried woe) - percentage  of maried wone  of                       sttru _ue  and unaccpied Parts.
ohild-bs..rig ge(34 yare) who use bir,th-cotrol devices to all married                    Ouid w lins   ithout nId watr It)-  ccpied co-vesiaa  dwelliuge
wR.insn  g  group.                                                                  in urbanad ral-swipthotinside or -uraids Piped wate  facilitiss
sa:prcen tage of alI oucupied dwelligs.
REolerant                                                                                   Aces ta electricityI   faldeiss                 C--tn tionel dweilinga with
Total labordfernsj(,thausad) -  ounalically active p-onss, inclding a,ened                    electricit  In iiigqatr   apoetof total dwnillgs in urban and
foreadunmlyed ht .eclding housiv-, students, etc.; dsfiitios                                rura  a-as.
ic caon  countries  -r  not capareble.                                                    Rural dwellinss cunnected cc elcrciy        C)-Cnptsd as aboe for rurs1
Labor force in enri-ultur  (I    - AgriouItar1 labor forts (in feenig, foretry,               dwellings only.
bunting and fishing) as p-artenige of total labor fain5.
learplayed ft of labor force)  t-Anployd are usually defined as parsons who                 Coseeution
are able and willing ts take   jab, out of a job on a give  day, reestnd out              Radioreses 1per thou sot) - Ali types of re-iv-ra  for radio broacas..ts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified mainima  Period nat ascending one                to geeeraJ public par thones..d of population; ecludee unlicensd recei-ra
weak;masy net becParable betwee  countries due to differet defInition                        in coutrima and ie years when registration of radio sate wa  in affa-t;
ef anmployd anCd aourc  of data, e.g., aaplyoynnt office statistics, sapl                   data for rssnt years nay not be caparable sines most coutries abolished
surrYs, conpuls-y unaploynet larsc                                                           icning.
Passenger cars Itrhoru)-Passenger car  conprisr nro   cars seating
Incas  !ditributLon - Pretg ofpiaencs(thin cash ad kind)                                      lethnsgtproascludes abeloo , herarses and military
reevdby richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                 rehicia..
hai1a.                                                                                    Eetricitydfe/r   r tee) - Annual ronuption of industrial, csanarcial,
pu;blic  o  privates electricity in kilowatt hours Per capita, gene.rally
Distribution of land   --erhic - Perr...t.f.. of land ownd by wealthiest 10%                   base.d an production data, without al1owa.r. for lessee in grids but alle-
sod poorest 10% of land onnr.-                                                              tog for imports and eports of electr,icity.
Ne'esrint f kg/yr pe ioar   - Per c-pIrt  anua  co.n. I   prt    in kilograss
HelhadNtrition                                                                          saiatd fra doetcproduction Plus net iport  of nenprint.
Pu1ultion, per, physfiani - Pepulation divided by II er of practicing
physicians qualified fras. a nedical school at university leve.



- 26 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS           ANNEX I
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
US$ Min.    %
GNP at Market Prices         1,630      100
Gross Domestic Investment    260         16
Gross National Saving          390       24
Current Account Balance        130        8
Exportsof Goods, NFS            65        4
Importsof Goods, NFS           414       25
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value  Added       Labor Force   V. A. Per Worker
(US$Mlf)      %      Thous.  %      US $          %
Agriculture                  512        45      800   73         640         61
Industry                     117        10       90    8      1,300        123
Services                     522        45      200   19       2,610        247
Total/Average         1,151       100    1,090  100       1,056        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1972/73    1973/74    1974/75         1975/76
YR Million -…-------  % of GNP
Current Revenue                        199        277          381      565         8
Current Expenditure                    272         323        472       604         8
Current Deficit                       -73         -46         -91       -39        -1
Development Expenditures                57         139         185      340         5
External Assistance (net)              117         239         536      609         8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
--------------- June 30 -------------------------
1972     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977
------- (YR Million Outstanding End Period)
Money Supply                           348      489       640       964    2,028    3,516
Bank Credit to Gov't. Sector           103      102        70      -162     -407      -939
Bank Credit to Non-Gov't Sector        108      169       238       394       566    1,474
(Percentages of Index Numbers)
Money Supply as % of GNP                15       16        17        18        28
Consumer Price Index                    ..       ..       154       203      237       329
(1972 = 100) /1
Annual percentage increaseU n:
Money Supply                         29        41        31        51      110        73
Consumer Price Index                  ..       ..        ..        32       17        39
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/   For Sana'a only (fiscal years)          2/  During fiscal year ending June 30.
. Not available



-27 -             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77
------ Million US$ ----------
Exports of Goods, fob                 14        13        12         19
Imports of Goods, cif                194       258       382       730
Trade Deficit                       -180      -245      -370      -711
Non Factor Services, net              14         17        21        -3
Factor Income, net                   117       203       479        889
Workers' Remittances, net          112       191       457       842
Investment Income, net               5        12        22        47
Balance on Current Account           -49       -25       130       175
M & LT Capital, net                   62       126       158        146
Official Grants                     33        93       114       104
Official Loans, net                 29        33        44        42
Disbursements                     32        37        47        46
Repayments                        -3        -4        -3        -4
Other Capital, net 1/                 11        -3        -2       126
Increase in Reserves (-)             -24       -98      -286      -447
Gross Reserves (end fiscal
year)  2/                           89       187       473       920
EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1977          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
US $ Mln.                                  %
Total outstanding             529     Cotton and Cotton Products  59
of which disbursed         292      Coffee                         12
3                 HRides & Skins                 12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO-34OR 1976/77       All other commodities           17
_             Total                     100
Total outstanding
and disbursed              1        IBRD/IDA LENDING                  US$ milL.
(as of March 31, 1978)           IBRD  IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and Disbursed          -  50.6
Through Feb. 1973                   Undisbursed                         -  59.2
Oustanding including
US $ 1.00 = YR  5.00                    Undisbursed                     - 109.8
YR   1.00 = US $0.20
Since Feb. 1973
US $ 1.00 = YR 4.50
YR   1.00 = US $0.22
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Central Bank holdings.
3/  Includes workers' remittances                                 April 4, 1978



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1978 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                         (less cancellations)
Number   Year           Borrower        Purpose                IDA       Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                   7.7           0.1
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture   21.2 /1             6.2
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                 11.0           4.3
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply               6.3           2.0
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate          2.3           1.2
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development    10.0                8.0
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                   9.0           0.9
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage         8.1           5.6
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  8.0           6.6
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing            5.2          4.4
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing        5.0          4.0
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage            10.0           9.9
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development           6.0          6.0
Total                                               109.8          59.2
Of which has been repaid                               -
Total now held by IDA                               109.8
Total undisbursed                                                  59.2
/1   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
*    The Executive Directors approved on April 27, 1978 a credit of $11.5
million for a Third Highway Project.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1978)
See para. 34.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of $200,000, equivalent, was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and co-
ordinating external aid. The Executive Directors approved on September 11,
1973 a second Bank grant of $200,000 equivalent to make possible the con-
tinuation of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund joined with
a grant of about $300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant
of $120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning
team including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait
Fund also joined with a grant of about $425,000.
D.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; $7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effective-
ness Date: January 15, 1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Borrower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba road
construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satisfac-
torily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the project
have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included in
the project has been delivered. The road construction is expected to be com-
pleted in mid-1978.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; $10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end
of 1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed
specification drawings of all the required contracts. Nine contracts for
preliminary works including camps, access and field roads and extension
offices were awarded to local contractors. Six of them have already been
completed and one nearing completion. Three major contracts, one each for
the construction of diversion weir, canals and the regulating gates, were put
to international tendering. Construction work on the diversion weirs has been
completed, the regulating gates are being installed and the canal will be com-
pleted by October 1978. The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was established
towards the end of 1974. The Credit Manager and the Field Manager for the ACF
have been appointed. ACF's operations in the project are highly satisfactory.
The total cost of the Project was revised to $40.8 million compared with $17.5
million at the time of initial appraisal. At the Government's request the
Association and the Kuwait Fund agreed to provide supplemental financing. The



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Kuwait Fund approved in December 1975 a supplementary loan of KD 2.8 million
and the Association approved on March 30, 1976 a $10.3 million supplementary
credit for the project. The reappraisal estimate of December 1978 for project
completion is expected to be met.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit
and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force, project implementation is now about 24 months
behind appraisal estimates. All site problems have been resolved. Construc-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily, with 80 percent of institutions anticipated
to be completed by October 1978. With the exception of one school, all equip-
ment and furniture contracts have been awarded and delivery has commenced.
The most critical aspects of the project are the difficulty to recruit expa-
triate and trained Yemeni staff for project institutions and the absence of
funds to finance technical assistance and fellowship costs formerly anticipated
from UNDP. The UNESCO Task Force is being phased out by December 1978, but
refinancing of some posts in critical areas would be necessary. The Associa-
tion and the Government are pursuing discussions with some bilateral agencies
in order to rectify this situation.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: September 28, 1979.
Civil works are virtually completed with only reservoir testing and
final site work remaining. The drilling and well construction program has
been completed and pipe laying is progressing.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October
1975 as scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal
estimate which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to
the unexpected increase in building costs that has taken place since project
appraisal. In the light of this cost increase and at the Government's
request, the Association agreed to retain the highest priority items in the
project. The Development Credit Agreement was amended accordingly. Con-
struction works started in February 1976. Two of the three buildings are
completed and the third is expected to be completed by end March 1978. Many
entrepreneurs have already signed lease agreements with the Industrial Estate
Development Authority and are using the facilities. Other parties have showed
interest in either renting factory space or developed plots.



- 31 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encoun-
tered management, staffing and organizational problems. Since the fall of
1976 progress has been encouraging. Project Management has improved and most
of the staff positions have been filled. Agricultural extension, veterinary
and credit activities are progressing very satisfactorily. Problems of cost
escalation will be met by reducing the number of loans that can be made to
farmers. Well drilling and the village water supply component has commenced.
A contract has been entered into with the Ministry of Public Works for the
rural road component. The ACF component is being implemented very satisfac-
torily.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; $9.0 million Credit of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the Highway
Authority has until May 1978 to run.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Completion of the well drilling program has allowed for the imple-
mentation of remedial works and associated construction in the well fields.
The draft tariff study report has been submitted by the consultants. Govern-
ment's prompt decision to proceed with a reduced scope of works has permitted
the consultants to finalize tender documents for civil works, mechanical/
electrical and pipe installation.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Commendable progress has been made in the physical implementation
of this project which is proceeding on schedule. Completion of construction
is expected by June 1979. The Project Unit staff is supervising all construc-
tion. Preparation of bid documents for furniture and equipment for the eight
project institutions has been completed and bidding is anticipated shortly.
Following the establishment of the National Basic Training Board, an initial
deposit of $50,000 has been made to the Basic Training Fund. Disbursements
from the Credit are proceeding satisfactorily. Severe constraints have been
placed on achieving the educational objectives of the project due to lack of
progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and Yemeni staff for the
project institutions. The Government is aware of this serious situation and
discussions with bilateral agencies are being held.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The expatriate project manager and his local counterpart, had been
appointed prior to negotiations. Contract negotiations with the engineering
firm Oscar Faber have been completed and the firm has commenced work on the
project.  The sites for the silo, the Government bakeries and the warehouses
have been acquired and properly demarcated and the preparation of the silo
site at Hodeidah has commenced.  Four Yemenis are undergoing undergraduate
training in the USA and two are presently undergoing non-graduate training
in the UK in financial management. Bids for the silo, warehouses and bakeries
are being evaluated. Project implementation remains on schedule. A silo
superintendent and an accountant (both local) have been appointed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project manager and practically all expatriate staff are in the
field together with the Co-Manager and some counterparts. Cost escalation
was resolved in a meeting of co-financiers in London in October 1977 by reduc-
tion and/or reorientation of some components without changing the project
concept. Government sites for the two dairy farms, two slaughterhouses and
the fattening farm have been secured and quotations received for housing,
equipment and well-drilling. The planning phase for construction of the
project components is about complete and it is expected that the project
will now move into the construction phase.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded for the well drilling program and for
the supply of materials for the water system house connections and sewer
appurtenances. The consultants have completed the project reports for
water supply and sewerage as well as for the laboratory installation. The
draft tender documents for water transmission and distribution mains are
under review. Preparation of the water supply and sewerage feasibility
study for the towns of Ibb and Dhamar was delayed due to the absence of
base mapping which is now being provided by the consultants. Completion
of the draft study, however, is still scheduled for September 1978. Award
of the contract for the construction industry study was delayed because
the Government requested additional proposals from consultant firms.
These are now under review.



- 33 -                              ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Port Engineer and the engineering consultants have been appointed.
Construction of Berth No. 4 is progressing and the engineering and soil
studies on berth No. 5 have started and are expected to be completed in June
1978.



- 34 -                         ANNEX III
Page I of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT II (WADI RIMA)
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:   July 1974 - September 1977
(time taken by U.K Land
Resources Division to
complete study).
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:  (i)  Land Resources
Division of U.K.
Ministry of Overseas
Development (Wadi
Rima Development).
(ii) UNDP (Institutional
Support to the
Ministry of Agri-
culture and the
Central Agricultural
Research Station at
Taiz.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and
date of first IDA mission:                       May 1977
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:          October 5, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:              April 6, 1978
(f)  Expected date of Credit Effectiveness:           September 29, 1978
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA: None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of Effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement are as
follows:
1.   Allocation of land by the Government for the construction of TDA's
headquarters in Hodeidah (paras. 46, 56 and 72); and



- 35 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   signing of loan agreement(s) between the Government and other
external co-financier(s) for an amount of US$12.55 million
equivalent (paras. 60 and 72).
B.   Measures agreed upon by the Government include:
1.   employment of expatriate staff whose qualifications and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA, to
fill TDA's senior project staff positions which could not be
filled by Yemeni staff of requisite experience (para. 59);
2.   communities benefiting from the village water supply, save
those provided with hand pumps only, would be charged for the
full costs of operation and maintenance of the system through
annual assessments averaging not less than YRls 17 per capita
per year (para. 61);
3.   the Government would advance the Agricultural Credit Fund from
its own resources or from that of the Agricultural Credit Bank,
not later than December 31, 1978, YRls 2 million to establish a
revolving fund to begin operations in Wadi Rima (para. 62); and
4.   report of the study on cost and cropsharing between the tenants
and the landowners would be submitted to IDA and agreed recom-
mendations would be implemented (para. 68).






______NEUIKAL_________________________                                                                                                                                                            IBRD    13401
'U  KEJTRAL UoNR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~  IRAN                                                                                                                                MARCH  97e~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRC  17
J  ,o  20   U          AKB                  KAA,                                                                                    YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
KILCOMETER
A 6 tSUD "ARABIA  «                                                                    TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT JI
RU RATES                                                                          Wadi Rima  Project Area
1I       f '*5E  Proposed PipelineS                          I..- -,- -..  Approximate Boundaries to Shaykhdoms
SUDAN  - ~~~~~~'-  'D~~~~                               Well Sites for Water Supply Installatiorns              -' 'Project Boundaries
> 2 SUDAI,Tr/OJT  n                                         21    ReferenceNumbers of Water Installations                           Pump Irrigotion and Other Uses
Demonstration Farms                                    *         Regular Spate Irrigation
~~~~~~~                     I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roaids                                                                                                  irregular Spate Irrigation
CMIA                                                   Proposed Road Alignments                               '         (~0Y~    ontaurs (25 Meters, 100 Meters on Hills)
Other Tracks for Upgrading to Access Roads             -         W  dis
S; r^  .t  4Xr    \Dh.-Br         Ih      , h        .                                                                                                              Mpjor Villages
ARRA                  AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZRNC
W.551A AHA
L 2w



