RESTR I CTED
Report No. P-706
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
May 26, 1969



INTERNATIONAI BANK FOR RECONISTRUCTION AND DEVELOPP aNT
REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPC6ED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR TIM THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$20 million to the
Republic of Venezuela.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In December 1961, the Bank made a loan of $45 million to Vene-
zuela for the construction of two sections of expressway linking Caracas
with the major industrial region in the west, and terminating near the
port of Puerto Cabello. These were completed satisfactorily and opened
to traffic in 1965. A second loan for highway construction was made in
August 1964, in the amount of $30 million. This provided for the coI1-
struction and improvement of two trunk highways in southwest Venezuela,
and of two urban expressways in and near metropolitan Caracas. The high-
ways included in both these loans featured among the priority roads recom-
mended for construction and improvement by a Bank survey mission to Vene-
zuela; the expressways are needed to meet the heavy requirements of traf-
fic flowing into Caracas as a result of the country's economic development,
improvements in the highway network, and the growTth in the vehicle fleet.
3.        There has been delay, and an estimated cost over-run of 13 per-
cent, in the completion of the second highway project. These have been
caused mainly by relocations due to actual and potential landslides on
one of the highway sections, particularly heavy rainfall in 1966 and 1967,
and the legal and financial difficulties encountered in acquiring the
right-of-way for the expressways. However, the project is now 95
percent complete; the remaining works are expected to be completed by mid-
1970.
4.        The Bank loan now proposed will help carry fonward the program
of highway and expressway development to alleviate the severe transpart
problems in Caracas. Project appraisal was completed in March 1969, and
negotiations for the proposed loan took place at the Bank in May 1969.
The Venezuelan Government was represented by Mr. Carlos Emanuelli, Direc-
tor of the Department of Public Credit, Ministry of Finance; Hr. Juan Jose
Bolinaga, Director, Control and Programming Office, Ministry of Public
WJorks, and other members of that Ministry; and Mr. Eduardo Nunez, of
CORDIPLAN.



5.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Venezuela,
as of April 30, 1969:
Loan                                                     Amount (US$ Million)
No.   Year         Borrower           Purpose              Bank Undisbursed
306   1961   Republic of Venezuela  Expressways              45.0
353   1963   EDELCA                 Electric Power           85.0     5.1
390   1964   Republic of Venezuela Highways                  30.0     8.4
391   1964   CADAFE                 Power Transmission       14.0
435   1965   CANrTV                 Telecornnunications      37.0     8.4
444   1966   INOS                   Water Supply             21.3    4U5
482   1967   EDELCA                 Electric Power           15.0     3.5
Total (net of cancellations)                  247.3
of which has been repaid to Bank and others    11.5
Total now outstanding                         235.8
Amount sold                           14.1
of which has been repaid              7.3       6.8
Total now held by Bank                        229.0
Total undisbursed                               29.9    29.9
6.        In addition to the difficulties encountered in the execution of
the Second Highway Project already mentioned, delays have been experienced
in the completion of two other projects. On the Guri Hydroelectric Project
(Loan 353-VE) there was need for additional excavation: work fell behind
schedule and additional construction equipment had to be moved on-site. A
revised schedule of completion was drawfn up. The first of the three units
and the dam were finally brought into operation in November 1968, and a
second unit in April 1969.  The last unit is expected to be operational in
July 1969. The Closing Date for this loan has been extended from M4arch 31,
1968, to September 30, 1969.
7.        Progress on the construction of the INOS liater Supply Project
(Loan 44-VF, of $21.3 million) has been satisfactory.   However, there has
been a problem with the covenant on water rates. Pending a decision by
the Government on rate increases satisfactory to the Bank, withdrawal ap-
plications are presently not being submitted and an amount of $h.5 million
remains undisbursed in the Loan Account. A study made recently by the
administration advisory office of the Metropolitan Zone has recommended
rate increases on the scale needed to meet the requirements of the loan
covenant. In the meantime, a new Government has been installed in Vene-
zuela. To give this Government, and the new leadership in INOS, time to
decide upon a suitable rate increase, the Closing Date for the loan has
been postponed from March 31, 1969, to September 30, 1969.



8.        The Bardn has received a new loan request from Venezuela for the
Guri Powerhouse Extension Project. Negotiations have been completedp and
I expect to present this loan to the Executive Directors withiri the manth.
9.        As of March 31, 1969, IFC held net investments (loan and equity)
in Venezuela totalling US$9.2 million.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
10.       Borrower:                 Republic of Venezuela.
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $20 million.
Purpose:                  To assist in financing the foreign ex-
change cost of constructing an eqpress-
way in Caracas, and of consulting serv-
ices for assistance in supervising con-
struction, and for a study of road-usor
charges in Caracas.
Amortization:             In 20 years, including a 4-1/2-year
grace period, through semi-annual in-
stallments from December 15, 1973, to
June 15, 1989.
Interest Rate:            6-1/2 percent.
Commitment Charge:        3/4 of one percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
11.       A detailed Description of the Project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Third Highway Project" (PTR,12_).
12.       The proposed project would enable completion of an urban express-
way (21.5 km.) along the northern part of the city of Caracas, with access
roads and interchanges. At its eastern end this expressway will connect
with another new expressway being constructed from Petare to Guatire; in
the west it will be eventually extended to join the Caracas-La Guaira high-
way. The project would also provide for consulting services for supervising
construction of the expressway; and for services of experts to assist in a
study of road-user charges in metropolitan Caracas. The employment of these
experts and consultants will be upon terms and conditions to be agreed upon
with the Bank.
13.       The project would be executed by the Ministry of Public Works
(MOP), through the Directorate of Transport. The latter carried out the
design of the expressway with the assistance of local consultants, and will



- 4 -
be assisted by foreign consultants for supervision of construction. The
Directorate is manned by competent and experienced staff; and is directly
responsible for highway administration, planning, design, construction
and maintenance. In the last few years the technical staff of the Direc-
torate has been increased, and its dependence on outside consultants for
designing and supervisory work correspondingly reduced.
14.       Consulting services to supervise construction of the Second
Highway Project were provided by the U.S. firm of Miller-Warden-Western
(IiN), who also prepared the feasibility report for the present project,
and reviewed its detailed engineering. The same firm, under a contract
to be agreed by the Bank, will continue to advise the Government on vari-
ous aspects of project supervision in respect of the Third Highway Pro-
ject. Suitable experts will be engaged by the Government to assist in a
study of the existing level and structure of road-user charges in metro-
politan Caracas, in order to ensure an efficient use of existing and plan-
ned transport facilities in the area. Contracts for all remaining major
civil works will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding, in accordance with the Bank's procurement policies for goods and
services.
15.       The total estimated cost of the project would be US$119.8 mill-
ion equivalent. The project was initially appraised in 1966, but there
were delays in the Government's obtaining legislative approval for borrow-
ing from the Bank. Because of the urgancy of the work, the Government
proceeded with part of the construction.  It is proposed that the Bank
should participate only in expenditures after loan signing. The total
cost of construction works and engineering services remaining at that
time (end May) is estimated at US$43.2 million, with a foreign exchange
requirement, including the cost of the study of road-user charges, of
US$20 million. Of this amount, a total of US$2.2 million equivalent
would represent foreign cost expenditures after loan signing under con-
tracts already awarded, but found acceptable under the Bank's procedures
for international competitive bidding. Based on the experience with the
earlier two highwiay loans, no difficulty is anticipated in the Govern-
ment's meeting its share of the overall cost from budget appropriations.
Timely action to acquire the necessary right-of-way for the project will
be taken by the Borrower, and the initiation of such action will be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
16.       The project is technically sound and economically justified. A
conservative estimate of savings in vehicle operating costs alone would
yield a rate of economic return of 13 percent on the proposed investment.
17.       The economic life of the expressway could justify a term of 30
years; howJever, in view of Venezuela's generally favorable economic posi-
tion, and relatively small external debt, a term of 20 years is proposed,
including a 4-1/2-year grace period.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Venezuela and
the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution ap-
proving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
19.       The draft Loan Agreement contains provisions generally used in
highway construction projects.
PART V - THE ECONCIY
20.       A memorandum of May 26, 1969, entitled "Recent Economic Develop-
ments in Venezuela" is attached. A new administration took office in MIarch
1969: it is now in the process of formulating its policies and public sec-
tor investment programs; it is proposed to send an economic mission for an
assessment of these policies and programs later in the year.
21.       The performance of the Venezuelan economy in the recent past has
been satisfactory. The short-run recessioinary conditions of 1966 - caused
by the decline in petroleum prices and the adverse business climate gen-
erated by the proposed tax reforms - were reversed in the last two years.
The GDP rose by five percent in 1967 and in 1968. Gross domestic savings
as well as investment picked up; food production grew at 7.5 percent per
annum in 1963-68; prices continued to be held in check, increases in whole-
sale prices in 1967 and 1968 averaging no more than 1.5 percent per year.
However, investment expenditure has been increasing more rapidly than GDP
and Government capital expenditures in infrastructure and in the social
sector have been particularly heavy during 1965-68. Monetary and fiscal
measures to meet the situation, including a curb on the budget expenditure
for 1969, are presently being taken by the new Government.
22.       Although its relative importance has declined marginally in re-
cent years, the role of the petroleum industry in Venezuela's economy re-
mains crucial. This fact injects an element of uncertainty in the longer-
term prospects of the economy. There was a decline in petroleum production
and export in 1966, followed by increases in 1967 and 1968: the industry,
however, faces certain structural disadvantages in competition with alter-
native sources of supply for the North American and European markets where,
as a consequence, it has been losing ground. Scme efforts are being made
towards exploring new sources of supply, in the reduction of the sulphur
content of fuel oil, and in drawing up fresh service contracts with the oil
companies for the development of petroleum resources. A key issue that re-
mains to be resolved is how the new Government will ensure that sufficient
investments are made in exploration and development of new reserves; present
known oil reserves will be largely exhausted by 1983-84 and new arrangements
with the industry have been under consideration for several years.



-6
23.       Venezuela's foreign exchange reserves have risen frnm US$769
million in December 1966, to US$910 miallioi in February 1969. This was
partly due to a larger government participation in the foreign exchange
earnings of oil companies, and to a sharp decline in capital flight.   How-
ever, the substantial surpluses on current account which were a feature
of the period 1962-64, have been eroded subsequently, and 1968 showed a
deficit of $187 million. Imports of capital and intermediate goods have
been rising, and are expected to rise further to sustain economic growth:
at the same time the prospects of increased petroleum exports - still by
far the major export constituent - are limited. Balance of payments defi-
cits on current account are therefore likely to emerge in the future.
24.       More than half of Venezuela's external public debt is owred to
international organizations. Its net debt service ratio stands at less
than 3 percent.  Therefore, in sum, wtile it is difficult at this stage
to forecast Venezuela's overall requirements of external financing in the
absence of a public sector investment program for the coming years, these
are expected to be not inconsiderable; at the same time there is evidence
of steady economic growth and a move towards diversification; and there
remains a significant margin for additional borrowing on conventional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREFVIENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOijfENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washin,gton, D.C.
May 20, 1969



