Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER   3584-1 CA 
 
Agreement Providing for the Amendment 
and Restatement of the 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Health and Education Emergency Support Project) 
 
between 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 25, 2007
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3584-1 CA 
 
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF THE  
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 2007,
 
between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) (the Agreement Providing for the Amendment and Restatement of the 
Development Credit Agreement). 
WHEREAS the Recipient and the Association have agreed to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement between the Recipient and the Association dated December 14, 2001 
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement) in the manner hereinafter set forth; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
 
Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated as set 
forth in the Annex hereto. 
Section 1.02. This Agreement Providing for the Amended and Restated Development 
Credit Agreement shall become effective
 (“Restructuring Effective Date”), in accordance with 
Section 8.01 of the General Conditions, upon receipt by the Association of evidence satisfactory 
to the Association that:  
(a) 
the Recipient has established the Implementation Committee in a form and with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the Recipient has established the FMPU within the Implementation Committee in 
a
form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, 
including a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist; 
 
(c) 
the Recipient has adopted: (i) the amended Project Implementation Manual; (ii) 
the amended Financial and Accounting Manual; (iii) the amended Monitoring 
and Evaluation Manual; and (iv) an amended procurement plan; all in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(d) 
the Recipient has appointed financial management staff with satisfactory 
qualifications in CNLS TS, Ministry of Health and Education, to manage Credit 
funds. 
 
Page  3
2
Section 1.03. Pursuant to Section 8.02 of the General Conditions, as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to Section 1.02 above, shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing that the 
Amended and Restated Development Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and is legally binding on the Recipient in 
accordance with its terms. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brussels, 
Belgium as of the day and year first above written. 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Maliko Sylvain 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Marie Françoise Marie-Nelly 
Authorized Representative 
Page  4
3
ANNEX 
 
To Agreement providing for the Amendment and Restatement of the  
Development Credit Agreement  
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3584-1 CA 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
(Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Health and Education Emergency Support Project) 
 
between 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 25, 2007 
Page  5
4
CREDIT NUMBER 3584-1 - CA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 25, 2007, entered into between CENTRAL AFRICAN 
REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to thirteen million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,300,000) 
(variously, “Credit” 
and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be 
equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are December 15 and June 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is EURO. 
 
Page  6
5
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the Program.  
To this end, the Recipient shall carry out Component 1 of the Project through CNLS TS, 
Component 2 of the project through the Ministry of Health, Component 3 of the project 
through the Ministry of Education and Component 4 of the project through the Ministry 
of Planning in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.   
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that 
the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following namely that a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will 
be carried out.  
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Recipient has established the Implementation Committee in a form and with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
the Recipient has established the FMPU within the Implementation Committee in a form 
and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, including a 
financial management specialist and a procurement specialist; 
(c) 
the Recipient has adopted: (i) the amended Project Implementation Manual; (ii) the 
amended Financial and Accounting Manual; (iii) the amended Monitoring and Evaluation 
Manual; and (iv) an amended procurement plan; all in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(d) 
the Recipient has appointed financial management staff with satisfactory 
qualifications in CNLS TS, Ministry of health and Education, to manage Credit 
funds; and 
(e) 
that the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Development 
Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action.  
Page  7
6
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
economy, planning and international cooperation. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministère de l’Economie, du Plan et  
de la Coopération Internationale 
P.O. Box 696 
Bangui 
République Centrafricaine 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(236) 61 73 87 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Brussels, Belgium, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Maliko Sylvain 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Marie Françoise Marie-Nelly  
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to contribute to (a) urgent needs 
in the fight against HIV, such as access to prevention, treatment, and impact mitigation services 
(b) urgent social needs such as prevention of malaria, increased access to water supply and 
improved primary education.
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Recipient 
and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Component 1:
Support to the National Program against HIV-AIDS
A. 
Grants to implement Sub-projects of eligible CSOs, youth organizations, a federation of 
associations of PLWHA and PLWHA associations, for activities against HIV-AIDS 
dealing with prevention, access to care, treatment and support. 
B. 
Enhancing access to prevention, care and treatment regarding HIV/AIDS, by providing 
support for the programs of the Ministry of Health against HIV-AIDS.  
C. 
Supporting the HIV/AIDS action plans of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of 
Defense, Ministry of Social Affairs and Ministry of Public Services dealing with 
prevention, access to care, treatment and support.
 
D. 
Support coordination, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation, through the financing 
of operational costs, studies, equipment, technical assistance for CNLS Technical 
Secretariat and the decentralized coordinating committees at the prefecture level and 
studies of the National Program against HIV/AIDS. 
Component 2:
Support to emergency health need
s
A. 
Improve Malaria prevention and access to emergency health services by procuring and 
distributing: (i) insecticide-treated mosquito nets for pregnant women and children under 
age five and (ii) equipment for emergency health services.  
B. 
Facilitate implementation of Sub-projects to implement action plans prepared by eligible 
Communities and CSOs, addressing emergency health needs such as small rural water 
supply systems and drainage of marshlands to reduce reproduction and spreading of 
mosquitoes through (i) the provision of Grants to implement Sub-projects, and (ii) 
contracting an agency to channel funds for the financing of Action Plans of CSOs and 
Communities. 
Page  9
8
C. 
Support to the Ministry of Health to supervise, monitor, and evaluate the activities of 
Component 2 of the Project.  
Component 3:
Support to emergency needs in the Education Sector
A. I
mprove the quality of teaching at the primary level by focusing on teachers’ training and by 
improving the ratio students/teachers by providing fellowship allowances to apprentice teachers 
and training of these apprentice teachers. 
B. 
Increase the number of textbooks and other educational material in primary schools through 
provision of these textbooks and educational materials. 
C. 
Support to the Ministry of Education to supervise, monitor, and evaluate the activities of 
Component 3 of the Project, through the financing of operational costs, studies, 
equipment, and technical assistance. 
Component 4
:
Support to a financial management and procurement Unit
Support to the Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FMPU) through the 
financing of operational costs, studies, equipment, and technical assistance. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Implementation Committee and FMPU
(a) 
The Recipient shall create and maintain throughout Project implementation, the Implementation 
Committee, the FMPU, CNLS, including, CNLS TS and CNLS PMU, up to sixteen (16) CPLS, 
and a financial management unit within MoHP and MOE, in a form and with functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause the Implementation Committee, CNLS TS, MoHP, MOE at the national 
level and CPLS at the regional level to carry out the daily facilitation, implementation and 
coordination of the Project in their respective sectors. 
(c) 
Not later than the Restructuring Effective Date, and thereafter by November 30 of each year, the 
Recipient shall, through the Implementation Committee, furnish to the Association for its review 
and approval, proposed detailed annual work plans, including training programs and proposed 
budgets in respect of Project activities for the forthcoming year. 
2. Core 
Ministries
Not later than the Restructuring Effective Date, and thereafter by November 30 of each year, the 
Recipient shall cause its beneficiary Ministries, through the Implementation Committee, to 
furnish to the Association for its review and approval, their annual Action Plan for the 
forthcoming year. 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the 
Project Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the 
Project, as of the Channeling Modification Date, the Recipient shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Association (“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  11
10
shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its 
provisions
.
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Sub-projects.
 
(a) 
No Subproject to implement Action Plans shall be eligible for financing under a grant out of the 
proceeds of the Credit unless FMPU or after the Channeling Modification Date, the Project 
Implementing Entity, has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with 
the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, 
which shall include the following: 
(i) 
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in components 1(A) 
and 2(B) of the Project and shall not be for any of the activities mentioned in a negative 
list in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(ii) 
the Subproject shall be initiated and implemented by an eligible CSO or a Community or 
under its supervision; 
(iii) 
the Subproject shall be in accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual; and 
(iv) 
the Subproject under subcomponent 1(A) shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the applicable laws and regulations of the Recipient relating to its HIV/AIDS 
Program. 
(v) 
the Subproject under sub-component 2(B) shall be in compliance with the Revised ESMP 
to be approved by the Association and to standards set forth in the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Recipient relating to Environmental protection. 
(b) 
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Grant Agreements, to be concluded between the 
Recipient through CNLS or the concerned CPLS or, after the Channeling Modification Date, the 
Project Implementing Entity, under subcomponent 1(A) and between MoH or, after the 
Channeling Modification Date, the Project Implementing Entity, under subcomponent 2(B) under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the following: 
(i) 
a copy of the approved Subproject, with its budget and its performance indicators; 
Page  12
11
(ii) 
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
(iii) 
the obligation to: (a) carry out the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public health standards and the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of loan proceeds other than the 
Recipient; (b) implement a CSO or community ESMP as approved according to the 
Revised ESMP under sub-component 2(B); (c) maintain adequate records to reflect in 
accordance with simple and sound accounting practices defined in the Project 
Implementation Manual, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Subproject; and (d) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the standards 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(iv) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in this 
Agreement; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Subproject;  
(v) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works sites, plants and construction included in 
the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(vi) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and financial conditions 
of the Subproject, and 
at the Association’s or the Recipient’s request, the right to have 
such financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the Association; 
and 
(vii) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the Community or the CSO 
as applicable, to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon failure by the 
Community or the CSO, as applicable to perform any of its obligations under its Grant 
Agreement. 
E. Safeguards 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual, the Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual, the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Manual, the Clinical Waste Management Plan, and the Revised ESMP, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of these Manuals 
or of this Plan without the Association’s prior written approval. These Manuals and this Plan 
will not be amended or waived if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement 
of the objectives thereof. 
Page  13
12
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) 
of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one year, and 
shall be furnished to the Association not later than four months after the end of 
the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph A.1 (a) consist of 
the following: 
i. 
Number of users of HIV/AIDS VCT services in targeted areas.  
ii. 
Additional number of HIV+ patients with access to ARV treatment 
iii. 
Additional number of households using ITNs.  
iv. 
Teacher/student ratio in targeted districts 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the execution of 
the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than March 31, 2011. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association not later than two months after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was 
made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  14
13
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding  
(b)International or National Shopping   
(c) Direct contracting 
Page  15
14
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection  (LCS) 
(b)  Selection based  on the Consultant ‘Qualification  (CQS) 
(c)  Individual Consultant (IC) 
(d)  Single Source Selection (SSS) 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Recipient, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods or works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, (b) the first 3 contracts for 
works and goods procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and all Direct 
Contracting; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for individual consultant 
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or more; and (e) all contracts procured 
on the basis of Single Source selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
Page  16
15
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category, as of the Restructuring Effective 
Date: 
 Category 
Amount 
of 
the 
Credit Allocated 
(SDR Equivalent) 
%
of Expenditures  
to be Financed  
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) 
Works  
100,000 
100%  
(2) Goods: 
 
100% 
 
(a) Vehicles, motorcycles  
 
and equipment 
340,000 100% 
 
(b) drugs, tests, mosquito  
 
nets, reagents, schools and
health centers supplies 
5,500,000 100% 
 
(3) 
Consultant services and 
Audits 
460,000 100% 
 
(4) Training 
1,050,000 
 
(5) 
Grants for community 
subprojects 
2,550,000 100% 
 
(6) 
Operating costs 
900,000 
100%  
(7) 
Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance 
1,350,000 100% 
 
(8) Unallocated 
1,050,000 
100% 
 
TOTAL 
13,300,000 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "Operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, including office furniture and supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, rental expenses, office maintenance 
costs, utilities, travel cost for Project staff and salaries of support contractual staff for the 
Project, excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(b) 
the term "training" means expenses directly related with organization of workshops 
contributed to the project objectives and approved in the annual action plans and budget, 
including the per diems for the participants to training sessions, as well as food and 
drinks served during the sessions. 
 
Page  17
16
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made (i) 
under sub-components 1(A) and 2(B), prior to the express satisfaction of the Association 
that the FMPU Reinforcement Date has been met, and (ii) under sub-components 2(B) 
with respect to any drainage of marshlands or construction of water supply Sub-projects, 
prior to the express satisfaction of the Association that the Revised ESMP has been 
adopted in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
No later than 3 months after the Restructuring Effective Date, the Recipient shall have 
appointed within the FMPU two technical assistants specialized in the channeling of 
funds to CSO and communities, with satisfactory qualifications  
2. 
No later than 3 months after the Restructuring Effective Date, the Recipient through the 
Ministry of Planning shall have adopted the Revised ESMP, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association.
 
Page  18
17
SCHEDULE 3 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit repayable
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each June 15 and December 15 : 
 
commencing December 15, 2011 to and including
June 15, 2021 
1% 
commencing December 15, 2021 to and including
June 15, 2041 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, 
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  19
18
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Action Plan” means any document describing a set of activities to fight against the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic carried out by a Community, a CSO or a PSO. 
2. 
“AIDS” means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
“CFA Franc” or “CFAF” means Franc de la Coopération Financière en Afrique Centrale, 
the currency of the Recipient. 
6. 
“Channeling Modification Date” means the date that the entity identified for channeling 
funds to CSOs and communities has (i) signed a Subsidiary Agreement with the 
Recipient, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, (ii) has otherwise 
satisfied the requirements provided in the General Conditions, and 
(iii) has otherwise been found to be fully satisfactory to the Association. 
7. 
“Clinical Waste Management Plan” means the plan for the management of hazardous 
health/medical waste under the Project, referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as 
the same has been amended within three months of the Restructuring Effective Date and 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Clinical 
Waste Management Plan. 
8. 
“Community” means a rural or urban community group established and operating under 
the laws of the Recipient, a village in rural areas or any social group in urban areas with 
strong common social, professional or religious bonds (usually having less than 1,000 
members), which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual and the requirements of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, as a result, has 
received or is entitled to receive a Sub-Grant (as hereinafter defined) through a Grant 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a Subproject. 
9. “CNLS” 
means 
Comité National de Lutte contre le SIDA
,
the Recipient’s national 
committee to fight against HIV/AIDS, established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Decree No. 01-032 dated January 26, 2001. 
Page  20
19
10. 
“CNLS Bureau” means the Executive Bureau of the CNLS, the technical and executive 
body of the CNLS established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree 
No. 01-032 dated January 26, 2001. 
11. 
“CNLS TS” means the Technical Secretariat of the CNLS, the technical and 
administrative body of the CNLS established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s 
Decree No. 01-032 dated January 26, 2001. 
12. 
“CPLS” means any of the Recipient’s prefectoral committees to fight against HIV/AIDS 
(
Comité Préfectoral de Lutte contre le SIDA
);
 established in each of the Recipient’s 
Préfectures and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 01-032 dated 
January 26, 2001. 
13. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
14. 
“CSO” means a civil society organization established and operating under the laws of the 
Recipient, including religious organizations, professional and non-professional 
associations, private firms and NGOs involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS. 
15. 
“Core Ministries” means MOHP, MOE, MOD, MOI, MOWSS and MORD 
(as hereinafter defined), the Recipient’s ministries that have prepared Action Plans in 
accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
16. 
“Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual” means the manual to be adopted 
pursuant to Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement outlining financial and accounting 
procedures and guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the Project. 
17. 
“FMPU” means a Financial Management and Procurement Unit established before the 
Restructuring Effective Date by the Recipient, under the Implementation Committee.  
18. 
“FMPU Reinforcement Date” means the date the Recipient shall have appointed within 
the FMPU two technical assistants specialized in the channeling of funds to CSOs and 
communities, with qualifications satisfactory to the Association. 
19. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
20. 
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement supporting a Subproject and referred to in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  21
20
21. 
“HIV” means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus. 
22. 
“Implementation Committee” means a Committee to be established pursuant to an 
Arrêté
 
by the Restructuring Effective Date, to be chaired by a senior official from Ministry of 
Planning and composed of senior officials of ST/CNLS, Ministry of Health, Ministry of 
Education, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Hydraulics.  
23. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Manual” means the manual to be adopted pursuant to 
Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement outlining monitoring and evaluation procedures and 
guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the Project. 
24. 
“MOE” means the Recipient’s Ministry responsible for education. 
25. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry responsible for economy and finance. 
26. 
“MOHP” means the Recipient’s Ministry responsible for health and population. 
27. 
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations established and operating under the laws 
of the Recipient. 
28. 
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS. 
29. 
“PSO” means a public sector organization, including Ministries and public agencies 
existing and operating under the laws of the Recipient. 
30. 
“Préfecture” means any of the sixteen (16) administrative areas of the Recipient’s 
territory and "Préfectures" means all of these areas. 
31. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006. 
32. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project to be adopted 
pursuant to Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
32. 
“Program” means collectively the Recipient’s analysis report on HIV/AIDS dated 
February, 2001, the interim Health Plan 2000-2002, the national Action Plan for the 
mobilization of Leaders dated April 2001, the national Strategy 2006-2010 against 
HIV-AIDS dated July 2006, all four containing details of the design and content of the 
Recipient’s strategy against the HIV/AIDS epidemic.  
Page  22
21
33. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual to be adopted pursuant to 
Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement, outlining policies, procedures and guidelines to be 
followed in the implementation of the Project, as amended as of the Restructuring 
Effective Date. 
34. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by the 
Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on April 2, 2001 and on behalf of the Recipient on April 23, 2001. 
35. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the new agency for channeling funds to CSO and 
communities to be established during Project implementation. 
36. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means the legislation establishing and 
governing the Project Implementing Entity, or other legislation relating to the Project 
Implementing Entity. 
37. 
“Restructuring Effective Date” means the date the conditions set forth in Article V of this 
Agreement are satisfied. 
38. 
“Revised ESMP” means a revised consolidated environment and social management plan 
which would include: a revised medical waste management plan; a list of insecticides for 
treatment of bed nets, compliant with WHO guidelines on insecticides allowed for such 
use; and an operational manual.  
39. 
“STDs” means sexually transmitted diseases. 
40. 
“Sub-project” means a specific Action Plan carried out by a Community and financed, or 
proposed to be financed, through a Sub-Grant under the Project under Components 1(A) 
or 2(B) of the Project. 
41. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the 
Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
42. “UCM” 
means 
Unité de Cession du Médicament
,
the Recipient’s national central 
Medicine Procurement Agency, created by the Recipient and operating pursuant to 
Decree No. 94-185, dated May 28, 1994.
 
