Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3584 CA
Development Credit Agreement
(Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 14, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3584 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 2001, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on September 12, 
2000, the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region estimated in the amount 
of SDR 378,400,000 over a period of three years;
(C)
this Project is part of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa 
Region; 
(D)
the Association has received from the Borrower the following policy 
documents, namely, an analysis report on HIV/AIDS dated February, 2001, the interim 
Health Plan 2000-2002, and the national Action Plan for the mobilization of  Leaders 
dated April 2001, all three containing details of the design and content of the 
Borrower’s national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic that was jointly prepared by 
Page  2
development partner agencies under the leadership of the National Committee against 
HIV/AIDS ("CNLS") (said documents being hereinafter referred to as the "Program") and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AIDS" means the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(b)
"Action Plan" means any document describing a set of activities to fight 
against the HIV/AIDS epidemic carried out by a Community, a CSO or a PSO;
(c)
"CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means Franc de la Coopération Financière en Afrique 
Centrale, the currency of the Borrower;
(d)
"Clinical Waste Management Plan" means the plan for the management of 
hazardous health/medical waste under the Project, referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Clinical Waste Management Plan;
(e)
"Community" means a rural or urban community group established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower, a village in rural areas or any social group 
in urban areas with strong common social, professional or religious bonds (usually 
having less than 1,000 members), which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) through a Grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a 
Subproject;
(f)
"CSO" means a civil society organization established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower, including religious organizations, professional and 
Page  3
non-professional associations, private firms and NGOs involved in the fight against 
HIV/AIDS;
(g)
"Core Ministries" means MOHP, MOE, MOD, MOI, MOWSS and MORD (as 
hereinafter defined), the Borrower’s ministries that have prepared Action Plans in 
accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
"CNLS" means Comité National de Lutte contre le SIDA, the Borrower’s 
national committee to fight against HIV/AIDS, established and operating pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Decree No. 01-032 dated January 26, 2001;
(i)
"CNLS Bureau" means the Executive Bureau of the CNLS, the technical and 
executive body of the CNLS established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 
No. 01-032 dated January 26, 2001;
(j)
"CNLS FMU" means the Financial Management Unit of the CNLS referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(k)
"CNLS TS" means the Technical Secretariat of the CNLS, the technical and 
administrative body of the CNLS established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 01-032 dated January 26, 2001;
(l)
"CPLS" means any of the Borrower’s prefectoral committees to fight 
against HIV/AIDS (Comité Préfectoral de Lutte contre le SIDA), established in each of 
the Borrower’s Préfectures and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 01-032 
dated January 26, 2001;
(m)
"Eligible Categories" means: (i) Category (5) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special Account A; and (ii) 
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement in respect of Special Account B;
(n)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual" means the manual to be 
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement outlining financial and 
accounting procedures and guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the 
Project;
(p)
"Financing Agreement" means an agreement supporting an Action Plan and 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(q)
"Grant Agreement" means an agreement supporting a Subproject and referred 
to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)
"HIV" means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
(s)
"Initial Deposit" means the amount to be deposited in the Project Account 
pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Mid-Term Review" means the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(u)
"Monitoring and Evaluation Manual" means the manual to be adopted 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement outlining monitoring and evaluation 
procedures and guidelines to be followed in the implementation of the Project;
(v)
"MOB" means Municipality of Bangui;
(w)
"MOD" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for defense;
(x)
"MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for education;
(y)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for economy and finance;
(z)
"MOHP" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for health and 
population;
(aa)
"MOI" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for interior affairs;
(bb)
"MORD" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for rural development;
Page  4
(cc)
"MOWSS" means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for women and social 
services;
(dd)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(ee)
"Partner" means a CSO which has met the eligibility criteria set out in 
the Project Implementation Manual and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive, a financial support through 
a Financial Agreement for the carrying out of an Action Plan;
(ff)
"PLWH" means people living with HIV/AIDS;
(gg)
"PSO" means a public sector organization, including Ministries and public 
agencies existing and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(hh)
"Préfecture" means any of the sixteen (16) administrative areas of the 
Borrower’s territory and "Préfectures" means all of these areas;
(ii)
"Program" means collectively the Borrower’s analysis report on HIV/AIDS 
dated February, 2001,  the interim Health Plan 2000-2002, and the national Action Plan 
for the mobilization of Leaders dated April 2001, all three containing details of the 
design and content of the Borrower’s strategy against the HIV/AIDS epidemic;
(jj)
"Project Account" means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 3.02 
of this Agreement; 
(kk)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual to be adopted pursuant 
to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, outlining policies, procedures and guidelines 
to be followed in the implementation of the Project;
(ll)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(mm)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on April 2, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on April 23, 
2001;
(nn)
"Special Account A" means the Special Account opened for Grants for 
Community Subprojects pursuant to Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(oo)
"Special Account B" means the Special Account opened for withdrawals in 
respect of expenditures made under the Project other than Subproject expenditures 
pursuant to Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(pp)
"Special Accounts" means Special Account A and Special Account B;
(qq)
"STDs" means sexually transmitted diseases; 
(rr)
"Subproject" means a specific Action Plan carried out by a Community and 
financed, or proposed to be financed, through a grant under the Project; and
(ss)
"UCM" means Unité de Cession du Médicament, the Borrower’s national 
central Medicine Procurement Agency, created by the Borrower and operating pursuant to 
Decree No. 94-185, dated May 28, 1994.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
Page  5
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made under a Grant to meet the reasonable costs of 
goods, works and services required for a Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on December 15 and June 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each December 15 and June 15 commencing December 15, 2011 and ending June 15, 2041. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2021, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
Page  6
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through CNLS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and public health practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain in CFAF in the name of CNLS an account (the Project 
Account) in a bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to CFAF one 
hundred forty million (CFAF 140,000,000) (the Initial Deposit);
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, by January 31 in each year 
during Project implementation, an amount or amounts equal to a total of CFAF two 
hundred ten million (CFAF 210,000,000) or such greater amount or amounts as may be 
required for the purposes of the Project; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to 
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures 
made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the 
Project and not financed or to be financed by the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the future achievement of the objectives of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  7
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound Action Plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months after the Effective or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
Page  8
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the Action Plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the CNLS Bureau, the CNLS TS and the CNLS FMU have been established, each 
in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit deposited 
therein;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted: (i) the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) the 
Financial and Accounting Manual; (iii) the Monitoring and Evaluation Manual; (iv) a 
procurement plan for the first Project Year; and (v) a Clinical Waste Management Plan; 
all in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, employed a firm acceptable to the Association to be 
responsible for the carrying out of Project audits; and
(e)
the Borrower’s Core Ministries have presented Action Plans to fight 
against HIV/AIDS, in form and substance acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for economy, 
planning and international cooperation is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère de l’Economie, du Plan et 
  de la Coopération Internationale
P.O. Box 696
Bangui
République Centrafricaine
Page  9
           Facsimile:
(236) 61 73 87
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Emmanuel Touaboy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
     160,000
90%
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) vehicles, motorcycles  2,800,000
and equipment
(b) drugs, tests and 
   1,560,000
Page  10
reagents
(3)
Consultants’ services
   1,600,000
100% of foreign expenditures
and audits
and 90% of local 
expenditures
(4)
Training
     970,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(5)
Grants for Community
   3,900,000
100% of amounts
Subprojects
disbursed
(6)
Operating costs
     660,000
90%
(7)
Refunding of Project
     350,000
Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   1,300,000
TOTAL
  13,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
(c)
the term "Operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office furniture and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs (excluding social 
insurance and contribution), rental expenses, office maintenance costs, utilities, 
travel cost for Project staff and salaries of support contractual staff for the 
Project, excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service; and
(d)
the term "training" means per diems for the participants to training 
sessions, as well as food and drinks served during the sessions.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
a grant under Category (5) to a Community under a Grant Agreement unless 
the Grant Agreement has been made in accordance with eligibility criteria and on terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Project Implementation Manual and the 
provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
an expense under Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) to a Partner under 
a Financing Agreement unless the Financing Agreement has been made in accordance with 
eligibility criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Project Implementation Manual and the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultant services under 
contracts costing less than (A) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) 
$50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and (iii) Subprojects, work 
program agreements, training and Operating costs, all under such terms and conditions 
Page  11
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in a commercial bank and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment, two separate special deposit accounts in CFAF. The 
first such special deposit account (Special Account A) shall be used for withdrawals 
made in respect of Subprojects carried out by Communities pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The second such special deposit account (Special Account 
B) shall be used for all other withdrawals made for expenditures under the Project.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the said Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
Page  12
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in respect of Special Account 
A, an amount equivalent to CFAF 350,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited into Special Account A pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000,000, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to 
Special Account A’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000; and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to CFAF 250,000,000, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to 
Special Account B’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
said Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
said Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the said 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association requests for deposit into the said Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the said Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Page  13
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in the said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of: (i) CFAF 350,000,000 
in respect of Special Account A; and (ii) CFAF 500,000,000 in respect of Special 
Account B.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) reducing 
HIV/AIDS prevalence within its territory; and (ii) mitigating the impact of HIV/AIDS 
on persons infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS within its territory.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening of Public Sector Response
1.
Assisting MOHP to improve access to priority HIV/AIDS services and strengthen 
support functions through, inter alia: (i) the supervision and training of health 
staff and traditional healers on HIV/AIDS; (ii) the acquisition of equipment for HIV 
testing and the improvement of the quality of pre- and post-test counseling; (iii) the 
promotion of early STD diagnosis and treatment and the promotion of condom use by 
health staff and traditional healers; (iv) the expansion of treatment for the 
prevention of mother to child transmission of HIV; (v) the improvement of diagnosis 
and treatment of opportunistic infections with emphasis on tuberculosis; (vi) the 
creation and improvement of health information systems including epidemiological 
surveillance systems; (vii) the creation of decentralized management of basic health 
care services; (viii) the support to associations providing assistance to staff and 
their families infected and affected (PLWHA, orphans, widows); and (ix) the systematic 
involvement of traditional healers in HIV/AIDS programs including the creation of an 
Page  14
intensive collaborative pilot initiative; all through the provision of technical 
advisory services and the acquisition of goods and equipment.
2.
Assisting and strengthening the capacity of Core Ministries, MOB, UCM and all 
relevant PSO at the national and regional level, for HIV/AIDS prevention and control 
activities carried out in the public sector, including the preparation and execution 
of Action Plans detailing, among other things, the measures to be taken by the public 
sector staff and the population they serve to initiate or strengthen their fight 
against HIV/AIDS, including: (i) launching, coordinating and sustaining the HIV/AIDS 
control, prevention and analysis activities; (ii) mobilizing on behavioral changes; 
(iii) supporting PLWHA associations (including youth, orphans and widows); (iv) 
expanding counseling and anonymous testing services; (v) conducting workshops and 
information campaigns on the impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and producing training 
manuals and booklets on HIV/AIDS; (vi) promoting the use of condoms through social 
marketing; (vii) assisting communities in preparing and implementing community Action 
Plans; (viii) reviewing and, as necessary, reforming relevant laws and regulations; 
and (ix) preparing gender-responsive sectors-specific HIV/AIDS communication plans in 
Core Ministries; all through the provision of technical advisory services, the 
execution of works for office building and the acquisition of goods and equipment.
Part B:
Strengthening Civil Society Sector Response
1.
(a)
Supporting CSOs’ Action Plans to fight against HIV/AIDS through the 
acquisition of goods and equipment; and (b) contracting out to CSOs, using multi-year 
performance-based contracts for the provision of services, for the purchase of goods 
deemed necessary to the fight against HIV/AIDS or for the preparation and 
implementation of community Action Plans, and for the execution of community based 
HIV/AIDS preventive activities and initiatives, including training activities.
2.
Supporting the implementation and execution of community Subprojects through 
community grants approved in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual.
Part C:
Support to Project Coordination, Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Strengthening the capacity of CNLS Bureau, CNLS TS, CNLS FMU, and CPLS to carry 
out and implement a coordination, management, monitoring and evaluation framework for 
the Project through the provision of technical advisory services, training, the 
acquisition of goods, equipment and vehicles, and the execution of works for office 
rehabilitation.
2.
Contracting out to external agencies and/or consulting entities to: (i) monitor 
and evaluate activities to ensure an independent analysis and the tracking of Program 
performance against targets and variations in accordance with the protocols set forth 
or referred to in the Monitoring and Evaluation Manual; (ii) handle accounting, 
financial reporting, procurement and disbursement functions for the CNLS FMU; and 
(iii) carry out project audits.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Page  15
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Office supplies, equipment and materials estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or 
more but less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Small office equipment and furniture,  medical products and equipment as well as 
printed and training materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines 
under contracts awarded on the basis of: (i) national shopping procedures, if 
available locally; or (ii) international shopping procedures, if not available 
locally.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Spare parts for vehicles, bicycles and motorcycles, minor off-the-shelf 
items and other specialist equipment costing $5,000 equivalent or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, from a particular manufacturer or an authorized 
local supplier in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Proprietary items such as HIV rapid tests costing $5,000 equivalent or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured, with the Association’s prior agreement, from a particular manufacturer or an 
authorized local supplier in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Motorcycles, vehicles, bicycles and computers, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Office of the United Nations (IAPSO), in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association and defined in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  16
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of 
the Guidelines on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$20,000 or more; and (ii) each of the first contracts for specific classes of 
Subprojects (as determined by the Borrower and the Association), the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  17
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for: (i) the facilitation of community participation in the Project; 
and (ii) the provision of contracted services under the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
The following services may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, namely:
(a) 
services for training estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent; 
(b) 
any specific tasks where it is shown that only one firm has the required 
qualifications and experience for their execution; and 
(c)
consulting assignments estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines (including services for small studies) shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to the following, namely: (i) the contracts for the employment of 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (ii) the contracts, 
regardless of value, to be procured in accordance with single source selection 
procedures; (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as determined by the Association; 
(iv) proposed amendments to contracts raising the contract value above the prior 
review thresholds established under this Section II; and (v) the first two contracts 
to be signed in each of the Borrower’s Préfecture for the facilitation of community 
participation in the Préfecture.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more but less than the equivalent of 
$50,000; and (ii) individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  18
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
General
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual, the Monitoring 
and Evaluation Manual and the Clinical Waste Management Plan, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of these 
Manuals or of this Plan without the Association’s prior written approval. These 
Manuals and this Plan will not be amended or waived if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
CNLS and CPLS
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain CNLS, including CNLS Bureau, CNLS TS and CNLS 
FMU, and up to sixteen (16) CPLS (once created) in a form and with functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CNLS at the national level and CPLS at the 
regional level to carry out the daily facilitation, implementation and coordination of 
the Project. CNLS and CPLS shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, 
enter into contracts with PSOs and CSOs for the carrying out by the said entities of, 
respectively, Parts A and B.1 of the Project.
(c)
Not later than March 31, 2002, and thereafter by November 30 of each 
year, the Borrower shall, through CNLS, furnish to the Association for its review and 
approval, proposed detailed annual work plans, including training programs and 
proposed budgets in respect of Project activities for the forthcoming year.
3.
Core Ministries
Not later than March 31, 2002, and thereafter by November 30 of each year, the 
Borrower shall cause its Core Ministries, through CNLS, to furnish to the Association 
for its review and approval, their annual Action Plan for the forthcoming year.
4.
Community Subprojects 
(a)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing under a grant out of the proceeds of the 
Credit unless CNLS or the concerned CPLS has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in 
more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include the following:
(i)
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities 
referred to in Part B.2 of the Project and shall not be for any of 
the activities mentioned in a negative list in the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(ii)
the Subproject shall be initiated and implemented by a Community;
(iii)
the Subproject shall be in accordance with the standards specified 
in the Project Implementation Manual; and
(iv)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth 
in the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to 
its HIV/AIDS Program.
(b)
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Grant Agreements, to be 
concluded between the Borrower through CNLS or the concerned CPLS and the Community, 
Page  19
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the 
following:
(i)
a copy of the approved Subproject, with its budget and its 
performance indicators;
(ii)
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis;
(iii)
the obligation to: (A) carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial and public health standards and the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual; (B) maintain 
adequate records to reflect in accordance with simple and sound 
accounting practices defined in the Project Implementation Manual, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Subproject; and (C) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with 
the standards specified in the Project Implementation Manual;
(iv)
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(v)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works sites, plants and construction included in the Subproject, 
the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(vi)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the 
Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
Subproject; and 
(vii)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Community to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject 
upon failure by the Community to perform any of its obligations 
under its Grant Agreement. 
5.
Partners’ Action Plans
(a)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Action 
Plan shall be eligible for financing under a grant out of the proceeds of the Credit 
unless CNLS or the concerned CPLS has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual, that the Action Plan satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and, 
in more detail, in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include the 
following:
(i)
the Action Plan shall be for any of the types of activities 
referred to Part B.1 (a) of the Project and shall not be for any 
of the activities mentioned in a negative list in the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(ii)
the Action Plan shall be initiated and implemented by a Partner;
(iii)
the Action Plan shall be in accordance with the standards 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual; and
(iv)
the Action Plan shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to its HIV/AIDS Program.
(b)
Action Plans shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
Page  20
concluded between the Borrower through CNLS or the relevant CPLS and a Partner, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the 
following:
(i)
a copy of the approved Action Plan, with its budget and its 
performance indicators;
(ii)
provisions requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis;
(iii)
the obligation to: (A) carry out the Action Plan with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, environmental and public health 
standards and the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual; 
(B) maintain adequate records to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Action Plan; and (C) maintain adequate reporting 
in accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(iv)
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Action Plan;
(v)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, 
works sites, plants and construction included in the Action Plan, 
the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(vi)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the 
Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the Action 
Plan; and 
(vii)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of a 
Partner to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Action Plan upon 
failure by the Partner to perform any of its obligations under its 
Grant Agreement. 
6.
Monitoring and Evaluation Reports
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, and on the basis of annual work plans referred to in the 
provisions of paragraph 2 (c) above, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2003, and thereafter on or about 
March 31 each year, an annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 31 each year, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Page  21
7.
Mid-Term Review
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 2003, carry out jointly 
with the Association, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the 
Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out, no later than one month after the 
completion of the Mid-Term Review, the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review as 
agreed with the Association and set out in an Action Plan for the Project satisfactory 
to the Association.
(c)
The Mid-Term Review shall assess the following: (i) the overall progress 
made in the implementation of the Project; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities.
