Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/10/2007 
Report No.:  AC2906
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Central African Republic 
Project ID:  P073525 
Project Name:  Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project 
Task Team Leader:  Jean J. Delion 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 23, 2001 
Estimated Board Date: December 14, 2001 
Managing Unit:  AFTS3 
Lending Instrument:  Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (47%);Other social services (33%);Central government administration 
(15%);Sub-national government administration (5%) 
Theme:  HIV/AIDS (P);Participation and civic engagement (P);Health system 
performance (S);Population and reproductive health (S);Gender (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
17.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
1.00
1.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project is being restructured.  
 
The revised PDO would be to contribute to meeting (a) urgent needs in the fight against 
HIV, such as access to prevention, treatment, and impact mitigation services (b) urgent 
social needs such as prevention of malaria, increased access to water supply and 
improved primary education.   
 
3. Project Description 
Changes in Project Development Objectives (PDO).  The PDO related to the fight against 
HIV-AIDS have been adjusted in line with the country's updated National Strategy 
against HIV-AIDS (2006-2010).  The revised PDO reflect today's understanding that 
MAP projects cannot use prevalence rates as impact indicators.  The revised PDO would 
be to contribute to (i) urgent needs in the fight against HIV-AIDS such as access to tests 
and treatment (ii) urgent social needs such as prevention of malaria, increased access to 
water supply and improved primary education.  
 
Changes in project components and sub-components.  The project components and sub-
components would reflect the new objectives, addressing HIV-AIDS, health and 
Page  2
education emergency needs.  The restructured project would include a component for 
each sector, plus a component for a small financial management and procurement unit. 
Each component would include sub-components for specific activities.  (Detailed 
changes in the project design are in Annex 2.)  
 
Component 1: Support to the National Program against HIV-AIDS  
 
Subcomponent 1 (a): Civil society responses against HIV/AIDS: The restructured 
project would focus on supporting 50 youth organizations, a federation of associations of 
people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) and 30 PLWHA associations.  
 
Subcomponent 1 (b): Ministry of Health responses against HIV-AIDS. The restructured 
project would support Ministry of Health activities by enhancing access to prevention, 
care and treatment regarding HIV/AIDS.  Project funding for the programs of the 
Ministry of Health would supplement the financing provided by the Global Fund and 
others, focusing in geographic areas not served by other donors.  
 
Subcomponent 1 (c): Other public-sector responses against HIV-AIDS. The restructured 
project would follow the initial objectives of supporting public sector responses in the 
following priority public sectors: Education, Defense, Social and Public Services.  
 
Subcomponent 1(d) Coordination, supervision, M&E. The project would finance the 
operations of the CNLS Technical Secretariat and the decentralized coordinating 
committees at the prefecture level.  The project would also support three studies for the 
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the National Program against HIV/AIDS.  
 
Component 2: Support to emergency Health needs  
 
Component 2 (a):  Malaria prevention and improved access to emergency health 
services  
 
This subcomponent would mainly procure and distribute: (i) about 300,000 insecticide-
treated mosquito nets (ITMN) for pregnant women and children under age five and (ii) 
equipment for emergency health services. It would complement Global Fund support, 
following WHO guidelines.  
 
Subcomponent 2 (b): Small emergency health subprojects.  The project would finance 
small subprojects prepared with communities and civil-society organizations, addressing 
emergency health needs, such as small rural water supply systems and drainage of 
marshlands to reduce reproduction and spreading of mosquitoes.  This subcomponent 
would support the establishment of an agency to channel funds to civil-society 
organizations (CSO) and community initiatives.  
 
Subcomponent 2 (c): coordination, supervision, M&E.  The project would support 
limited financing to assist the Ministry of Health to supervise, monitor, and evaluate the 
above activities.  
 
Component 3: Support to emergency Education needs  
 
Sub-component 3 (a): Training of  primary schools teachers.  The project would 
improve the quality of teaching at the primary level and respond to urgent needs of 
Page  3
providing teaching services, by focusing on teachers? training and improving the student 
to teacher ratio.  
 
Sub-component 3 (b): Access to educational materials in primary schools.  The project 
would provide textbooks and other educational material in primary schools.  
 
Subcomponent3 (c): Coordination, supervision, M&E.  The project would support 
limited financing to assist Ministry of Education to supervise, monitor and evaluate the 
above activities.  
 
Component 4: Support to a financial management and procurement Unit  
 
The project would support a small Financial Management and Procurement Unit, to 
channel funds to the three implementing agencies. The unit would include an experienced 
financial management specialist and an experienced procurement specialist, both 
internationally hired.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Country-wide in areas not already served.  Subcomponent 2(b) would include small rural 
water supply systems and drainage of marshlands to reduce reproduction and spreading 
of mosquitoes.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Amadou Konare (AFTS1) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The restructuring would not change the environmental category of the project.  The 
effects and mitigation measures would be the following:  
 
-
On HIV/AIDS, the project would review the effectiveness of the existing Medical 
Waste Mitigation Plan (MWMP), adjust it to the present context and re-disclose the final 
Page  4
plan, and would fund it with a provision of US$200,000. The MWMP would also serve 
the health sector at large.  
 
-
In the health sector, under component 2, subcomponent b, small projects would 
involve the drainage of small marshlands and rural water supplies at the community level. 
These small projects would not involve land acquisition or resettlement. These small 
projects would trigger OP 4.01 and OP 4.04.  Due to the lack of detailed information on 
the number, scale and environmental characteristics of sub-projects, at this time, the 
Ministry of Health will prepare an Environmental and Social Management Framework 
(ESMF) acceptable to the Bank, with procedures, guidelines and institutional 
arrangements for screening, review, approval, implementation and monitoring sub-
project specific environmental measures.  Before the start of any drainage of marshlands 
or construction of water supply sub-projects, the Borrower will prepare specific sub-
projects Environmental Management Plan.  The ESMP would discuss issues regarding 
OP. 4.37 if it is determined that the project will engage in dam construction.  In the 
context of the EMP, the project would consult broadly project stakeholders on issues 
related to OP 4.07, in particular, the drainage of marshlands and small water supply 
activities, and implement mitigation measures as required. The ESMP would designate 
the authority that would approve each specific ESMP. The use of insecticide-treated bed 
nets would comply with the requirements of OP 4.09. Under the ESMP, MOH would 
provide the list of pesticides involved in treatment of bed nets. Under approval of the 
ESMP, the MOH would confirm that it complies with WHO guidelines (class 3 
pesticides) and would control strict adherence to it during project implementation. Under 
these conditions, the use of impregnated bed nets and class III insecticide for malaria 
would trigger OP4.09 on pest management, but would not require a pest management 
plan, in accordance with 4.01 Annex C.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The Project  environmental category remains unchanged, as B, even with the revision of 
the existing MWMP and preparation of an ESMF, as it is expected that the impacts would 
be minimal, site-specific and manageable to an accepted level.. The financing agreement 
would plan for submission and approval of a revised MWMP and ESMF within three 
months after signing of the revised credit agreement. Approval of the ESMF would be  a 
condition for disbursement for the concerned small projects under sub-component 2(a). 
The restructuring would not involve exception to the Bank's environmental policies.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The Borrower did not envisage alternatives: water supply is a priority in rural areas. The 
Borrower is used to address proliferation of mosquitoes by drainage of marshlands as it is 
a
long-term sustainable option.   
 
Page  5
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
CAR is a post-conflict country, the Bank has limited recent experience. Still, Ministry of 
Environment is willing to apply the planned measures. It will prepare a detailed ESMP 
with assistance from an international consultant in June 2007.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Ministry of Planning and Ministry of Environment plan to organize a review of the 
proposed ESMF with Ministry of Health, Ministry of Energy, Mining and Hydraulic, 
private firms and NGOs involved in the field of the envisaged project activities.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/31/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/15/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/20/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Pest Management Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/31/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/15/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/20/2007 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
No 
Page  6
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jean J. Delion 
04/19/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Amadou Konare 
04/19/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
04/19/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Francois G. Le Gall 
04/19/2007 
Comments:   
