Authorized
                                                                                                                                                      Documentof
                                                                                                                                                   The World Bank

          Disclosure                                                                                                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                    Public
                                                                                                                                                                                       ReportNo.: 39632-CF




                                                                                                                                                   PROJECTPAPER

                          Authorized                                                                                                                     ONA

                                                                                                                                          PROPOSEDRESTRUCTURING

                                    Disclosure                                                                                                         OF THE

                                              Public                                                                                  MULTISECTORALHIV/AIDSPROJECT

                                                                                                                                                       FORTHE

                                                                                                                                 CENTRALAFRICANREPUBLIC (CR.3584-CA)

                                                    Authorized


                                                                                                                                     MULTISECTORALHIV/AIDS,HEALTH,
                                                                                                                             AND EDUCATIONEMERGENCYSUPPORT PROJECT
                                                              Disclosure

                                                                                                                                                       FORTHE
                                                                        Public

                                                                                                                                         CENTRALAFRICANREPUBLIC



                                                                                                                                                     May 10,2007

                                                                              Authorized


                                                                                                           Africa Technical, Environment andSocial SustainableDevelopment 3 (AFTS3)
                                                                                                           Country Department Central Africa 1(AFCC1)
                                                                                        Disclosure         AfricaRegionalOffice

                                                                                                  Public

                                                                                                           This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
                                                                                                           performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
                                                                                                           Bank authorization.

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS     Acquired Immune-deficiency Syndrome
ARV      Anti-retroviral
CAR      Central African Republic
CDD      Community-Driven Development
CNLS TS  CNLS Technical Support
CNLS     National HIV/AIDS Coordinating Committee
cso      Civil-Society Organization
EFAP     Education for All Program
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESMP      Environmental and Social Management Plan
FBOs     Faith-based Organizations
FMPU     Financial Management and Procurement Unit
FTI       Fast Track Initiative
GDH       General Directorate for Hydraulics, Ministry of Energy, MiningandHydraulic
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GF        GlobalFund
HIPC      Heavily-Indebted Poor Country
HN        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICIC      Implementation Committee for IDA Credit 3485-CA
IDA       International Development Association
I-PRSP    InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISN       InterimStrategy Note
ITBN      Insecticide-treatedbednets
K P I     KeyPerformanceIndicator
LICUS     LowIncome Country under Stress
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
M A P     Multi-sectoral Aids Program
MOE       MinistryofEducation
MOH       MinistryofHealth
M o U     Memorandum of Understanding
MTCT      Mother-to-ChildTransmission
MWMP      MedicalWaste Mitigation Plan
MWP       Master Work Program
NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
OMS       Operational Manual Statement
ovc       Orphans andVulnerable Children
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PLWHA     People Living with HIV/AIDS
PMTC      Prevention o f Mother-to-ChildTransmission
PPF       Project PreparationFacility
PTAs      ParentdTeachersAssociations
RESEN     Education Country Status Report /Rapport d'Etat du Systeme EducatifNational
TA        Technical Assistance
TPM       TuberculosePulmonaire Mycobacteria (Microscopy inPulmonary Tuberculosis)
UNAIDS    Joint UnitedNations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNICEF    UnitedNation's Children's Fund
VCT       Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO       World HealthOrganization

                                                                                        ..
                                                                                        11

                             CENTRAL,AFRICAN REPUBLIC

            PROJECT PAPER FORA PROPOSEDRESTRUCTURING OF
                     THE MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS PROJECT



                        MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS. HEALTH.
                AND EDUCATION EMERGENCY SUPPORT PROJECT



                                TABLE OFCONTENTS


1.  DATA SHEET.................................................................................................   iv

2.  INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT.........................................................................                 1

3.  BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFOR RESTRUCTURING.......................................                                  1

4.  PROPOSEDCHANGES....................................................................................            2

5.  ANALYSIS...................................................................................................    7

6.  EXPECTEDRESULTS.....................................................................................           9

7.  REEVALUATIONOF CRITICAL RISKS............................................................                    10



ANNEXES:

Annex 1: EpidemiologicalandEducation Situations inthe Central Afiican Republic
Annex 2: Detailedchanges inproject design .......................................................        .........13
                                                                                                                  15
Annex 3 ResultsFramework. target values. data collection andreporting........................
       .                                                                                                          18
Annex 4.Project Costs .................................................................................... 24
Annex 5.Analysis o f Economic. Financial. and Technical Issues ...............................                   25
Annex 6. Summary of legal covenants ...............................................................              28




                                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                                    111

                                            1-DATASHEET


Date: May 10,2007                                   Co-Task Team Leaders: Jean Delion&
Country: Central African Republic                   Giuseppe Zampaglione
Project Name: Restructuring of the
Multisectoral H N / A I D S Project -               Acting Sector Manager: Franqois G.L e Gall
                                                    Acting Country Director: Marie- Franqoise
Multisectoral HN/AIDS, Health, and                  Marie Nelly
Education emergency support Project
Project ID:PO73525                                  Environmental category: B -PartialAssessment
Credit No3584 CA
Borrower: Central African Republic (Ministry 0: Zconomy, Planningand International
                                                   P




Cooperation)
Responsible agency: Implementation Committee IDA 3584 Credit, c/o Ministry o f Economy,
PlannlngdInternational Cooperation
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)




Current closing date: June 30, 2007 (original June 30,2006)
Revised closing date (proposed): June 30,2010
Therestructuring will be:
Board approved-X-
RVP approved              -

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?           oYes x N o
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                     oYes x N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought fi-om the Board?                    oYes x N o

Revisedproject development objectives: Contribution to meet (a) urgent needs inthe fight against
HIVsuch as accessto prevention, treatment, andimpact mitigationservices and(b) urgent social
needs such as prevention o f malaria, increased access to water supply and improvedprimary
education.
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? Yes. OP 4.01 (Env.
Assessment); OP 4.04 (Nat. Habitats); and OP 4.09 (Pest Mgmt): A Revised Environmental and
Social Management Plan (ESMP) will be adopted no later than 3 months after the Restructuring


                     Source                            Local          Foreign           Total
Borrower
IBRD/IDA
Others




                                                                                                  iv

2. INTRODUCTORY STATEMENT

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Central African Republic Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project,
Credit 3584 CAR, (P07352.5) and subsequent amendments to the project's legal
documents. The proposed changes would allow the project to better respond to the post-
conflict situation in CAR. They would streamline resources for the original purpose o f
fighting HIV/AIDS in CAR, taking into account existing and prospective support from
other donors, and address emergency social needs identifiedwith the Government.

3. BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

2.      Project approval. The project was approved on December 14, 2001. CAR fell
into non-accrual status in February 2002 before the project could become effective; the
country cleared its arrears in November 2006. The original closing date was extended
from June 30,2006 to June 30,2007 to allow for the restructuring o f the project.

3.      Original objectives and design.     The original objectives were to help the
Government reduce HIV/AID,S prevalence in CAR, and to mitigate the impact of
HIV/AIDS on persons infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS. The project included the
following components besides coordination, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation:

(a)   Strengthening of public-sector     response, in policy development, planning,
      implementation, and monitoring o f HIV/AIDS actionplans;
(b) Strengthening of civil-society response, in planning, implementation,                and
      monitoring o f HIV-AIDSaction plans; and
(c)   Strengthening of community response, in capacity building, planning, and
      implementationo f HIV-AIDScommunity action plans.

4.      Performance to date. Disbursements under the IDA Credit were suspended prior
to effectiveness, as the country fell into arrears. Project preparation advances in the
amount o f US$2.0 million were used to support: (a) the establishment and operation of
the Technical Secretariat o f the National HIV/AIDS Coordinating Committee (Comite'
national de lutte contre le SIDA, CNLS) and 16 Provincial HIV/AIDS Committees (b)
capacity buildingo f various stakeholders inall sectors, (c) pilot activities inselected civil
society organizations (CSO) and communities, and (d) mapping o f HIV/AIDSprevalence
in at-risk areas. Many CSO, communities, and public sectors successfully completed
their action plans, funded by PPF advances, by Low Income Country Under Stress
(LICUS) grants or by other donors.        CNLS carried out additional activities using
US$500,000 with the aid of a LICUS grant, and i s currently implementing a second
LICUS grant o f US$400,000.      Supervision missions under the IDA Credit rated the
overall project implementation unsatisfactory, due to the country situation. PPF and
LICUS-funded activities were supervised and audited and their implementation was rated
satisfactory.



                                                                                            1

Reasonsfor project restructuring

5.      New emergencies resulting from civil disturbances and developments since
original project approval. The CAR Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for FY07-08(paragraph
50) proposed to restructure the project to take into account developments since the
project was approved in late 2001, including the availability o f new resources from the
Global Fund, to also address emergency social needs, through the use of some o f the
funds remaining under the HIV/AIDS Project. More than ten years o f civil unrest,
chronic govemment policy mismanagement, and lack or misallocation o f resources have
reduced both the coverage and quality o f essential services, such as primary education,
provision o f basic health services, and access to water and sanitation.           Human
development indicators o f CAR are among the lowest in the world, well below sub-
Saharan averages, and require an emergency response.             In December 2006, an
identificationmission agreed with the Government on priority emergency social needs in
the health and education sectors.     In the health sector, the project would support
prevention against malaria transmission by supplies o f bed nets to pregnant women and
children and by drainage o f marshlands in poor, highly infected areas, reduction o f
transmission o f infectious diseases by construction o f village water systems, as well as
provision o f health equipment for hospital emergency rooms. Inthe education sector, the
project would support improving primary education in CAR by provision o f school
suppliesandon-the-job training o fprimary school teachers.

6.      HIV-AIDS remains a major problem in CAR.                UNAIDS estimates HIV
prevalence in CAR at about 6.2 percent among the population from 15 to 49 years o f age,
well above the 3 to 5 percent rates in neighboring countries. To fight against HIV and
AIDS, the Global Fund(GF) mobilizedUS$29 millionfor the period 2004-2008, and UN
agencies and the World Bank contributed US$14 million. Some bilateral agencies and
faith-based organizations (FBOs) made significant contributions; for example, the
German cooperation supported the provision o f condoms, France provided technical
assistance, and the Red Cross supported a pilot treatment center. Donor support mainly
funded improved access to care and treatment for persons living with HN/AIDS
(PLWHA), support to orphans andprevention(mainly provision o fcondoms), but only in
the capital city. While more funding i s now available, little o f it has been allocated to
prevention, leading to increasing infection rates.      The epidemiological situation is
described more fully inAnnex 1.

4. PROPOSED CHANGES

7.      Changes in Project Development Objectives (PDO). The PDO related to the
fight against HIV and AIDS have been adjusted in line with the country's updated
National Strategy against HIV-AIDS (2006-2010). The revised PDO reflect today's
understanding that MAP projects cannot use prevalence rates as impact indicators. The
revised PDO would be to contribute to meeting(a) urgent needs inthe fight against HIV,
such as access to prevention, treatment, and impact mitigation services (b) urgent social
needs such as prevention o f malaria, increased access to water supply and improved
primary education.


                                                                                          2

8. Changes in project components and subcomponents. The project components
and subcomponents would reflect the new objectives, addressing HN/AIDS, health and education
emergency needs. The restructured project would include a component for each sector, plus a
component for a small financial management and procurement unit. Each component would
include subcomponents for specific activities. (Detailed changes in the project design are in
Annex 2.)


Component 1: Support to the National Program against HIV-AIDS (US$6.46 million)

9.       Subcomponent 1 (a): Civil society responses against HIV/AIDS: The restructured project
would focus on supporting 50 youth organizations, a federation of associations of people living
with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), and 30 PLWHA associations.

10.      Subcomponent 1 (b): Ministry of Health responses against HIV/AIDS. The restructured
project would support Ministry of Health activities by enhancing access to prevention, care, and
treatment regarding HIV/AIDS, Project funding for the programs of the Ministry of Health would
supplement the financing provided by the Global Fund and others, focusing in geographic areas
not served by other donors.

11.      Subcomponent 1 (e): Other public-sector responses against HIV/AIDS. The restructured
project would follow the initial objectives of supporting public-sector responses in the following
priority public sectors: Education, Defense, Social, and Public Services.

12.      Subcomponent 1(d) Coordination, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
The project would finance the operations of the CNLS Technical Secretariat and the decentralized
coordinating committees at the prefecture level. The project would also support three studies for
the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the National Program against HIV/AIDS.

Component 2: Support to emergency Health needs (US$6.56 million)

13.      Component 2 (a): Malaria prevention and improved access to emergency health services.
This subcomponent would mainly procure and distribute: (i) about 300,000 insecticide-treated
mosquito nets (ITMN) for pregnant women and children under age five and (ii)equipment for
emergency health services. It would complement Global Fund support, following WHO
guidelines.

14.      Subcomponent 2 (b): Small emergency community subprojects. The project would finance
small subprojects prepared with communities and civil-society organizations, addressing
emergency health needs, such as small rural water supply systems and drainage of marshlands to
reduce reproduction and spreading of mosquitoes. This subcomponent would support the
contracting of an agency to channel funds to civil-society organizations (CSO) and community
initiatives. It would also support engineers from "Direction Generale de L'Hydraulique" from
Ministry of Energy, Mining




                                                 3

and Hydraulic, to provide the technical assistance to design and implement the civil
works involved.

15.     Subcomponent 2 (c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E. The project would
support limited financing to assist the Ministry o f Health to supervise, monitor, and
evaluate the above activities.

Component3: Supportto emergencyEducation needs(US2.70 million)

16.     Subcomponent 3 (a): Training of primavy schools teachers. The project would
improve the quality o f teaching at the primary level and respond to urgent needs o f
providing teaching services, by focusing on teachers' training and improving the student
to teacher ratio.

17.     Sub-component 3 (b): Access to educational materials in primary schools. The
project would provide textbooks and other educational material inprimary schools.

18.     Subcomponent3 (c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E. The project would
support limited financing to assist the Ministry o f Education to supervise, monitor, and
evaluate the above activities.

Component 4: Supportto a FinancialManagementand ProcurementUnit (US$180,000)

19.     The project would support a small Financial Management and Procurement Unit,
to channel funds to the three implementing agencies.          The unit would include an
experienced financial management specialist and an experienced procurement specialist,
both internationally hired.

Financingplan

20.     The project would finance 100 percent o f the specific project costs.        The
Government would contribute through the payment o f salaries to the staff o f the
Technical Secretariat o f CNLS (CNLS TS), the Provincial AIDS coordinating units, the
health-sector, as well as the HIV/AIDS teams in key ministries such as the Ministry o f
Education and Defense. Furthermore, the Government would also provide offices for the
various units implementing the activities of the restructured project. Details o f the
project costs are presentedinAnnex 5 and contributions by other donors are inAnnex 7.

Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

21.     Coordination: Implementation arrangements would reflect the involvement o f
concerned sectors, that is, CNLS (on HIV/AIDS related issues), Health, Education and
Ministry o f Mining, Energy and Hydraulic (on water supply and drainage). To provide
effective support to these sectors, the government would take, prior to the effectiveness
o f Project restructuring, an inter-ministerial decision to create (a) an "Implementation
Committee for IDA Credit 3485-CA" (ICIC) as a formal inter-ministerial committee to
be chaired by a representative from the Ministry o f Planning, and (b) a financial

                                                                                        4

management and procurement unit (FMPU) attached to this committee, described below.
The members o f this ICIC would be a representative o f Ministry o f Planning (Chair), a
senior officer from each Ministry involved in implementation o f project activities and
from CNLS, and one officer from the Ministry o f Finance. The ICIC would supervise the
Financial Management and Procurement Unit (FMPU); it also would approve annual
work plans and budgets, quarterly reports, and M&E reports o f the project. The members
of the Committee would take part in regular supervision missions. The representative
from the Ministry o f Planning in the ICIC would co-sign withdrawal requests with the
project financial officer.

22.     Central fiduciary services: The Committee would hire internationally an
experienced financial management specialist and a procurement specialist to serve in
FMPU, together with a locally hired administrative assistant. CNLS would host FMPU
in its offices and support its daily activities. FMPUwould procure major supplies and
make them available to the three concerned sectors concerned. It would advance funds to
these three sectors to cover their operational costs and other expenditures to implement
their activities and to an agency channeling funds to civil-society organizations (CSOs)
and communities. FMPU would also manage the Designated Account and would be
responsible for financial reporting, preparation o f statements o f expenses and annual
financial reporting on the project. Furthermore, it would supervise the use o f funds
advanced to implementing partners. Establishment o f the "Implementation Committee
for IDA Credit 3485-CA", approval by IDA o f the revised project implementation
manual and procurement plan, establishment o f the FMPU and hiring o f financial
management and procurement staff with satisfactory qualifications, selection and
appointment of financial management staff with satisfactory qualifications in CNLS TS,
Ministry of Health and Education, to manage IDA credit funds would be conditions for
effectiveness.

23.     The conditions for effectiveness are presented in details in Annex 6. The
Government has already started to prepare to meet the major conditions. Two missions
are planned, in May and June 2007, to make sure that these conditions are met by early
July 2007 so that the Project can proceed immediately after approval.

24.     Small coordination, financial management and M&E units in the concerned
Ministries: Under the restructured project, the FMPU would procure goods and channel
funds to the implementingsectors and to supporting units such as GDH. Ineach sector a
small financial management unit would manage advances. CNLS TS already established
a small financial management unit which managed four project preparation advances and
two LICUS grants. It also manages small grants from other donors including UN
agencies. CNLS also built technical capacities inthe Ministryo f Health and coordination
capacities at the provincial level, establishing task forces to coordinate various
interventions. Experts trained during the last five years would scale up their activities,
along project activities in CNLS TS, provinces, the Ministry o f Health, other public
sectors, CSOs, and communities.




                                                                                        5

25.       Supporting capacity building for implementing community-based projects by contracting
an agency to channel funds to CSOs and communities . The Ministry of Planning expressed
interest in contracting such an agency for the restructured IDA credit and for other funds intended
for CSOs and communities. The Ministry of Health would support and use this agency to channel
grants for small projects under subcomponent 2(b). The agency under would also channel grants
to CSO and communities (youth organizations and the Federation of PLWHA) under component
l(a). It would channel funds to CSOs as grants, with grant agreements to implement action plans
(including output indicators). As soon as the agency would be contracted, the ICIC, and its FMPU
could sign a contract as services providers with this agency to channel funds to CSO and
communities. During project year 2, the two internationally recruited specialists mentioned above
would transfer their responsibilities to the agency and would play an advisory and control role.
During year 3 they would only do short technical assistance missions. Under a LICUS financed
US$2.7 million operation, the Bank is supporting a Community-Driven Development (CDD)
pilot in four prefectures in the East of the CAR, reaching more than 80 poor communities. This
project will serve as a pilot and the TA specialists would work closely with the management unit
of the on-going CDD pilot. This unit would be temporary, to provide services to the various
sectors involved, it would be disbanded at the end of the project.

26.      Implementation agreements with public sectors: The ICIC would sign agreements with
public sector agencies and would fund their activities, using advances, as was done with PPF
advances.


27.      Monitoring and evaluation. The updated monitoring and evaluation arrangements will be
presented in details in a revised M&E manual, under the overall implementation manual. A new
Results Framework is in Annex 3. Expected results (see Section 7) will comprise key outputs
across the three components to reflect the nature of activities supported and taking into account
the lack of baseline values against which concrete targets can be set. Because there are very
limited baseline data available the project would mainly use the output indicators presented in the
Results Framework. In the education sector, the project would add a suitable outcome indicator
during project implementation and make efforts to measure this indicator.

28.      Financial management. As initially planned, the project's financial statements would be
audited in accordance with International Standards of Auditing annually by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.


29.      Programmatic efforts on HIV/AIDS: During the project period, CAR would make efforts
to progress toward a programmatic approach. Main donors would join and take the following
concrete steps to contribute to one national program, starting in 2007:

           At least one joint supervision involving main donors each year;



                                                      6

          Joint presentation of annual work plans and budgets inside one annual work plan and
              budget of the national program approved by CNLS each year;
          Financial and technical support to M&E studies; and
          Capacity building of the national drugs agency to become the main agency to
              procure tests and antiretroviral (ARV) drugs for all programs.

30.      Procurement. Procurement under the PPF advances and under LICUS grants moved from
moderately unsatisfactory during the first years to satisfactory in 2006. Procurement reviewers
and auditors advised changes, which were satisfactorily implemented. The restructured credit
would be implemented on the basis of the same procurement arrangements, under the
responsibility of the FMPU and detailed in the Operations Manual, but it would be subject to the
revised General Conditions, and anti- corruption guidelines. Approval of this revised procurement
plan would be a condition for effectiveness.

31.      Revision of the operational manual: The Borrower plans to revise the implementation
manual, incorporating the above changes. The CDD LICUS financed pilot has prepared a full
manual on CDD operations, with detailed procedures and forms to implement the project in
collaboration with all partners such as international and local NGOs, national and local
government authorities, and the communities. An adapted version of this manual could be the
basis for the operations of the newly contracted agency. Approval of the revised manual would be
a condition for effectiveness. A consolidated Environment Management Plan would need to be
prepared within three months of restructuring effectiveness.

Closing date

32. The project closing date was extended from June 30, 2006 to June 30, 2007. The new closing
date would be September 30, 2010, leaving three years for project implementation.

5. ANALYSIS

Economic and financial analysis.

33.      In the HIV-AIDS sector, the economic analysis of the concerned activities is supported by
the recent work under the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region
(Report No. P7497). The report provides an assessment of the impact of prevention, access to
testing, care and treatment, and a cost-benefit analysis of HIV/AIDS interventions; it shows that a
reduction in AIDS-related deaths would increase the growth of GDP. It also concludes that
HIV/AIDS reduces the value of physical, human, and social capital. The project activities would
not carry additional financial charges for the government. Major donors took part in a CNLS
general assembly in July 2006 that approved the National Strategy 2006-2010 and pledged
support to implement this strategy. The government also envisages using part of HIPC resources,
after 2009, to support the fight against HIV-AIDS.




                                                 7

34.     In the health sector, a least-cost approach would be used, because it would be
hard to measure financial and economic benefits. Malaria prevention with insecticide-
treated bed nets would reduce malaria transmission for young children, improving health
and saving lives at a low cost.        Evidence from other African countries show that
investments in mosquito nets, if accompanied by adequate distribution and training on
how to use them, have a highreturn interms o f reduction o f prevalence, and reduction o f
morbidity and mortality rates. Improved equipment in emergency health services has
direct effects in lives saved. Community-based projects would have specific economic
and financial impacts. For example, drainage o f swamps would reduce transmission o f
malaria and small rural water supplies decreases morbidity. All these activities are low
cost and have a large impact.

35.     In the education sector, provision o f school supplies would entail a small cost per
pupil, and together with support to on-the-job training o f teachers, would improve the
quality o fprimary education inCAR, which has considerably deteriorated inrecent years.
The Country Status Report in Education (RESEN) shows investment in school material
and in teachers (preparedness and willingness to teach) have the highest returns in
improving quality o f education (see Annex 5).

36.     For all three sectors, the project would document the economic and financial
impact of the specific activities on a retroactive basis at project end.

37.     From a social analysis perspective, the restructuring would not have negative
social consequences. It would pay specific attention to gender issues in prevention
activities (both on HIV/AIDS andmalaria, with an emphasis on sex workers andpregnant
women).

38.     From an environmental perspective, the restructuring would not change the
environmental category o f the project. The effects and mitigation measures would be the
following:


    0   On HIV/AIDS, the project would review the effectiveness o f the existing Medical
        Waste Mitigation Plan (MWMP), adjust it to the present context and re-disclose
        the final plan, and would fund it with a provision o f US$200,000. The MWMP
        would also serve the health sector at large.
    0   Inthe healthsector, under Component 2, Subcomponent (b), smallprojects would
        involve the drainage o f small marshlands and rural water supplies at the
        community level. These small projects would not involve land acquisition or
        resettlement. However, they would trigger OP 4.01 and OP 4.04. Before the start
        o f any drainage o f marshlands or construction o f water supply subprojects, the
        Ministry of Health will be required to produce an Environmental and Social
        Management Framework (ESMF) that needs to be acceptable to the Bank, with a
        framework and guidelines for conducting impact assessments and preparing
        Environmental and Social Management Plans (ESMP)                 against specific
        subprojects.   The ESMF will discuss issues regarding OP. 4.37, if it was


                                                                                          8

        determined that the project will engage in dam construction; in regard with OP
        4.07, the project would consult broadly project stakeholders on issues related to
        drainage o f marshlands and small water supply activities.         The ESMF will
        designate the authority that would approve each specific ESMP. The use o f
        insecticide-treated bed nets would comply with the requirements of OP 4.09.
        Under the ESMF, M O H will provide the list o fpesticides involved intreatment o f
        bed nets. Under approval of the ESMF, MOH will confirm that it complies with
        WHO guidelines (class 3 pesticides) and would control strict adherence to it
        during project implementation. Under these conditions, the use o f impregnated
        bed nets and class I11 insecticide for malaria would trigger OP4.09 on pest
        management, but would not require a pest management plan, in accordance with
        4.01 Annex C.

39.     Therefore, the project would remain as category B. The financing agreement
would plan for submission and approval o f a revised MWMP and ESMF within three
months after signing o f the revised credit agreement. Approval o f the ESMF would be a
condition for disbursement for the concerned small projects under Subcomponent 1(a)
and 2(b). The restructuring would not involve exception to the Bank's environmental
policies.

6. EXPECTEDRESULTS

40.     I n the HIV/AIDS sector, the envisaged results as to increased adoption o f
HIV/AIDS prevention measures and increased access to treatment will be measures by 3
outcome indicators: (i)  number o f men and women who accepted VCT and received test
results intargeted health centers; (ii) o f PLWA receiving ARV in targeted health
                                       number
centers; and (iii)number ofPLWHA receiving support through their associations or their
national federation o f associations. All activities would complement activities already
carried-out by other donors. The project would provide: (a) PMTCT services to pregnant
women intargeted Health centers; (b) access to voluntary testing and counseling services
to youth and adults in selected health centers; and (c) access to treatment to additional
patients in selected health centers; in addition, the project would support (d) PLWHA in
their national federation o f associations o f PLWHA and intheir associations; (e) support
action plans o f youth associations and selected public sectors; (0 test 110,000 blood
transfusion pockets in selected health centers; and (g) implement a medical waste
mitigation plan in selected healthcenters.

41.     I n the health sector, the main results as to increased adoption o f preventive
measures against malaria and increased access to water supply would be measured
through using outputs indicators, such as distribution of impregnated bed nets,
establishment o f additional rural water points, drainage o f marshlands, installation o f new
emergency equipment inselectedhealth centers. The target project values for the number
o f people to benefit from water points and surfaces o f marshlands to drain would be
decided during preparation o f the baseline survey. The target communities would be
severely underserved populations, with no access to clean water or having major
infestations o f mosquitoes reproducing inmarshlands.


                                                                                             9

42.      In the Education sector, the main result as to improved primary education would be
measured against two output targets to be set: the number of teachers meeting minimum teaching
qualifications in targeted areas and the student hooks ratio in the targeted areas. "The minimum
teaching skills" for the qualitative indicator would be defined during preparation of the baseline
survey and target values would be entered accordingly. Outcome indicators of quality of
education would be hard to measure over a very short period.

43.      On the institutional side, the project would develop management capacities in all three
sectors; it would also contract an agency to channel fund to CSOs and communities, which would
become the entry point for CDD funds from various sources.


7. REEVALUATION OF CRITICAL RISKS.

44.      The main risks include: (a) political instability and civil unrest, which can be mitigated
through French and other international assistance to the security situation as well as through
economic recovery and development programs; (b) shortage of institutional capacity to carry out
the operations of the restructured project; and (c) limited use or misuse of goods and services
provided under the health and education emergency components by the project management unit,
local elites and/or community members. These risks would be mitigated by the planned
institutional arrangements and by training of potential beneficiaries in the use of goods and
services provided by the project. In the case of anti-malaria strategies, mosquito nets would be
distributed in the context of the massive immunization campaigns that the Government, with
support from WHO and UNICEF, has launched in recent months. Distribution would be
accompanied by short training. Teachers benefiting from on-the-job training would receive school
supplies and teaching materials, and would be trained to teach students, parents, and Parents
Teachers Associations (PTAs) on how to best manage school supplies. CDD approaches and an
adapted version of the existing manual of the pilot CDD operation will ensure that elite capture is
negligible and that procedures and targeting approaches are transparent and equitable. Other risks
include low utilization of bed nets and poor management of school supplies. The concerned
ministries would monitor these risks together with supervision missions. The project would
undertake a study at mid-course to assess use and management of supplies and take corrective
actions as needed. The risks are reevaluated in Annex 6.




                                                10

Annex 1:EpidemiologicalandEducationSituationsin the CentralAfrican Republic

1,      The increasing poverty and disintegration of social structures have contributed to
the growing incidence o f communicable diseases, including malaria, diarrhea, HIV, and
AIDS. Only 37 percent o f the rural population lives less than 10 km from a sanitary
service.  With on an average one health center for 6,000 and one bed for 1,095
inhabitants, and health centers having little equipment and sanitary material and often
operating without tap water, latrines, and adequate management o f biomedical waste, the
current health-sector infrastructurei s grossly inadequate.

2.     HIV/AIDS epidemiology. HIV/AIDS and its "opportunistic diseases" have
become a substantial threat to the economic and social development o f the country. The
number ofpeople infectedwith HIV has increased steadily since the identification of the
first cases o f AIDS in the mid-eighties. UNAIDS estimated that at the start o f the
original project in 2001, 10.7 percent of the population aged 15 to 49 was infected with
HIV. UNAIDS used a methodbased on measuring the HIV/AIDS infectionrate among
pregnant women and extrapolatingthe results to the whole population. This placed CAR
as the 10thmost HIV-infected country insub-Saharan Africa.

3.      In2006, CNLS conducted a seroprevalence study on 11samples (including 5,413
women and 5,179 men from 15 to 49 years o f age) all over the country, with assistance
supported by many donors, including IDA under PPA advances. CAR has a generalized
epidemic with highregional variations however.

    e   OverallHIV prevalence rate inCAR i s 6.2 percent
    e   Gender: The HIV prevalence rate for women i s 7.8 percent and for men 4.3
       percent
    e  Age: The highest prevalence rate for women i s inthe age group 30 to 35 years (12
       percent) and for men inthe age group 35 to 39 years (10percent)
    e  Type o f society: Inurban areas the HIV prevalence rate is 8.3 percent and inrural
       areas 4.7 percent
    e  Administrative regions: There are substantial differences between prefectures, the
       prevalence rate ranging from 1percent to 15 percent, with 7.8 percent inBangui
       the capital city.
    e  Religion: The prevalence rate for the Catholics i s almost the same as for
       Protestants (3.4 percent for menand 7.4 for women vs. 4.3 percent for men and
       7.4 for women). Muslimshave higher rates at 9.7 percent and 10.7 percent,
       respectively, and animists the highest (11.O overall)
    e  Education level: The highestprevalence rate among men i s for those with high
       school and university education (10.4 percent) and for women for those with
       secondary education (13.O percent)
    e  Profession: The far highest prevalence rate i s among the uniformed personnel
       (military, police) at 21.1 percent.        The second highest is among service
       occupations and non-skilledworkers at 8.5 percent




                                                                                       11

         Standard o f living: The highest prevalence rates are in the richest group (4.9
        percent for men and 10.9 for women) and the lowest for the poorest people (3.4
        percent for menand 4.7 percent for women).

4.       The former UNAIDS estimates were based on few antenatal clinics.             New
estimates are based on a wider national sample. Similar differences have been observed
in many other countries, including in neighboring countries Cameroon and Benin. The
lower estimate in2006 may also be affected bythe highmortality of PLWHA since 2001.
Based on the recent study, the total number o f seropositive people would be about
200,000, most o f whom are not aware o f their infection status and contribute to spreading
the infection. Among the infected persons, 54 percent are estimated to be women, 42
percent men, and 4 percent childreno f 0-14. Currently only 2,000 AIDS patients receive
ARV treatment. The number oforphan childrenis estimated at about 110,000.

5.      Malaria. Malaria is one o f the most important causes of death in CAR. There
were 2,210 malaria cases per 100,000 people in2000. In2003, the mortality rate due to
malaria was 650/100,000 inhabitants, but amounted to 777/100,000 in the 0-4 year
category. The available indicators confirm the severity o f the health crisis, o f which
malaria ranks as one o f the key causes. From 1988 to 2003 life expectancy went from
48.9 to 42.7 years. From 1995 to 2003 the maternal mortality ratio increased from 986 to
1355 per 100,000 and the under five mortality from 157 to 220/1000.

6.       CNLS TS reports the following contributions from the Global Fund and other
donors.

Global Fundcontributions

 Programs                         Period    Budget       Budget      Amount       Balance
                     budget                 phase 1      phase2      spent
                                            (2 years)     (3 years)

 access to global
 treatment for         25,0903 94
                                  2004-2009    8,198,921  16,811,673  12446735    12,643,859
 Strengthening
 support to orphans    16,265,930
                                  2005-2010    4,695,012  11.570.918   3347750    12.918.180
 Strengthening the
 fight against          4,808,885
 Tuberculosis                     2005-2010    1,939,529                           2,953,483
 Reducing malaria
 inCAR                 17,857,068 2005-2010  10,592,8 16                          12,574,320




                                                                                         12

                                                      Targets for
                                                      phase 1
 Programs                  Global Fundindicators      (2 years)

  Strengthening           Nb ofpatients underARV                                    3,961
  access to global                                    1,400
 treatment for            Nb ofpatients accessing                            I
 PLWHA                    Voluntary Counseling and                 106,000         58,645
                          Testing(VCT)                31,000
                          Number o f foster families
                          supported with food and                            I      4,603
                          supplies                    2,250

  Strengthening           Number o f Orphans and
  support to orphans      Vulnerable Children
                          (OVC) reintegrated into     4,500                         7,676
                          "foster families"
                          Number o f O V C                                   I
                          sponsored inschool          6,000                        11,080

                          Number o f new TPM+
  Strengthening the       cases identified            6,050        7,700            6,159
  fight against
 tuberculosis             Number o f new TPM+
                          cases treated with success  2,723

                          Number o f households                              I
                          with long term ITBN         280,000                     125,828
 Reducingmalaria
 inCAR                    Number o f children <5
                          years accessing to malaria                              206,430
                          treatment inhealth centers  51,609


 Main contributionsfrom other donors

                         2004              2005           2006        Total 2004-06         % of
                         (US$)            (US$)           (US$)          (US$)          contributions


 WORLD FOOD               730,234          1,185,843      2,338,851        4,254,928              27.88
I   PROGRAM        I                I                I              I                I                 I




 Source:Dataassembled by UNAIDS,December2006




                                                                                                   13

7.      Education: The recent deterioration of the education system i s a major challenge.
School attendance tripled between 1960 and 1970 and increased by a further 40 percent
duringthe 1970s. However, since the late 1980s, the education systemhas been avictim
of civil strife: (a) the completionrate inthe primary cycle stagnated at around 30 percent
duringthe period 1988-2005; (b) the teachedpupil ratio fell from 1/63 in 1987 to 1/87 in
2003 and 1/79 in 2004 and 1/92 in2005/2006 period, reaching as low as 1/160 incertain
schools); the girlshoys ratio has stayed at about 7 to 10. Furthermore, the quality o f
education is low; the rate of success inthe final examinationo f the primary school is only
about 34 percent. The results o f the report on the national situation by the recent Country
Status Report (Rapport d 'Etat d'un Systkme Educatif National -RESEN) assessment
show that actual learning inmathematics and French i s among the lowest inFrancophone
countries. The repetitionrate i s high at more than 30 percent o f pupils versus an average
o f 10 percent in Africa, and 40 o f pupils drop out before completing primary school.
Almost half o f the teachers inthe primary schools are "parent-teachers," poorly paid, and
livinginthepoorest villages.




                                                                                         14

                  Annex 2: Detailedchanges in Project design

Component 1: Support to the NationalProgram againstHIV/AIDS

1.      Subcomponent 1 (a): Civil society responses against HIV and AIDS: The
restructured project would focus on supporting action plans against HIVIAIDS prepared
by two main categories of CSO: around 50 youth organizations, a federation o f
associations o f people living with HIV-AIDS (PLWHA) and 30 PLWHA associations in
areas not yet supported by other donors. These CSO would focus on behavioral changes
and support to infected and affected people. Both youth organizations and associations o f
PLWHA would make special efforts to reach sex workers, following training o f trainers
provided with PPF support to 10youth organizations and to the federation o f PLWHA. In
2004, similar training involved four young sex workers organizations and two branches
o f the federation of PLWHA (young sex workers and adult sex workers). The project
would select beneficiary organizations on the basis of criteria defined in the Operational
Manual o f the project. Financing would be based on annual contracts with an obligation
to report against key project indicators.

2.      Subcomponent 1 (b): Ministry of Health responses against HIV/AIDS.              The
restructured project would support M o H in its efforts to enhance access to HIVIAIDS
prevention, care, and treatment.       Project funding for the programs o f M o H would
supplement the financing providedby the Global Fundand others, focusing in geographic
areas and activities not served by these other donors to increase use o f PMTCT services
bypregnantwomen incenters:

                 Increase use o f VCT services;
            0    Increase access to ARV by PLWA; and
            0    Improve compliance with national blood testing guidelines and with a
                 medicalwaste mitigationplan.

Financing would be based on annual contracts with an obligation to report against key
project indicators.

3.      Subcomponent 1 (c):       Other public-sector responses against HIV/AIDS.       The
restructured project would keep the initial objectives o f supporting public sector
responses but would reduce this support to four priority public sectors, that is, the
Ministries o f Education, Defense, Social and Public Services. The project would support
priority activities identified inthese ministries and contributing to prevention and support
to affected and infected people, using annual agreements with outputs and results
indicators. CNLS successfully funded such action plans between 2002 and 2006, under
PPFs advances. Bed nets would be distributed as part o f the on-going comprehensive
under 5 immunization campaigns.

4.      Subcomponent 1(d) Coordination, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation.
The project would finance the operation o f the CNLS Technical Secretariat and provide
limited support to the decentralized coordinating committees at the prefecture level.


                                                                                         15

CNLS Technical Secretariat would assist the various actors implementing the national strategy
against HIV/AIDS to prepare their annual action plans and budgets in line with the framework of
a national program against HIV/AIDS. The project would also support three key steps in
monitoring and evaluation: a national Health and HIV-AIDS study, a second generation sero-
surveillance study, and quarterly reports of health centers against the National HIV-AIDS
Strategy indicators.

Component 2: Support to emergency needs in the Health Sector 5. Component                2    (a):
Malaria prevention and improved access to emergency health services. This subcomponent
would mainly procure and distribute: (i) insecticide-treated bed nets (ITBN) for pregnant women
and children under age five and (ii)equipment for emergency health services. It would
complement the limited provision of ITMN under the Global Fund program, and follow WHO
guidelines and existing arrangements for distribution.


6.       Subcomponent 2 (b): Small emergency community subprojects. The project would finance
small subprojects prepared with communities and civil-society organizations, addressing
emergency health needs. These would include mainly (i) small rural water supply systems
contributing to improve health and to reduce of transmission of infectious disease (ii)drainage of
marshlands to reduce reproduction and spreading of mosquitoes and (iii)other works, supplies and
services of an emergency nature as identified by communities as priorities (small medical
supplies, limited rehabilitation, training of health workers and of community members in basic
preventive care). This subcomponent would support contracting of an agency to channel funds to
CSOs and communities initiatives. It would also support engineers from General Directorate from
Hydraulics (GDH), from Ministry of Energy, Mining and Hydraulic, to provide the technical
assistance to design and implement the civil works involved.


7.       Subcomponent 2 (c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E. The project would support
limited financing to assist the Ministry of Health to supervise, monitor, and evaluate the above
activities.

Component 3: Support to emergency needs in the Education Sector

8.       Subcomponent 3 (a): Training of primary schools teachers. The project would improve
the quality of teaching at the primary level and respond to urgent needs in providing teaching
services, by focusing on teachers' training and improving the student to teacher ratio; US$1.5
million would be used to finance twenty months of on-the-job training for student-teachers. This
activity would involve around 750 new apprentice teachers in the classrooms to help them get
acquainted with on-the-job educational challenges. The proposed student-teachers system would
help make the transition towards increased and better prepared educational staff,

9.       Subcomponent 3 (b): Access to educational materials in primary schools. Increase the
number of textbooks, small furniture, teaching kits, and other educational material in primary
schools in underserved areas.




                                                 16

10.      The two above activities would address urgent needs in the education sector, as
part o f the Government strategy to address the systemic weakness o f the sector. This
strategy i s centered inthe preparation o f a plan, which would then allow CAR to access
the Education for All Program (EFAP) under the Fast Track Initiative (FTI). EFAP i s a
major global multi-donor partnership initiative to enable more low-income countries to
access donor resources and accelerate progress towards quality universal primary
education. The FTI i s a special funding mechanism o f the EFAP, administered by the
World Bank in support o f the poorest performers inprimary education, to enable them to
have access to the EFAP funding, also by finalizing an education strategic plan, which in
the case o f CAR i s currently under preparation following the diagnostic o f the sector
(RESEN). There would be a clear continuity between the actions proposed under this
component and a full Educationfor All program.

11,      Subcomponent3 (c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E. The project would
support limited financing to assist the Ministry o f Education to supervise, monitor and
evaluate the above activities.

Component4: Supportto a FinancialManagementand ProcurementUnit

12.      The project would support a small Financial Management and Procurement Unit
whose primary purpose i s to channel funds to the three implementing agencies. The unit
would include a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist, both
internationally hired and experienced in similar projects. The unit would be placed under
the authority o f the ICIC. The unit could be hosted in one office in CNLS and use the
facilities put inplace with IDA funds inCNLS.




                                                                                      17

               Annex 3: ResultsFramework,target values, data collection and reporting


        Table a. Resultsframework

        1.      Expectedresults will comprise key outputs across the three components to reflect
        the nature o f activities supported and taking into account the lack o fbaseline values
        against which concrete targets can be set

                PDO                             Key Outcome Indicators                  Use of Outcome Information

                                      Increased adoption o f HIV/AIDS mevention
Contribution to meet (a) urgent needs measures and increased access to treatment:
inthe fight againstHIV suchas         (i)Number of men and women who                  Informationwould demonstrate
access to prevention, treatment, and       accepted V C T and received test results   effectiveness ofboth HIV/AIDS
impact mitigation services, and (b)        intargetedhealthcenters.                   awareness1sensitization campaign
urgent social needs such as           (ii)NumberofPLWAreceivingARVin                  as well as availability and use o f
prevention o f malaria, increased          targeted health centers.                  testing material. Access to VCT
access to water supply and improved   (iii)NumberofPLWHAreceivingsupport              was chosen as K P I since testing i s
primary education.                         through their associations or their        entrypoint for other measures
                                           national federation o f associations.      aiming at prevention and
                                                                                      treatment.
                                      Increased adoption o f preventive measures
                                      against malaria
                                       (vi) Additional number o f households using    Information would demonstrate
                                           ITBNs.                                     adoption very important
                                                                                      preventionmeasure, which has a
                                       Increasedaccess to water supplv:               highimpactyonmalaria
                                       (v) Number o f people having access to water   prevalence, as experience shows.
                                           points provided by the project.
                                                                                      Informationwould show
                                      Improved primary education:                     qualitative impact o f project
                                       (vi) Number o f teachers meeting minimum outputs oneducation quality.
                                           teaching qualifications' intargeted areas. Information would also support
                                                                                      preparation o f future investments
                                                                                      o f the World Bank inthe
                                                                                      Educationsector.




        'listof minimum aualifications is to be determined along preparation of baseline study

                                                                                                              18

Intermediate Results                  ResultsIndicators and Key Outputs for Each            Use of Results
                                                        Component                             Monitoring
Component 1: Support to the       0   (i)Number of pregnant women reached by             To monitor to which
National Program avainst HIV-         PMTCT during the last 12 months in targeted        degree and
AIDS                                  Healthcenters                                      immediate effects
                                  0   (ii) ofbloodtransfusionpocketstestedfor
                                          Number                                         key activities o f the
                                      HIVand other bloodborne infections intargeted      nationalprogram
                                      health centers                                     have beencarried
                                  0   (iii) ofhealthcentersimplementing
                                           Number                                        out.
                                      measures planned inthe MedicalWaste Mitigation
                                      Plan
                                  0   (iv) Number o fpublic-sector HIV actionplans
                                      developed and implemented
                                      (v) Number o f youth HIV action plans developed
                                       and implemented

Component 2:                       0   (i)
                                         Number o f ITBNdistributedthrough project.      To monitor
Support to Emergency health        0   (ii) ofnewruralcommunitywaterpoints
                                          Number                                         implementationo f
Needs                                  established through project.                      key activities from
                                   0   (iii) areadrained(throughproject)of(previous)
                                           m2                                            National Program
                                       standing water and marshlands identified by       against Malaria with
                                      population as major cause o f malaria transmission high probability o f
                                       in communities                                    expected impact on
                                                                                         malaria prevalence
                                                                                         (on the basis of
                                                                                         proven experience
                                                                                         made inother malaria
                                                                                         infested areas).
Component 3:                                                                             To increase quality
Support to Emergency Education     0   (i)Studentbooks ratio intargeted areas            and results o f primary
Needs                                                                                    education

      2.      Arrangements for results monitoring.                  FMPU would have the main
      responsibility for collecting and transmitting the M&E reports form each sector.
      Quarterly and annual reports would come from benefitinghealth centers, youth, PLWHA
      associations, public sectors, and communities; these reports would be a condition for
      follow-up support as detailed in the implementation manual.              FMPU would contract a
      study to collect baseline data within six months o f effectiveness and another study at
      project end. Each implementing sector (or agency in the case o f grants to CSO and
      communities) would have the responsibility to collect and present data against the above
      indicators. At the end o f each year, each sector would document the status o f the above
      indicators in annual reports, to be produced no later than 3 months after the end o f each
      year. Each sector would also document indicators in its sector in general. For example,
      CNLS would document generic MAP indicators.                  CNLS provided a table o f these
      indicators; it is available as a supporting document. As described in the main text, the
      project would also contribute to data collection to monitor and evaluate implementation
      o f the National AIDS strategy, on a quarterly basis, against the indicators of this strategy.




                                                                                                        19

w
rr    0
      0

U   0-
5   8
      CY

-4
w
U
5
4
w   0
    0      0
           0
5   8      P

d
E   z

    0      0   3

            -+-----




2            0
             0
W            0
             vl
9



s
U
M
E



   0   3     0

      0         0
      d     d
                 K)




3
z-    0
      m

d-


z*
3
3     0
      r4

N



            3   0

                            m
                            hl




           3
           ci

                    .% B
                      a




0
0
8
v,
3




0
0
8
v,



0     0    0




                 .E
                  0
                 .r(
                 YE

                                       Annex 4: Project Costs
 The table below present the project costs for the remaining SDR13,300,000 after
 deduction o f PPF advances already consumed (SDR 1,350,000). The table i s only an
 estimation inUSD basedon equivalency o f SDR13,300,000 at time of project preparation


Project Cost by Component andor Activity                                                 Total
                                                                                     (US$ million)
Component 1:Support to the National Program against HIV-AIDS
Subcomponent1(a): Civil -society responses against HIV-AIDS                                       720
Subcomponent I (b): Ministry of Health responses against H I V M D S                           4,599
Subcomponent I (c): Otherpublic-sector responses against HIV/AIDS                                 180
Subcomponent 1(d): Coordination, supervision, and M&E                                            970
Total component 1:                                                                             6,469

Component 2 :Support to emergency health needs
Subcomponent 2(a): Malaria prevention and improved access to emergency
health services                                                                                2,700
Subcomponent 2(b): Support to emergency community subprojects                                   3,680
Subcomponent 2 c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E                                             I80
Total component2 :                                                                              6,560

Component 3 :Support to emergency educationneeds
Subcomponent 3(a): Training of primary schools teachers                                         1,260
Subcomponent 3(b): Provision of educational material inprimary schools                          1,260
Subcomponent 3(c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E                                             I80
Total component3 :                                                                              2,700

Component 4: Support to a Financial Management and Procurement Unit
(FMPU)
Consultant and operational costs of the FMPU                                                      I80
Total component4 :                                                                                180

Unallocated                                                                                     1,591

Total of the four componentsand unallocated                                                   17,500
 IThe total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$17.5 million. IDA will finance 100percent of project
 costs net o f taxes. Details are provided under the financing plan.




                                                                                                 24

            Annex 5: Analysis ofEconomic,Financial,andTechnicalIssues

1.     The proposed changes would affect the original social, economic, financial,
technical, institutional, and social aspects o f the project design. The main results o f the
economical, financial, andtechnical issues are as described below.

2.     Economic and Financial analysis. The economic analysis on HIV/AIDS has
been carried out under the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa
Region (Report No. P7497). It provides the economic justification for the second-
generation MAPS. The report concludes that HIV/AIDS reduces the value o f three
important factors o f economic growth: physical, human, and social capital. The analysis
in the report includes an overall assessment of the impact of HIV/AIDS on economic
development and the cost-benefit o f HIV/AIDS interventions, showing that a reduction in
AIDS-related deaths would increase the growth o f GDP.                  As elsewhere in Africa,
HIV/AIDS inCAR intensifies poverty because infectedpeople have shorter economically
productive lives.     The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be modest.                No
counterpart funds would be required and the project would therefore not impose a
financial burden on the Government. Since 2002, the Government i s supporting salaries
and basic operations of TWCNLS, to coordinate implementation o f the national strategy
against HIV-AIDS.

3.      The economic analysis on malaria has been made in the context of regional and
sub-regional studies. Macroeconomic projections show that the impact o f malaria on
productivity o f workers and on external investments into endemic countries i s major and
has a deleterious impact on growth and poverty reduction strategies. It i s estimated that
malaria reduces GDP growth by approximately 1 full percentage point per year. The
poor are affected most as they have less access to medical services, information and
protective measures, and less opportunity to avoid living or working in malaria-affected
areas. Infact, poor populations are at greatest risk; 58 percent o f the cases occur inthe
poorest 20 percent o f the world's population, and these patients receive the worst care and
have catastrophic economic consequencesfrom their illness2

4.      Ineducation, the Country Status Report on education (RESEN) shows that most
cost effective investments in the context o f CAR are those related to the supply o f
schooling materials (textbooks and pens) and increase in availability o f teachers and o f
their services, as well as reduction o f their in-class training period in favor o f on-the-job
training. The current restructuringbuilds on the main findings o f the RESEN.




2Conqueringthe intolerableburdenof malaria: what's new, what's needed, BremanJG, Alilio MS, MillsA.
Am J 1rop \led 1111. 2003




                                                                                                25

       Table 1:Cost-effectiveness of different options of educational policy - CAR




Impact :- negativeimpact, 0 :no impact, * : significant impact,   **  :highimpact, ***: veryhigh impact;
Cost : +++ : major savings, 0 : no cost, $ : low cost, $$ :high cost, $$$ :very highcost
Source: RESEN-CentralAfrican Republic-Draft February2007.

5.       Technical issues. The actual approaches o f the restructured project follow the
MAP principles and the draft national strategy against HIV/AIDS, which reflects a
consensus among all stakeholders. The technical design o f the project i s in line with the
goals o f the original project:

    a    To stimulate changes in behavior and attitude o f the population by helping
         communities to carry out their own responses, both directly and through social
         and voluntary organizations that have extensive networks inthe country.
    a    To assign highpriority to proven and cost-effective interventions for the groups at
         highest risk o f acquiring and transmitting HIV by improving testing, counseling
         and care and support inorder to create a positive environment.
    a    To make special efforts to reduce new infections inprofessional and other groups
         that have proven to be at increased risk for the infection, while also increasing the
         provision o f information and preventive services to the general population or
         groups that still are at lower risk.
    a    To monitor the progress o f HIV/AIDS and evaluate the effectiveness o f the
         actions taken by the project, including carrying out a baseline survey in order to
         facilitate the tracking o f trends over time.

6.       Because many lessons inHIV/AIDS prevention and care have been learned since
the original project design, the restructured project would incorporate the current
internationally accepted practices for HN/AIDS responses, as set forth in UNAIDS
guidance on HIV/AIDS and inMAP guidelines o f the World Bank's Africa Region, inits
annual implementation plans. In particular, the restructured project would support
strengthening the implementation o f the "three ones" approach. The UNAIDS Thematic
Group would continue to advise CNLS and the Project duringproject implementation.




                                                                                                           26

7.      The activities under the Health and Education components follow a two-pronged
approach.

 (i)    First, the project will take into account the emergency nature o f some o f these
        interventions, in particular in the areas o f supply o f bed nets, teachers on-the-job
        training support, and provision o f learning materials. These activities would be
        managed directly by the Ministries o f Health and Education, respectively; they
        would complement other donors interventions (the Global Fundinparticular), are
        part o f the Government strategy as described in the I-PRSP, and are built on
        sector strategies, ineducation inparticular.
(ii)    Second, the development o f a community-based approach to deliver selected
        basic services will contribute in addressing the issues of governance and social
        cohesion, which have been major victims o f the long conflict inCAR. Due to the
        quasi-abandonment o f local communities by the central Government, the
        population o f CAR-in        rural areas especially-remains     deeply distrustful o f
        Government, its officials, and its ability to deliver basic social services. The
        proposed approach will ensure the involvement o f communities in project
        identification, implementation, and evaluation.      The World Bank has a clear
        comparative advantage in supporting this approach, given its extensive
        involvement in community based and CDD projects in other post-conflict, crisis
        affected LICUS countries (Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Togo for example).            As
        discussed in a recent Bank paper (Conflict and Development in Africa: A
        proposed Regional Approach, August 2006), in countries such as CAR, IDA
        assistance should focus on (a) laying the ground o f improved economic
        governance; (b) delivering early "peace dividends", typically a few pieces o f
        important infrastructure;     and (c) supporting small-scale, community-level
        activities in key areas where such actions can have a tangible impact in a
        relatively short period o f time.

8.      The activities under these two approaches will build on experiences o f other
donors (inthe health sector inparticular) and on activities financed under the LICUS TF
(first round in 2004-2005 to support emergency basic services in the Northern regions,
which was implemented byUNagencies and InternationalNGOs; and second roundwith
an on-going operation in the social sectors which supports community development
activities infour prefectures).




                                                                                            27

                         Annex 6. Summary of legal covenants

Additional Conditions o f Effectiveness:

       the Recipient has established the ImplementationCommittee ina form andwith
       functions, staffing andresources satisfactory to the Association;

       the Recipient has established the FMPUwithinthe ImplementationCommitteein
       a form andwith functions, staffing andresources satisfactory to the Association,
       includinga financial management specialist andaprocurement specialist;

       the Recipient has adopted: (i) amendedProjectImplementationManual; (ii)
                                      the
       the amendedFinancialandAccountingManual; (iii) amended Monitoring and
                                                              the
       EvaluationManua1;and (iv) an amended procurement plan; all inform and
       substance satisfactory to the Association;

       the Recipient has appointed financial management staff with satisfactory
       qualifications inCNLS TS, Ministryof health and Education, to manage Credit
       funds; and that the executionand delivery of the Amended and Restated
       Development Credit Agreement has beenduly authorized or ratified by all
       necessary governmental action.

WithdrawalConditions; WithdrawalPeriod

No withdrawal shall be made:

 (i)   under sub-components 1(a) and2(b), prior to the express satisfaction ofthe
       Associationthat the Recipient shall appointed within the FMPUtwo technical
       assistants specialized inchanneling funds to CSOs and Communities, and

(ii)   under sub-components 2(b) with respect to any drainage o fmarshlands or
       construction o f water supply Sub-projects, prior to the express satisfaction o f the
       Associationthat the RevisedESMP hasbeen adopted inform and substance
       satisfactory to the Association.

Datedcovenants

 (i)  No later than 3 months after the RestructuringEffectiveDate, the Recipient shall
       have appointed within the FMPUtwo technical assistants specialized inthe
       channeling o f funds to CSO and communities, with satisfactory qualifications

(ii)  No later than 3 months after the RestructuringEffectiveDate, the Recipient
       throughthe Ministry o fPlanning shall have adopted the RevisedESMP, inform
       and substance satisfactory to the Association.




                                                                                           28

 ProjectName                    Restructuring o f the MultisectoralHIV/AIDS Project
 Region                         AFRICA
 Sector                         Health (47%); Other social services (33%); Central government
                                 administration(15%); Sub-national government administration
                                 (5%)
 Proiect ID
     "                           PO73525
 Borrower(s)                     CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
 ImplementingAgency              MinistryofPlanning, Economy and InternationalCooperation
                                 Po Box 696, Bangui, Central African Republic
                                Phone number: +(236) 61 38 00 or +(236) 61 38 05
                                 Fax number i s : +(236) 61 73 87
 EnvironmentCategory             [ ] A [XIB [ ] C [ 3 FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
IDate PID PreDared               A ~ r i18.2007
                                        l
 Date of Appraisal             I April 23,2001                                                    I
 Authorization
 Dateof BoardApproval            December 14,2001 (Board date for restructuringMay 24,2007)

1. Country and Sector Background

Despite the country's tense political situation, the Government, with assistance from donors has
made an effort to improve prospects for sustained civil peace and lay the foundations for
economic recovery and poverty alleviation. These actions, combinedwith budget support and
technical assistance from the Bretton Woods institutions allowed a return to an average 4 percent
rate o f growth between 1997 and 1999. This upward trend was interruptedby two exogenous
shocks in2000; first, a sharp rise ininternationaloil prices, then an unexpected interruptionin
the national supply ofpetroleumproducts via the OubanguiRiver. The Government has
expressedits commitment to halt the degradation o fthe country's humanandphysical capital and
to develop the nation's natural potential. To improve access to social services, the Government
intends, among other things, to decentralize decision-makingprocesses andto involve
communities inplanning, managing, and financing o f social sector programs, including health
services. Epidemiological Situationo f HIV/AIDSIncreasingpoverty and disintegration o f social
structures have contributedto an increase inthe incidence of communicable diseases, including
malaria, diarrhea, and HIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS and its relatedopportunistic infectionshave
become a substantial threat to the economic and social development o fthe country. The number
o fpeople infectedwith HIVhas been increasing steadily since the identificationo fthe first cases
o f AIDS inthe mid-eighties. According to 1999UNAIDS estimates 13.84 percent o f the adult
population (15 to 49 years o f age) were infectedwith HIV.Estimates indicate a total number o f
people infectedwith HIV o f 240,000 (with 54 percent women, 42 percent men, and 4 percent
children ages zero to fourteen), a total number o f deaths due to AIDS between 13,000 and
23,000, and the number o f living maternal and double orphans exceeding 70,000. These results
place the CAR as the tenthmost HIV-infected country insub-Saharan Africa. Despitethe efforts
o fthe Government and various donor andother agencies, the epidemic has shown no signs o f
abating. The Government has approached the World Bank for resources inthe context o fthe
MAP'Sfirst phase. The CARis eligible for MAPfundinginthat it satisfiesthe four MAP

eligibility criteria: Satisfactory evidence o f a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS. A Government-
appointed working group i s preparing a multi-sectoral strategy against HIVIAIDS andhas
prepared a situational analysis and a positionpaper.

2. Objectives

The objectives related to the fight against HIV and AIDS have been adjusted in line with the
country's updated National Strategy against HIV-AIDS (2006-2010). The revised objectives
reflect today's understanding that MAPprojects cannot use prevalence rates as impact indicators.
The revised objectives would be to contribute to meeting (a) urgent needs in the fight against
HIV, such as access to prevention, treatment, and impact mitigation services (b) urgent social
needs such as prevention o f malaria, increased access to water supply and improved primary
education.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

New emergencies resultingfrom civil disturbances. The CAR Intermediate Strategy Note (ISN)
proposed addressing emergency social needs, through the use o f some o f the funds remaining
under the HIV/AIDS Project. More than ten years of civil unrest, chronic government policy
mismanagement, and lack or misallocation o f resources have reduced both the coverage and
quality o f essential services, such as primary education, provision o f basic health services, and
access to water and sanitation. In December 2006, an identification mission agreed with the
Government on priority emergency social needs inthe health and education sectors.

HIV-AIDSremains amajor probleminCAR. UNAIDS estimates HIVprevalence inCARat
about 6,2 percent among the population from 15 to 49 years o f age, well above the 3 to 5 percent
rates inneighboring countries. To fight against HIV and AIDS, the Global Fundmobilized
US$29 million for the period 2004-2008, andUNagencies andthe World Bank contributed
US$14 million. Somebilateral agencies and faith-based organizations (FBOs) made significant
contributions; for example, the Germancooperationsupported the provision o f condoms, France
provided technical assistance, andthe RedCross supported a pilot treatment center. Donor
support mainly fundedimproved access to care and treatment for persons livingwith HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA), support to orphans andprevention(mainly provisionof condoms), but only inthe
capital city. More fundingi s now available, but little fundingi s available for prevention, leading
to increasing infectionrates.

4. Description

The project components and subcomponents would reflect the new objectives, addressing
HIV/AIDS, health and education emergency needs. The restructured project would include a
component for each sector, plus a component for a small financial management and procurement
unit.Eachcomponent would include subcomponents for specific activities.

Component 1:Support to the National Program against HIV-AIDS

Subcomponent 1 (a): Civil society responses against HIV/AIDS: The restructured project would
focus on supporting 50 youth organizations, a federation o f associations o f PLWHA, and 30
PLWHA associations.

Subcomponent 1 (b): Ministry of Health responses against HIPZAIDS. The restructured project
would support Ministry o f Health activities by enhancing access to prevention, care, and
treatment regarding HIV/AIDS. Project funding for the programs o f the Ministry o f Health
would supplement the financing providedby the Global Fund and others, focusing ingeographic
areas not servedby other donors.

Subcomponent 1 (c): Other public-sector responses against HIV/AIDS. The restructuredproject
would follow the initial objectives o f supporting public-sector responses inthe following priority
public sectors: Education, Defense, Social, and Public Services.

Subcomponent 1(d) Coordination, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The
project would finance the operations o f the CNLS Technical Secretariat and the decentralized
coordinatingcommittees at the prefecture level. The project would also support three studies for
the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) o f the National Programagainst HIV/AIDS.

Component2: Support to emergencyHealthneeds

Component 2 (a): Malaria prevention and improved access to emergency health services. This
subcomponent would mainly procure and distribute: (i)about 300,000 insecticide-treated
mosquito nets (ITMN) for pregnant women and children under age five and (ii)         equipment for
emergency health services. It would complement Global Fund support, following WHO
guidelines.

Subcomponent 2 (b): Small emergency community subprojects. The project would finance small
subprojects prepared with communities and civil-society organizations, addressing emergency
health needs, such as small rural water supply systems and drainage o f marshlands to reduce
reproduction and spreading o f mosquitoes. This subcomponent would support the establishment
o f an agency to channel funds to civil-society organizations (CSO) and community initiatives. It
would also support engineers from "Direction Generale de 1'Hydraulique" (DGH) from Ministry
of Energy, Mining and Hydraulic, to provide the technical assistance to design and implement
the civil works involved.

Subcomponent 2 (c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E. The project would support limited
financing to assist the Ministry o f Healthto supervise, monitor, and evaluate the above activities.

Component3: Supportto emergencyEducationneeds

Subcomponent 3 (a): Training of primary schools teachers. The project would improve the
quality o f teaching at the primary level and respond to urgent needs o f providing teaching
services, by focusing on teachers' training and improving the student to teacher ratio.

Sub-component 3 (b): Access to educational materials in primary schools.        The project would
provide textbooks and other educational materialinprimary schools.

Subcomponent3 (c): Coordination, supervision, and M&E. The project would support limited
financing to assist the Ministry o f Education to supervise, monitor, and evaluate the above
activities.

Component 4: Supportto a FinancialManagementandProcurementUnit

Theprojectwould support a small FinancialManagement andProcurement Unit, to channel
funds to the three implementingagencies. The unitwould include an experienced financial
management specialist and an experienced procurement specialist, bothinternationallyhired.

5. Financing

Source:                                                                              ($mJ
BORROWERRECIPIENT                                                                      0.5
InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA)                                             17
                                                                         Total        17.5

6. Implementation

Implementationarrangements would reflect the involvement o f concerned sectors, that is, CNLS
(on HIV/AIDS related issues), Health, Education and Ministryo f Mining, Energy and Hydraulic
(on water supply and drainage). To provide effective support to these sectors, the government
would take, prior to the effectiveness o f the restructuring o f the Project, an inter-ministerial
decision to create (a) an "Implementation Committee for IDA Credit 3485-CA" (ICIC) as a
formal inter-ministerial committee to be chaired by a representative from the Ministry o f
Planning, and (b) a financial management and procurement unit (FMPU) attached to this
committee, described below. The members o f this Implementation Committee would be a
representative o f Ministry o f Planning (Chair), a senior officer from each Ministryinvolved in
implementation o f project activities and from CNLS, and one officer from the Ministry o f
Finance. The Implementation Committee would supervise the Financial Management and
Procurement Unit (FMPU); it also would approve annual work plans and budgets, quarterly
reports, and M&E reports o f the project. The members o f the Committee would take part in
regular supervision missions. The Implementation Committee for IDA Credit (ICIC) would co-
sign withdrawal requests with the project financial officer.

7. Sustainability

Giventhe very low probabilitythat anHIV/AIDSvaccine would be developed inthe near future
to stop the devastating spread o f HIVIAIDSinthe CAR, the Government i s dedicated to
mobilize additional funding requiredfor addressing the HIV/AIDScrisis over the next 10to 15
years. A conscious effort has beenmade to design the project so that the direct costs for the
Government are low andthat the project can be usedas a leverage to mobilize additional
resources. It i s nevertheless important to recognize the existence o frisk factors that may affect
sustainability. Inparticular, despite the flexible design allowing the project to adjust to various
levels o f insecurity &e., multi-yearperformance-based contracts for annual action plans o f CSOs

andNGOs, reliance on CSOs,NGOs, religious organizations, traditional healers, communities,
and other stakeholders who are likelyto ensure continuity o f project activities), high levels o f
political uncertainty, possible delays inpayments o f counterpart funds or o f staff salaries could
still disrupt the continuity required for sustainability. Aside from these areas o f concern, the
project i s expected to be sustainable because it is built on strong government ownership
involving all key ministries, and on broadpartnership at all levels o f the project cycle. It would
scale up existing activities andprogressivelymainstream HN/AIDS operations into major
government ministries and civil society. The focus on scaling up through CSOs i s expected to
produce early successes that would help generate sustained support andprovide useful lessons
for replication.

8. LessonsLearnedfrom PastOperations in the Country/Sector

Lessons learned from past operations inthe country/sector Project design reflects key lessons
learned from international experience with HIV/ADS, from HIV prevention and control efforts
inthe CARandother countries inAfrica, andfromthe implementationofpreviousBank-
financed projects inthe CAR.Key lessons learned from the global experience highlightthe
importance o f the following elements: Although the process is difficult, scalingup from several
small efforts to nationalcoverage is essential. Because implementationcapacity, particularly in
the field, is weak, project components must involve a substantial capacity buildingefforts.
Hence, an important part o fproject support would go to capacity building. To ensure a multi-
sectoral approach to prevention and care, programs must take specific measures (e.g. mobilize
CSOs,empower communities to design andimplement their own responsesto the epidemic) to
involve non-health sectors. Because HIV infectioni s associatedto other diseases, such as STIs
and tuberculosis, it i s essential for HIV/AIDSprograms to also prevent andtreat these associated
diseases. To be effective, interventions must be made on a sufficiently large and sustainable
scale, andinterventions aimed at the general population should be combinedwith interventions
targeted to groups at an increased risk o f HIV infection. Mucho f the work can be contracted out
to a variety o f organizations, includingpublic agencies andNGOs. Inthe CAR, the project plans
to allocate most o f its resources to CSOs and communities. To improvepolicies and sustain
awareness, it i s important to effectively monitor the epidemic andrisk behaviors and to
disseminate findings. Giventhat several other agencies are already involved inthe fight against
HIV/ADS inthe CAR,IDA-financedactivities would needto becomplementary to these efforts
and to those undertaken by the Government. Another lesson that was incorporated inproject
design was one learned from previous IDA-financedprojects, which highlighted the necessity to
incorporate additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the Bank'sprocurement
guidelines.

9. Safeguard Policies (includingpublic consultation)

SafeguardPoliciesTriggered                           Yes   No
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP4.01)                  X
NaturalHabitats(OP/BP4.04)                           X
Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                        X
Pest Management(OP 4.09)                             X
PhysicalCulturalResources(OP/BP4.11)                       X
IndigenousPeoples(OP/BP4.10)                               X
InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                        X
Safety of Dams(OP/BP4.37)                                  X
Proiects on InternationalWaterwavs (OP/BP 7.50)            X


10. Contactpoint

Contacts:
Jean J. Delion
Title: Senior SocialDevelopment Specialist
Tel: (202) 473-5010
Email:Jdelion@worldbank.org

Giuseppe Zampaglione
Title: Senior OperationsOfficer
Tel: (202) 473-0955
Email: Gzampaglione@worldbank.org

11. For moreinformationcontact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 HStreet, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Email:pic@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop

                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDSDATASHEET
                                 APPRAISAL STAGE

I.BasicInformation
Datepreparedhpdated: 04/26/2007                                      Report No.: AC2906




Estimated Appraisal Date: April 23, 2001      Estimated Board Date: December 14, 2001
Managing Unit: AFTS3                          LendingInstrument: Adaptable Program
                                              Loan




2. ProjectObjectives
The Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project i s beingrestructured.
 The revised objectives would be to contribute (i) to emergency HIV-AIDS needs such
as prevention & treatment, (ii)to prevention o f malaria and access to water supply and
(iii) toprimaryeducation.
    access

3. ProjectDescription
Changes inProject Development Objectives (PDO). The PDO related to the fight against
HIV-AIDS have been adjustedin line with the country?s updated National Strategy
against HIV-AIDS (2006-2010). The revised PDOreflect today?s understanding that
MAP projects cannot use prevalencerates as impact indicators. The revised PDOwould
be to contribute to (i) needs inthe fight against HIV-AIDS such as access to tests
                      urgent
and treatment (ii)urgent social needs such as prevention o f malaria, increased access to
water supply and improvedprimary education.

 Changes inproject components and sub-components. The project components and sub-
components would reflect the new objectives, addressing H I V - A D S , health and
education emergency needs. The restructuredproject would include a component for

eachsector, plus a component for a small financial management andprocurement unit.
Each component would include sub-components for specific activities. (Detailed
changes inthe project design are inAnnex 2.)

  Component 1: Support to the NationalProgram against HN-AIDS

  Subcomponent 1(a): Civil society responses against HIV/AIDS: The restructured
project would focus on supporting 50 youth organizations, a federation of associations o f
people living with HN/AIDS (PLWHA) and 30 PLWHA associations.
  Subcomponent 1(b): Ministry o fHealth responses against HIV-AIDS.The restructured
project would support Ministry o f Health activities by enhancing access to prevention,
care andtreatment regarding HIV/ALDS. Project fhnding for the programs o f the
Ministry of Healthwould supplement the financing provided by the Global Fundand
others, focusing ingeographic areas not servedby other donors.
  Subcomponent 1(c): Other public-sector responses against HIV-AIDS.The restructured
project would follow the initial objectives o f supportingpublic sector responses inthe
following priority public sectors: Education, Defense, Social and Public Services.
  Subcomponent 1(d) Coordination, supervision, M&E. The project would finance the
operations o f the CNLS Technical Secretariat and the decentralized coordinating
committees at the prefecture level. The project would also support three studies for the
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) o f the National Program against HIV/AIDS.

  Component 2: Support to emergency Healthneeds

  Component 2 (a): Malaria prevention and improved access to emergency health
services
  This subcomponent would mainly procure and distribute: (i) 300,000 insecticide-
                                                                about
treated mosquito nets (ITMN) for pregnant women and children under age five and (ii)
equipment for emergency healthservices. Itwould complement Global Fundsupport,
following WHO guidelines.
  Subcomponent 2 (b): Small emergency health subprojects. The project would finance
small subprojects prepared with communities and civil-society organizations, addressing
emergency healthneeds, such as small rural water supply systems and drainage o f
marshlands to reduce reproduction and spreading o f mosquitoes. This subcomponent
would support the establishment of an agency to channel funds to civil-society
organizations (CSO) and community initiatives.
  Subcomponent 2 (c): coordination, supervision, M&E. The project would support
limited financing to assist the Ministryo f Health to supervise, monitor, and evaluate the
above activities.

  Component 3: Support to emergency Educationneeds

  Sub-component 3 (a): Training o f primary schools teachers. The project would
improve the quality o f teaching at the primary level and respond to urgent needs o f
providing teaching services, by focusing on teachers? training and improvingthe student
to teacher ratio.

  Sub-component 3 (b): Access to educational materials inprimary schools. The project
wouldprovidetextbooks and other educational material inprimary schools.
  Subcomponent3 (c): Coordination, supervision, M&E. The project would support
limited financing to assist Ministry o f Educationto supervise, monitor and evaluate the
above activities.

  Component 4: Support to a financial management and procurement Unit
  The projectwould support a smallFinancialManagement andProcurement Unit,to
channel funds to the three implementing agencies. The unit would include an experienced
financial management specialist and an experienced procurement specialist, both
internationallyhired.

4. ProjectLocationand salientphysicalcharacteristicsrelevantto the safeguard
analysis
Country-wide inareas not already served. Subcomponent 2(b) would include small rural
water supply systems and drainage o f marshlands to reduce reproduction and spreading
o f mosquitoes.

5. Environmentaland Social SafeguardsSpecialists
    MrAmadouKonare (AFTS1)

6. SafeguardPoliciesTripgered                                 Yes          N o
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP 4.01)                           X
Natural Habitats(OP/BP4.04)                                    X
Forests(OP/BP4.36)                                                         X
                                                          ~-   X
PhysicalCulturalResources(OP/BP 4.11)                                      X
IndigenousPeoples(OP/BP4.10)                                               X
InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP4.12)                                         X
Safety of Dams(OP/BP 4.37)                                                 X
Projectson InternationalWaterways (OP/BP 7.50)                             X
ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP 7.60)                                       X

11. Key SafeguardPolicyIssues and Their Management
A. Sunimary of Key Safeguard Issues
1.Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associatedwith the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
The restructuring would not change the environmentalcategory o f the project. The
effects and mitigationmeasures would be the following:

  - OnHIV/AIDS, the project would review the effectiveness o f the existing Medical
Waste MitigationPlan (MWMP), adjust it to the present context and re-disclose the final
plan, and would fund it with a provision o f US$200,000. The MWMP would also serve
the health sector at large.

 - Inthe health sector, under component 2, subcomponent bysmall projects would
involve the drainage of small marshlands and rural water supplies at the community level.
These small projects would not involve land acquisition or resettlement. These small
projects would trigger OP 4.01 and OP 4.04. Due to the lack o f detailed information on
the number, scale and environmental characteristics o f sub-projects, at this time, the
Ministry o f Health will prepare an Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF)acceptable to the Bank, withprocedures, guidelines and institutional
arrangements for screening, review, approval, implementation and monitoring sub-
project specific environmental measures. Before the start o f any drainage o f marshlands
or construction o f water supply sub-projects, the Borrower will prepare specific sub-
projects Environmental Management Plan. The ESMP would discuss issues regarding
OP.4.37 ifit i s determined that the project will engage indam construction. Inthe
context o f the EMP, the project would consult broadly project stakeholders on issues
related to OP 4.07, inparticular, the drainage o fmarshlands and small water supply
activities, and implement mitigationmeasures as required. The ESMP would designate
the authority that would approve each specific ESMP. The use o f insecticide-treated bed
nets would comply with the requirements o f OP 4.09. Under the ESMP, MOHwould
provide the list o f pesticides involvedintreatment of bednets. Under approval o f the
ESMP, the MOHwould confirm that it complies with WHO guidelines (class 3
pesticides) and would control strict adherence to it duringproject implementation. Under
these conditions, the use of impregnated bednets and class I11insecticide for malaria
would trigger OP4.09 onpest management, but would not require apest management
plan, inaccordance with 4.01 Annex C.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or longterm impacts due to anticipated future
activities inthe project area:
The Project environmental category remains unchanged, as Byeven with the revision o f
the existing MWMP and preparation o f an ESMF, as it is expected that the impacts would
be minimal, site-specific and manageable to an accepted level.. The financing agreement
would plan for submission and approval o f a revised MWMP and ESMF within three
months after signing of the revised credit agreement. Approval o f the ESMF would be a
condition for disbursement for the concerned small projects under sub-component 2(a).
The restructuring would not involve exception to the Bank?s environmental policies.

3. Describe any project alternatives (ifrelevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
The Borrower did not envisage alternatives: water supply i s a priority inrural areas. The
Borrower i s used to address proliferation o f mosquitoes by drainage o f marshlands as it is
a long-term sustainable option.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment o fborrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.

CAR is a post-conflict country, the Bank has limited recent experience. Still, Ministry o f
Environment i s willing to apply the planned measures. It will prepare a detailed ESMP
with assistance from an international consultant inJune 2007.

5. Identifythe key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis onpotentially affected people.

Ministry o f Planning and Ministryo f Environment plan to organize areview o f the
proposedESMFwith Ministry o f Health, Ministry o f Energy, Mining and Hydraulic,
private firms and NGOsinvolved inthe field o f the envisaged project activities.


B. Disclosure Requirements Date
EnvironmentalAssessment/Audit/ManagementPlan/Other:
   Date of receipt by the Bank                                     10/31/2007
   Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 11/15/2007
   Date of submission to InfoShop                                  11/20/2007
   For category A projects, date o f distributingthe Executive
   Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Pest ManagementProcess:
   Date of receipt by the Bank                                     10/31/2007
   Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 11/15/2007
   Date of submission to InfoShop                                  11/20/2007
* Ifthe projecttriggers the PestManagementand/or PhysicalCulturalResources,
the respectiveissues are to be addressedand disclosedas part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/orEMP.
Ifin-countrydisclosureof any ofthe abovedocumentsis notexpected, please
explainwhy:




C. Conipliaizce Moizitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to befilled in when the
ISDS isfiiialized by theproject decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP4.01 EnvironmentAssessment
                  -
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?               Yes
Ifyes, then didthe RegionalEnvironment Unitor SectorManager (SM)                No
review and approve the EAreport?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated inthe            Yes
credit/loan?
OP/BP4.04 Natural Habitats
               -
Would the project result inany significant conversion or degradation o f        N o
critical natural habitats?
Iftheprojectwouldresultinsignificant conversionor degradation ofother           No
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures
acceptable to the Bank?
OP4.09 PestManagement
          -
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?                      Yes
I s a separate PMP required?                                                    N o

  Ifyes, hasthePMPbeenreviewed andapprovedby asafeguards specialist or N/A
  SM? Are PMPrequirements included inproject design? Ifyes, does the
  project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
  The World BankPolicyon Disclosureof Information
  Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's     N o
  Infoshop?
  Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country ina public place in a      N o
  form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
  groups and local NGOs?
  All SafeguardPolicies
  Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities   Yes
  been prepared for the implementation o f measures related to safeguard
  policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included inthe project   Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system o f the project include the         Yes
  monitoring o f safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the            Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected inthe project legal
  documents?


  D.Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                              Name                        Date
Co-Task Team Leaders:              Messrs. Jean J. Delion & Giuseppe            0411912007
                                   Zampaglione
Environmental Specialist:          MrAmadouKonare                               0411912007
Social Development Specialist
Additional Environmental andor
Social DevelopmentSpecialist(s):




                                   MrFrancoisG. LeGall

