FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAt -BANK FOR RaeONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1470-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
AND THE
TURKISH COAL ENTERPRISES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE
ELBISTAN LIGNITE MINE AND POWER PROJECT
June 17, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit                  Turkish Lira  (TL)
US$1                   =       TL  13.50
TL 1                   =       US$ 0.074
TL 1,000               =       US$ 74
TL 1,000,000           =       US$ 74,000
Turkish Fiscal Year   March 1 to February 28



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRICTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE TURK:SH ELECTRICITY
AUTHiORITY AND THE TURKISHI COAL ENTERPRISES
FOR THE ELBISTAN LIGNITE MINE AND POWER PROJECT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Turkish Electticity Authority (TEK) and the Turkish Coal Authority (TKI)
for the equivalent of US$148.0 million to help finance a project for (a) the
development of an open-cast lignite mine near the village of Elbistan in east-
central Turkey and (b) the construction of an adjacent lignite-burning 1200
megawatt thermal power station and associated transmission lines.    The loan
would have a term of 25 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7-1/4 percent per annum. Approximately $123 million of the loan would be
allocated to TEK to help finance the power plant and approximately $25 million
would be allocated to TKI to help finance the mine.   The loan would be coordi-
nated witlh co-financing from the European Investment Bank (EIB) and bilateral
lenders. (See para. 34 on project financing).
PART I THE ECONOMY
2.        A report (316a-TU) entitled "The Economic Development of Turkey"
dated April 22, 1974 was distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Following a decade of stability in Turkey, student disturbances and
unrest among workers appeared in 1970, accompanied by party disagreements, and
in March 1971 the armed forces obtained the resignation of the Government and
called for the formation of an "above-party" and reformist Government. There
followed a succession of short-term Governments. In early 1973 a new President
of the Republic was elected by the Parliament. Subsequently, martial law was
ended, and in October parliamentary elections were held. In a shift to the
left of center, the Republican People's Party won a plurality and formed a
coalition government in January 1974 with the National Salvation Party. The
new Government's program stresses reconciliation of the political differences
of the recent past, increased equity, social justice, and adherence to moral
values, control of national resources, broader popular participation in eco-
nomic activity, and improved planning and efficiency. Its specifics include
a general amnesty, tax reform aimed at greater progressivity, and measures
to promote cooperatives and a more dynamic capital market. While retaining
most of the essential objectives of the Third Plan, the program places in-
creased emphasis on the role of the public sector, especially in industry.
4.        Growth in gross national product in the last decade was high and
continuous, averaging about 6.9 percent-per year in the period 1962-72, with
gross investment increasing as a share of GNP from 15 percent to 20 percent
and gross national savings from 11 percent to 18 percent. Since 1970, how-
ever, the shares of investment and gross national savings have decreased slightly.



-2-
5.        The main growth sectors in the last decade were industry, power,
transDort and construction. This reflected the development strategy during
t;-e first and second five-year plans (1962-72), which gave highest priority
to industrialization. Industrial output grew by about 10 percent per annum,
witih textiles, machinery and equipment, steel and chemicals providing the main
impetus. This rapid growth, mainly to meet domestic demand and replace im-
ports, was largely insulated from foreign competition. Other rapidly growing
sectors were trade and financial services. Agricultural production had a
trend growth rate of about 3.5 percent per annum, with fluctuations from year
to year depending on weather conditions. The share of industry in GDP rose
from 17 percent in 1962 to 23 percent in 1972 and that of agriculture dropped
from 39 percent to 28 percent. Growth in 1971-72 was above average. In 1971,
GNP increased by 10 percent in real terms, with value added in agriculture
increasing by more than 11 percent, thanks largely to an excellent harvest,
a sharp rise in workers' remittances and continued industrial growth. In 1972,
GNP intreased by 7.7 percent, with value added in agriculture not increasing
over thie 1971 level, but with a 12 percent growth in industry, fast growth in
transport, construction and trade and another sharp rise in workers' remittances.
Growth in 1973 is estimated at about 6.5 percent.    Preliminary estimates for
1973 indicate that GDP increased by about 6.4 percent in spite of a severe
drought which led to an 8 percent decrease in agricultural value added.
6.        The balance of payments situation was characterized in 1967-70 by
increasing trade deficits, and a strict system of import controls which led to
shortages of essential imports and, consequently, to under-utilization of pro-
duction capacity. The overvalued official exchange rate was changed in August
1970 from TL 9 to TL 15 per US$ and revised to TL 14 in December 1971. This,
together with associated stabilization measures, rising world demand and prices
and a rapid rise in workers' remittances (from $140 million in 1969 to $740
million in 1972) helped to improve the situation dramatically. Commodity ex-
ports increased by about 23 percent per annum in 1971 and 1972, with agricul-
tural exports (mainly cotton, tobacco, hazelnuts, raisins and fruits and vege-
tables) increasing by about 22 percent per annum and industrial exports by an
unprecedented 55 percent (mainly in food and beverages, textiles, hides and
leather products and petroleum products). The improved foreign exchange po-
sition also led to a high import growth of 28 percent per annum, mainly in
investment goods and raw materials (machinery and equipment, transport, steel
and other metals, chemicals and fertilizers). Tourism receipts, although
still relatively small, doubled between 1970 and 1972. The improvement in
the balance of payments continued into 1973, with exports and imports of goods
increasing by 49 percent and 34 percent respectively over 1972. Workers' re-
mittances reached an estimated $1.1 billion. The overall result was a con-
tinuing increase in gross official foreign exchange reserves, which stood at
$2.1 billion at the end of 1973. Net foreign assets, which had been negative
in 1966-68, rose to about $1 billion, i.e. 6 months of imports. One of the
contributory factors to the rising foreign exchange reserves was the inflow
of short-term capital (with convertible lira accounts rising from $70 million
at the end of 1970 to a peak of $480 million in April 1973) which was subse-
quently restricted by the Government. In May 1974, the lira was revalued
vis-a-vis the dollar to TL 13.5 per US$ while its previous parity vis-a-vis



-3-
other currencies was maintained. This action was taken to adjust to previous
parity changes made vis-a-vis the dollar by Turkey's major trading partners.
7.        The budgetary situation it the last decade was dominated by the
relatively rapid growth of public expenditures. Although tax revenues grew
rapidly, their share in GNP rising from 12.9 percent in 1962 to 17.9 percent
in 1972, the increase was more than offset b7 the rise in current expenditures
and transfers. The overall budget deficit ix.creased and was particularly large
in 1971 when the full impact on current experditures of overdue public salary
increases was felt. The Treasury had growing recourse to the Central Bank for
short-term advances and to other short-term borrowing. The difficulties facing
public mobilization of resources led to public investment expenditures falling
short of targets, and to an actual decline in public fixed investment in real
terms in 1971. In 1972 and 1973, Central Bank financing of the Treasury was
reduced considerably as a result of a strict control of current expenditures
and a sharp increase in the sale of Government bonds to TL 4 billion (0.8 bil-
lion in 1971). Public investment also recovered, increasing by 19 percent in
1972.
8.        The overall financial results of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs)
have been consistently poor, but there are sharp differences among them, with
railways and coal being the major losers and manufacturing showing improving
profits. The SEEs now account for about 20 percent of the fixed investment
in the economy and about 10 percent of value-added. However, since 1969 the
average rate of return on investment for the 28 largest producing SEEs has
been less than 3 percent despite subsidized interest rates averaging about
4 percent. Low profits have necessitated increasing budgetary transfers to
meet current and investment needs; such transfers amounted to TL 3.5 billion
in 1971 and over TL 6 billion in 1972. Reform of the SEEs - in organization,
management, executive and labor skills, and pricing policies - is especially
important to prepare Turkish industry for competition that will arise from
the EEC. Prices of SEE products were raised in 1971 and again in early 1974
to improve their financial situation. Measures agreed upon in connection with
Loan 893-TU have begun to lead to improvement in the financial situation of
the railways; and the Antalya Forest Ultilization loan (957-TU) provides for
establishment of the Antalya mill on a sound commercial basis.
9.        Inflationary pressures have appeared in the economy in recent years,
as expenditures, fueled by rapid monetary expansion, grew more rapidly than
available resources. The GNP price deflator increased by about 6 percent per
annum during 1967-70, and accelerated to 18 percent and 14 percent in 1971 and
1972 respectively. Excess demand was created in this period by rapidly rising
workers' remittances and convertible lira accounts; by substantial deficit
financing by the public sector which, however, was strictly checked in 1972
and 1973; and by rising private investment demand. Prices of imported goods
rose as a result of the 1970 devaluation, the subsequent depreciation of the
lira, and rising world export prices; and prices of SEEs products were raised
in 7971. The rate of inflation increased to about 20 percent in 1973 as the
same pressures persisted and intensified. In these circumstances, effective
demand management should be a major concern of economic policy. Improved mobi-
lization of resources by the public sector will be needed to finance growing



-4-
public investments. It will be essential to develop the capital market to
supplement existing sources of long-term domitstic borrowing. Proposals for
a capital market bill are now being considercd. In addition, revisions in
the interest rate structure to ensure a reasonable real rate of return are
needed to encourage private savings. Further liberalization of imports to
improve the competitiveness of domestic industry and reduce the inflationary
growth of foreign exchange reserves is also desirable.
10.       Development strategy has emphasized the growth of output and labor
productivity rather than employment. As a result, the labor surplus, including
estimates of labor surplus in agriculture, rose from about 1 million in 1962
to 1.6 million in 1972, i.e. about 11 percent of the labor force. Emigration
has so far greatly eased the pressure on employment. Between 1965 and 1972,
net emigration amounted to about 400,000 and was expected to be about 70,000
per year during the Third Plan period (1973-77). The Third Plan continues
the emphasis on investment in capital-intensive industries and projects a
growth in non-agricultural labor surplus by another 300,000 by 1977. With
the added effect of a slowdown in Europe on employment by Turkish workers
(paragraph 14), unemployment should be a major concern of economic policy.
Speedy implementation of land reform and integrated rural development pro-
grams would help to dampen the migration from rural to urban areas. In addi-
tion, labor intensive methods need special emphasis in the choice of projects.
However, even with these measures and faster growth than planned in construc-
tion and services, urban unemployment is likely to remain a serious problem.
11.       The prospects for continued high economic growth are good.    The Third
Plan constitutes the first phase of a long-term strategy for the period 1973-95,
the ultimate objective of which is to raise Turkish standards of living to
those of Italy in 1970 through rapid industrialization and decreasing depend-
ence on external resources. The Third Plan targets are an 8 percent GDP growth
rate, a 10.7 percent fixed investment growth rate, a marginal savings ratio of
38 percent on national savings (compared with about 18 percent in the Second
Plan), commodity imports and exports growing at 9.4 percent and 7.1 percent
respectively and a decline in gross inflows of official external assistance
to $130 million in 1977 (compared with over $300 million in 1972). Workers'
remittances are estimated in the Plan at $600 million at constant 1971 prices
in 1977.
12.       A detailed analysis of these targets is presented in the basic
economic report. The general conclusion is that, though the prospects for
a growth rate of 7 percent are good, the Plan projections seem to underes-
timate the difficulty of raising the savings level and balancing the external
accounts at a reduced level of external assistance.
13.       The Plan anticipates that two-thirds of the increase in national
savings will come from the public sector through large increases in both tax
revenues and in surpluses of the State Economic Enterprises (SEE's). Given
the past performance of SEEs and delays in implementing a general reform,
the expected rapid growth in their surpluses does not appear feasible. It
will also be difficult to raise tax revenues to the extent implied by the
Plan, but there is scope for a smaller increase if vigorous-policies are



-5-
pursued, e.g., further improvements in tax administration and effective col-
lection now under way, widening the tax net to cover agricultural incomes,
increases in the rates of property taxation, introduction of a value-added
tax and liberalization of imports to offset tax losses due to import substitu-
tion and reductions of custom duties under the EEC agreement. The problem of
domestic resource mobilization by the public sector is therefore likely to
remain a constraint in the growth of public investment, and, apart from im-
proved SEE performance, higher external borrowing and policies to increase
long-term domestic borrowing from the private sector would be necessary to
achieve the ambitious investment targets.
14.       On the external side, the Plan projections have been overtaken by
events, and commodity imports and exports in 1973 are likely to have been at
about the level projected for 1977. Workers' remittances in 1972 were already
higher than the 1977 target. However, their future was made uncertain by the
decision by the Federal German Government in November to temporarily prohibit
further entry of foreign workers from non-EEC countries because of the energy
crisis. It remains to be seen what course this policy will take over the
longer run. The emphasis on capital intensive industrial development and the
rise in the prices of imported fuel and raw materials will require a more rapid
growth rate, especially since the import regime is likely to be more liberal
than in the past. Exports, particularly of industrial commodities, should
continue to show good growth unless inflation continues at high rates, which
would erode the competitive advantage gained as a result of the 1970 devalua-
tion and the subsequent depreciation of the lira vis-a-vis Turkey's main trad-
ing partners in Europe. Gross official external inflows on the order of $500
million a year may be required.
15.       At the end of 1972, total external debt outstanding and disbursed
was $2.5 billion, of which all but 3 percent is public or publicly guaranteed.
The share of the Bank Group in total debt oustanding was 8.3 percent in 1972
and is expected to rise. The average terms of new credits have been hardening
in recent years and this trend is expected to continue. Of the total gross
official external assistance of about $380 million in 1972, the Consortium
members provided an estimated $220 million. Of this about $58 million came
from the United States, $44 million from the European Monetary Agreement (EMA)
and $22 million from the United Kingdom. The USSR disbursed $113 million.
As a result of increased remittances and other foreign exchange earnings, and
successive debt reschedulings and other arrangements for debt relief, the debt
service ratio fell considerably from 24 percent in 1964 to 10.2 percent in
1972 and an estimated 7.6 percent in 1973 and is likely to remain at about this
latter level in the medium term. However, in view of the uncertainties sur-
rounding remittances and oil prices, Turkey should continue to exercise great
care in its external debt management, including restraint in its resort to
suppliers' credit financing.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
16.       During the lengthy period of chronic balance of payments difficul-
ties before the 1970 stabilization program and devaluation of the Turkish lira,
Bank lending was only intermittent. Since then, rapid improvement in the
balance of payments and in creditworthiness has made possible a large increase
and continuity in Bank/IDA lending, which in FY71, FY72 and FY73 amounted to
$114 million, $173.3 million, and $175 million respectively. In these three
years sixteen lending operations were carried out, of which five were in agri-
culture, four in industry (including DFCs), three in power and the rest in
urban development, transportation, and vocational education. Agriculture
accounted for 30 percent of the funds lent, and industry and DFCs, for nearly
40 percent. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of April 30, 1974, and notes on the execution of on-
going projects. Implementation of projects in the private sector has been
satisfactory; on the other hand, projects in the public sector - especially
those brea,;ing new ground in agriculture - have been seriously affected by
political instability and resulting administrative problems, and disbursements
have been much slower than expected. A comprehensive review of the problems
besetting these projects has been started with the new Government.
17.       In view of the sustained improvement in the balance of payments
situation, no further IDA lending is contemplated. Bank lending is being
increasingly directed to support of Turkish efforts to improve: (a) lagging
public sector saving through financial and management reform of the SEEs;
(b) distribution of income and living standards in the economy entering its
second decade of roughly 7 percent yearly growth, through more attention to
employment in investment projects, more concerted rural development efforts,
and better urban planning; and (c) long-term capacity to earn foreign exchange,
through diversification, especially promotion of industrial exports and tour-
ism. Bank lending for the Turkish Industrial Development Bank (TSKB) and
Fruit and Vegetables emphasizes exports; Bank tourism project identifica-
tion and preparation missions have recently visited Turkey.
18.       While the focus of Bank lending is on supporting the institutional
and structural changes noted above, continuation of recent levels of lending
is also important in view of the increase in projected capital import require-
ments. As discussed in Part I, Turkey's Third Plan goals of an 8 percent
growth rate and increasing competitiveness with the EEC in preparation for
eventual full membership require further import liberalization and higher
external borrowing in the near term. Under contemplated lending, the shares
of IBRD/IDA in total debt outstanding and in total debt service are likely
to remain under 20 percent and 25 percent respectively through the 1970's.
19.       In supporting the broad objectives of improved SEE performance,
better distribution of welfare, and diversification of external earning cap-
acity outlined in paragraph 17 above, it is planned to continue concentrating
the bulk of Bank lending (a) in industry (including mining and DFCs), where
financial and management strengthening of SEEs is the key task, and (b) in
agriculture, where rural development, employment, and institution building



are the main focus. This core of the program will be supplemented by repeater
loans for railways and selected loans for power (which also center on financial
reform of state enterprises), follow-up lending for urban development in
Istanbul a:ad possibly in Izmir in support of the second objective, and by
lending in tourism. Bank lending has thus far been geographically focused
mainly in the Istanbul region, with eœlphasis on urban development and indus-
trial finance, and in the Cukurova region around Adana on the southern coast,
with enphasis orn power, irrigation and fruit and vegetables. This pattern is
likely to broaden in pursuit of the second objective, with wider lending in
the Anatolian plateau and eastern Turkey in response to the Government's
efforts to widen the geographic base of development, discourage too rapid
urban migration, and improve the distribution of income. Continued selec-
tive lending to the TSKB is also contemplated, with emphasis being placed
increasingly on encouraging TSKB to broaden its private sources of capital
and to step up its efforts to finance private investment in the poorer re-
gions of Turkey.
20.       With regard to public sector reforms, past Bank lending for power
over the course of several years helped bring about a comprehensve reorganiza-
tion of the power sector including the creation of the Turkish Electricity
Authority (TEK).   The proposed Bank loan for the Elbistan project is intended
to continue support for TEK's long-term reform objectives and to establish a
working relationship with TKI in the coal mining sector. The Antalya Forest
Utilization Project (957-TU) aims to strengthen the State Pulp and Paper Enter-
prise (SEKA) in its overall investiment planning as well as to promote effective
financial management in the proposed new mill subsidiary at Antalya. A pro-
posed industrial credit loan to the State Investment Bank (DYB), the Govern-
ment's main lending institution for lending to public sector industrial enter-
prises, would aim to strengthen DYB's role in financing small and medium sized
SEE industrial projects. The Bank is also considering a loan to a public sec-
tor project for iron ore mine expansion and pelletizing at Divrigi in east
central Turkey, which will be complementary to the Erdemir Steel Expansion
(817-TU) and to modernization of the RailwTays (893-TU), which are heavily
engaged in ore traffic. Divrigi and Elbistan also represent greater geographic
dispersion into lower income regions.
21.       The Bank's main effort in support of the distribution objective is
the twin strategy of promoting rural alternatives to urban migration and im-
proving urban development. As a beginning in rural development, the Bank
approved a credit in FY72 for the Second Livestock Project, which focuses on
fodder cropping and breeding, raising and fattening of animals in Eastern and
Central Anatolia. For FY75 the Government is preparing an integrated Rural
Development Project in rainfed areas of central Turkey. The Forestry part
of the Antalya Forest Utilization Project should also make a significant
contribution to rural emnployment through expanded cutting, reforestation and
afforestation. Future lending for forest village development is also con-
templated. In urban development the Bank lent for Istanbul Water Supply and
Urban Studies in FY72 and for Istanbul power distribution in FY73. A second
lJrban Studies project is being prepared for FY75; and further infrastructure
lending in support of better planning and coordination of development in



- 8 -
Greater Istanbul and possibly in other cities is anticipated, should the in-
stitutional objectives underpinning earlier projects in Istanbul be satis-
factorily attained.
22.       As a result of the expanded membership of the Common Market and
some leveling off of bilateral aid, the EIB has become, along with the Bank,
Turkey's major source of external finance on non-commercial terms. The Bank
has developed informal cooperation with EIB in the past, for examDle, in
related but not formally parallel leading last year to the Turkish Railways
and to TSKB. The Antalya Forest Utilization Loan represents a further step
into formal joint financing with EIB, and we anticipate continuing a close
partnership in the proposed Elbistan Lignite Power Project and in other
future large-scale projects as appropriate.
23.       The Railways and Antalya Forest Utilization Project also exemplify
the Bank's continuing collaboration with UNDP. In both projects UNDP financed
the feasibility study for which the Bank acted as executing agency with the
help of outside consultants. In addition, UNDP is financing further railway
technl~cal assistance studies which form an integral part of the implementation
of the project. In 1973 UNDP financed a study of forest industries in the
Marmara region of Turkey to help define a larger study recommended for in-
clusion in the Antalya Forest Utilization Project. The Bank is also colla-
borating with UNDP and FAO in the preparation of the Rural Development Proj-
ect noted above, and collaboration is anticipated on other projects in the
future.
24.       IFC has been active in Turkey, having participated in investments
for nylon yarn, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum, steel pipe, and tourism.
Total commitments so far amount to about $44 million. IFC is currently in-
vestigating new investment opportunities in various sectors, including tex-
tiles, and synthetic fibers.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR IN TURKEY
25.       Imported oil and domestic firewood and dung currently meet, in about
equal proportions, some two-thirds of Turkey's energy needs. Energy develop-
ment strategy is to reduce relative dependence on these high cost sources.
The principal domestic alternatives in descending order of known potential
are low-calorific lignite, low-calorific coal, water power, and oil, plus
smaller reserves of geothermal energy and uranium oxide, neither of which
have been extensively explored. All will be pursued, but lignite, coal and
water are receiving the emphasis. The proposed Elbistan Project, as described
below, is intended to support both aspects of energy strategy--expanding elec-
tric power generation on the basis of domestic resources and providing in the
form of dried lignite a more efficient substitute for wood and dung as a house-
hold fuel.



- 9 -
26.       Under the policy guidance of the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources, responsibility in the electric power sub-sector is divided in
three ways: (a) TEK, an SEE formed in 1970 in a consolidation of widely
dispersed functions, has the primary national role, including specific re-
spornsibility for overall planning and for construction and operation of
thermal plants and transmission lines; (b) the State Hydraulic Works (DSI),
a semi-autonomous agency of the Ministry, is responsible for construction
of dams and in coordination with TEK for development of water power facil-
ities, which are turned over to TEK for management and operation; and (c)
various private utility companies are authorized to generate and distribute
power in specified areas, the most important being the Cukurova Electric
Company in the Adana region on the southeastern coast. Distribution is
normally in the hands of municipal authorities.
27.       Installed public generating capacity at the end of 1973 totalled
nearly 2,500 megawatts, of which 84 percent is owned by TEK and 12 percent
by Cukurova. TEK's interconnected system, which meets 95 percent of the de-
mand in western and central Turkey, is based about one-third each on water
power and oil-fired and coal-fired thermal plants. Demand for electrical
energy increased at about 12 percent per year between 1960 and 1972; the
annual growth rate is expected to be about 14 percent through 1977, grad-
ually tapering down thereafter to 11 percent in the middle 80's. A short-
fall in capacity emerged last year, which, together with plant failures,
forced load shedding and interruptions of supply. The development program
provides for a major investment effort mainly in water and lignite genera-
tion, to more than double installed capacity in the period 1974-1977 (bring-
ing it to 5,000 megawatts) and to double it again to 10,000 megawatts by
1984. The increase in the period 1974-77 will result from investments al-
ready underway, the 1,200 megawatts of additional capacity from the Elbistan
project becoming progressively available in the period 1978-80. Other major
projects that will contribute to this quadrupling of installed capacity in-
clude Keban hydropower (900 megawatts), Tuncbilek lignite (750 megawatts),
Karakaya hydropower (1,500 megawatts), the first phase of Karababa hydro-
power (500 megawatts) and a first nuclear power station (600 megawatts).
A program of village electrification was begun in 1964, providing service
to about 200 villages per year at first, and increasing to about 600 per
year by 1973. About 4,800 out of 36,000 villages had been electrified by
late 1973 and further progress at the target rate of 11,000 villages per
year is planned.
>S.       The principal problems in the power sector are in planning, manage-
r.ient, and pricing policy. Despite the responsibility given to TEK by its
enabling legislation, full coordination of planning and resource allocation
among the various agencies has still to be realized. Some agencies have main-
tained a fairly independent role; for example, water power development appears
to be handicapped by DSI's limited administrative capability and insufficient
coordination with TEK on assignment of investment priorities. TEK, as a new
organization, has faced normal initial difficulties, but has also been slower
than hoped in responding to organization and management recommendations form-
ulated by consultants under the Bank's 1967 technical assistance grant of



- 10 -
$1.95 million. TEK, like other SEE's, and DSI has also had difficulty hiring
and retaining professional and management staff because of low civil service
sa_arv scales.  The law requires TEK to earn an 8 percent return on net fixed
_ssets, but recent governments have been reluctant to raise power rates to
'.:eea pace with inflation: as a result, TEK has not been earning enough to
make a reasonable contribution to its investment program.
PART IV - ThE PROJECT
29.       A detailed description of the proposed project is given in the
report entitled "Appraisal of the Elbistan Project", Report No. 342-TU,
dated June 13, 1974, which is being distributed separately. A Loan and
Project Summary is attached as Annex III.
30.       The proposed project was appraised in October 1973 and missions
visited the country again in February and March 1974 to follow up the apprai-
sal and prepare negotiations. Bank representatives also attended meetings of
potential multilateral and bilateral financing agencies in Paris in January
and Mtarch 1974 and in Frankfurt in April 1974 to discuss financing and pro-
curement arrangements.   Further discussions on the financing arrangements
followed by negotiations took place in May in Washington. For these negotia-
tions the Government was represented by Mr. Muammer Akinci, Chief Economic and
Financial Counselor of the Turkish Embassy in Washington, and the Borrowers
by Mr. Huseyin Tekinel of TEK and Mr. Suat Seyhun of TKI.
General
31.       The project consists of the development of an open-cast lignite mine,
the construction of a thermal power plant and supporting housing and roads,
installation of transmission lines to Kayseri and Ankara, and provision of
consulting services. In addition, the Turkish authorities plan to construct
a drying plant to process lignite for use as a domestic fuel. The mine will
have a capacity of 20.7 million tons of lignite per year, of which 17.9 mil-
lion are for use in firing the power plant and 2.8 million tons for processing
into domestic fuel. The power plant will consist of four 300-megawatt genera-
tors, for a total net capacity of 1,048 megawatts, which at time of commission-
ing will add about 20 percent to Turkey's plant capacity. The transmission
lines, whiclh will be 380 kilovolts, will have a route length of 540 km and
tie the Elbistan power station into TEK's interconnected system.
32.       The lignite and its overburden will be dug by bucket-wheel excavators
withi a capacitv of 3000 m3 per hour (one of the highest in the world) and moved
by a conveyor-belt system.   An extensive dewatering system for the mine will
;lso supply tihe water requirement of the power station. The mining element
calls for exploitation of about 15 percent of the Elbistan lignite deposit
and will provide fuel for the 25-year planned life of the power plant. Work
on housing sites and roads has begun; other major site works will be started
in 1974.   Tne four power generators are scheduled to start working between
September 1973 and March 1980; the transmission lines will be completed to
Kayseri in 1978 and to Ankara in 1979.



33.       Project Costs.   The following table summarizes project and related
costs:
Million of US$
Local Foreign Total
Lignite Mine                                  83.12   194.15    277.27
Power Plant                                  180.01   478.21    658.22
Transmission Lines                            14.91    13.02     27.93
Total Project Cost                         178.04   685.38    963.42
Interest During Construction                  43.40   130.21    173.61
Total Cost                              321.44   815.99 1,137.03
Price contingencies have been included in both local and foreign costs for
1974-78 at annual percentage rates ranging from 14 to 7.5 percent for equip-
ment and 18 to 12 percent for civil works. Physical contingencies ranging
from 10.1 to 2.6 percent have also been included.
Project Procurement and Financing
34.       Because of the very large size of the project it has been necessary
to resort to a number of sources of external financing, from which a compli-
cated financing pattern has emerged. The Turkish Government itself will as-
sume responsibility for meeting all of the local currency costs, plus nearly
$250 million of foreign exchange costs, including $118 million of external
procurement and $130 million of interest during construction on external
loans for the project. Project items requiring foreign exchange are shown
under two groups in the table below. Group I consists of the major items
i.e. boilers, turbo-generators, excavators, spreaders and tripper cars, and
conveyors. Group II includes all other contracts for the mine, power plant
and transmission lines, including the general erection contract.    The for-
eign exclhange costs of these two groups, broken down according to sources
of financing, is given below:
Sources of                          Foreign Exchange Cost ($ million)
Financing                          Group I      GoffL             Total
IB RI)                                78            70             148
EIB                                   70            22              92
Germany (KfW)                        129              -            129
Other Bilaterals                     149            49             198
Turkey                                64            54             118
Total                      490           195             685



- 12 -
35.       As far as Group I is co.ncerned, bids have been obtained and an award
has been made to a firm of the Feieral Republic of Germany for the boilers,
and one is expected soon for the :urbo-generators under normal procedures
for international competitive bidding. Bids for the excavators and related
equipment were obtained on the basis of competition with financing attached
and award has been made to a firm of the Federal Republic of Germany. Bids
for the conveyors with financing attached are expected to be requested soon.
36.       Bidding for all items under Group II will take place between the end
of 1974 and the beginning of 1976. Procurement of the items financed by the
Bank will be under international competitive bidding procedures. For the
equipment not financed by the Bank, the Bank will be kept informed of all pro-
curement actions, and will be furnished bid documents, evaluation reports and
copies of contracts for all purchases having a value over $2 million. Con-
tracts and sub-contracts obtained by bidders from the European Community
would be financed by European lenders (EIB and bilateral sources) until
those funds are exhausted. The Bank loan would finance expenditures fall-
ing outside the EEC (except those items for which the successful bidder
would be prepared to offer credit at reasonable terms) as well as those
falling within the Community if European resources are exhausted. As bid-
ding proceeds, should it become evident that EIB funds or European bilateral
financing could not be fully utilized, then bidding on certain goods would be
restricted to bidding within the Community to ensure that all funds will be
utilized. Cost penalties, if any, on account of such restrictive bidding
should be minor, since there would still be adequate competition among Com-
munity suppliers.
37.       It is expected that the Bank will finance about 30 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of the boilers, with the balance of that cost and that
of the other major equipment items in Group I being financed by EIB, KfW and
other bilateral lenders. Under Group II the Bank is expected to finance 70
percent of the foreign exchange cost of items not financed by EIB and/or
bilateral lenders, and 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost for the
general erection contract and for the consultants, after the bilateral fi-
nancing previously provided for these consultants has been fully committed.
The Bank will not provide any retroactive financing for this project.
38.       Two EIB loans totaling 77 million units of account (about $92 mil-
lion equivalent) would be used to finance part of the cost of major equip-
ment components in Group I as well as items in Group II procured in the Euro-
pean Economic Community. The amount of $92 million in loans is contingent,
lhowever, on the turbo-generator bid being awarded to a member of the European
Economic Community. If this is not the case, the EIB loans would be limited
to 60 million units of account (about $72 million equivalent) and the Turkish
Government would request financing for the turbo-generators from the country
of the successful bidder. EIB's loans would have terms of 30 years, includ-
ing 8 years of grace, with interest at 2.5 percent per annum.
39.       Subject to its usual procedures, the German Government is expected
to provide a total of $129 million equivalent as financial contribution to the
project, of which $100 million would be in capital aid on concessionary terms



- 13 -
and $29 million in suppliers' credits. The capital aid would be provided
through several loans by Kreditansta.t fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) on terms of
30 years including 10 years of grace at 2 percent interest. The bulk of it
would come from unutilized amounts under Consortium pledges of 1972-73. About
$36 million equivalent would come from the 1974 agreement which is schedu:ed
to be negotiated in the fall of this year. The suppliers' credits would be or-
ganized and to a large extent provided by KfW on terms of 15 percent down pay-
ment, interest at present of around 8-3/4 percent, and 10-year repayment period
after the commissioning of the project or parts thereof.
40.       Three members of EIB have indicated that they would be prepared to
provic'e financing for the project in conjunction with the EIB loans for a total
of about $45 million subject to their usual procedures. These loans would be
partly on concessionary terms and partly on commercial terms. As regards the
remaining $153 million expected from bilateral lenders, the Turkish Govern-
ment has indicated that it expects to receive further bilateral assistance
on concessionary terms for 1975 and 1976 in amounts comparable to what it re-
ceived in the recent past, and that the Elbistan project will receive priority
when these funds are allocated. The Government is also approaching various
other financing sources and it seems reasonable to expect the full amount of
bilateral financing to become available from these sources.
41.       The Turkish Government's contribution of $118 million in foreign
exchange required for external procurement will be used to meet down payments
made before signature of the corrasponding loans and most of the estimated
escalation costs of the project. In addition the Guarantor has undertaken
to malke available any additional funds which may be required (Section 2.03
of the Guarantee Agreement), thus covering any shortfall which might occur
in the financing plan; the State Investment Bank would provide 50 percent
of the local financing needed, with the remainder being contributed by the
Government (recital (c) of the Loan Agreement). Interest during construc-
tion, now estimated at about $174 million equivalent, including $130 million
in foreign exchange, would also be financed by the Government.
42.       The above financing plan is supported by the clause of cross effec-
tiveness with the first EIB loan expected to be about $70 million and the
first KfW loan expected to be about $64 million (see Section 9.01 (a) of
the Loan Agreement). These institutions cannot make their full contribu-
tion available in one loan because of procedural constraints, but they have
agreed that the amount of their proposed financing be mentioned in the recital
of the Loan Agreement. As far as EIB is concerned, an amount of only $72 mil-
lion is mentioned because the balance of $20 million is contingent on the pro-
curement of the turbo-generators (see para. 38).
Financial and Administrative Covenants
43.       In order to further Bank efforts to improve the organization opera-
tions, and financLal standing of TEK and TKI, the Loan Agreement includes
provisions for achieving an adequate rate of return, carrying out necessary
assets revaluations, and relieving staffing consL-rints.



- 14 -
44.       Rate of Return.   The first loan to TEK (763-TU) made on June 22,
1971, stipulated that TEK would achieve an 8 percent rate of return on an-
nually revalued assets. The TEK law also specifies that TEK earn a return of
8%. To meet the requirement of the Bank loan, several increases in the basic
tariffs of TEK would have been needed over the years. However, successive
governments in that period have felt that the political situation was too
unstable to permit increasing prices charged by SEE's, including electricity
tariffs, although they permitted application of the fuel adjustment clause
resulting notably in an increase of 42 percent in the total price of electri-
city charged to TEK's consumers in December 1973 and in January 1974. Initial-
ly the new Government which was installed in February 1974 intended to adjust
the prices charged by all SEE's including TEK. However, the political re-
action to the increase in electricity price due to the fuel adjustment clause
as well as to a number of other substantial price adjustments was so strong
that the Government had to postpone the increase in electricity tariffs which
was contemplated. Instead the Government proposed a program to enable TEK to
achieve an 8 percent rate of return by 1976.
45.       Recognizing the difficulty the newly elected Government would have
in correcting quickly a situation resulting essentially from past inaction,
the Bank accepted the program proposed which includes three successive steps.
First, the basic tariffs will be increased to a level fully incorporating the
present fuel adjustment thus consolidating the recent 42 percent increase in
the total price of electricity.   This should permit TEK to earn a financicll
rate of return of 3.5 percent in 1974 on the 1973 asset base. Second, the
new basic tariffs will be increased by 31 percent not later than March 15,
1975, thus raising TEK's financial rate of return to 5.4 percent in 1975 on
the 1973 asset base. Thirdly all action necessary to insure to TEK a financial
rate of return of 8 percent in 1976 on the 1975 asset base will be taken not
later than March 15, 1976. Taking into account the high rate of inflation,
this may well include a further increase in basic tariffs of the same order
of magnitude as the one contemplated for March 1975. The first step would be
a condition of effectiveness of the Loan (Section 9.01 (d)). The other two
steps are embodied in the draft supplemental letter distributed with the loan
documents. Evertual achievement of the 8 percent rate of return target in
1976 should not only insure the long-term financial viability of the electricity
sector, but also avoid a situation where tax revenue paid in part by the poorest
part of the population could be used to subsidize the supply of electricity to
people who are better off.
46.       Revaluation of Assets.   In part because there was no prospect of
increasinsg tariffs, TEK has not revalued its assets as of the end of 1972
and 1973 in accordance with provisions specified in Loan 763. The proposed
Loan Agreement provides in Sections 5.07 and 9.01 (c) that a revaluation of
TEK's assets as of December 31, 1973 be a condition of effectiveness.    It
also provides in Schedule 5 that subsequent revaluations will be carried
out wlhenever the price index used as a basis for revaluation as of September
in each year, has changed by more than 15 percent since the previous revalua-
tion. Agreement was reached on the principles upon which the revaluations
are to be based and these are also embodied in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agree-
ment.



- 15 -
.         j~Staffing and Management.  Both TEK and TKI continue to face severe
_ fficulties in hiring and retaining management and technical staff, and es-
-ecially engineers, due to the great demand in the private sector and the low
ivil service salary levels which apply to all State Economic Enterprises.
,r;'s problems have been particularly acute with its vacancy rate for en-
gineers reaching 48 percent in mid-1973. Although government action in
late 1973 has resulted in some improvement, further staff reinforcement may
be necessary to ensure effective implementation of the project. The Loan
Agreemient (Section 4.02) therefore provides that TEK and TKI can employ
personnel on a contract basis, shiould that be considered necessary in the
opinion of the Guarantor or the Bank. In forming its opinion on this point
the Bank will rely heavily on the judgment of the consultants already employed
an(d wiho are familiar with this tyoe of project. The Bank has also stressed
the need for more continuity than in the past for TEK's General Manager and
for giving greater attention to the accounting and finance work of TEK.
48.       Lignite Supply Contract.   The lignite for the power station will be
mined by TKI, the State Economic Enterprise whiich hlas the responsibility for
developing Turkey's coal and lignite resources. Government control of coal
and lignite prices has been an important cause of TKI's financial deficit.
TKI also suffers from problems of organization and management, similar but
somewhat less acute than those of TEK.   As it seemed difficult to tackle TKI's
problems as broadly as those of TEK through the present project, and as TKI's
operations are already subdivided into three separate enterprises (Establish-
ments), it was agreed that TKI would set up by October 31, 1974 an Establish-
ment whose sole activity would be to mine and sell the lignite to TEK for the
Elbistan power station (Section 306 of Loan Agreement). TKI and TEK have also
undertaken to conclude an agreement satisfactory to the Bank and the Guarantor
for the sale by TKI to TEK of the lignite required to operate the power station
(Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement), and an understanding has been reached on
a formula for establishing) the basic price of the lignite to ensure thiat the
Establishment to be set up by TKI will ad(leuately cover its costs and obtain
an 8) percent return after taxes on the original mining investment as revalued
from time to time. The pricing arrangement represents substantial progress
over tihe existing price control whichi al)plies to the balance of TKI's output.
Adin*nistration of the Project
4'.       Primary responsibility for the implementation of the project will
rest with TEK and TKI respectively for the power and mining parts. The con-
sultants will play a major role in assisting the Borrowers in all phases of
project implementation including planning, procurement, construction super-
vision and general management. Overall coordination will be insured by the
Project Coordinating Committee specified in Section 3.07 of the Loan Agree-
ment which will be chaired by a representative of the Minister of Energy and
Natural Resources, and whichi will include the General Managers of TEK and
TKI and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and other interested
agen1cies. The Committee will reconcile major issues to insure the smooth
and timcly execution of tile Project.  An informal assurance has been given
that matters of day-to-day coordination during construction will be handled
by a sub-committee of four under the same clhairman, witlh full authority to
act on behalf of the Coordlinating Committee, and that a representative of



- 16 -
the consultants will be present at all meetings of the sub-committee. This
committee is expected to ensure a streamlined chain of command from the TEK
and mI site managers to top management and undertake to see that the proj-
ect proceeds according to a critical path schedule.
Ecological Considerations
50.       The mine and power plant are located in a treeless, sparsely popu-
lated steppe witlh little agriculture or wild life. Nevertheless, the Loan
Agreement provides in Section 3.09 for major pollution controls. The primary
problem is ash in the flue gases of the power plant. Electrostatic precipi-
tators will remove 99 percent of these particles, reducing their fallout to
levels accepted in developed countries. Sewage will be treated, and any
local lowering of the water table would be compensated by piping in water.
The overburden refuse dump and refilled pit of the mine will be rehabilitated
in due course.
Economic Justification
51.       The decision to invest at this time in generating capacity of the
proposed order of magnitude derives from the demand projections discussed
above in paragraph 27. These projections are not ambitious, and a growth
rate two percentage points lower would only permit one year's slippage.
Neither hydro nor nuclear generation is feasible in the time period. Lig-
nite was chosen as the fuel instead of oil since it showed a better return
and reduced reliance on foreign resources. Analysis of alternative power
development programs through 1987 (including and excluding Elbistan) showed
that the Elbistan Project would be preferable to a thermal station fueled by
oil at discount rates of up to 12.3 percent, with a relative insensitivity of
the result to differences in load growth.
52,       The Elbistan development will also have important social consequences
through the production of dried lignite. As indicated in para. 25., substitu-
tion of commercial forms of energy for traditional fuels (firewood and dung)
is an important objective of Turkish energy policy, but little real progress
has so far been made in achieving this objective. At present it is estimated
that 50 percent of animal manure produced in the 26 eastern provinces compris-
ing the Elbistan market area is converted into household fuel instead of being
returned to the soil. Elbistan will permit replacing about 15 percent of this
witlh dried lignite yielding estimated annual agricultural benefits of $13
million. In addition, annual replacement of 300,000 tons of firewood will be
a significant step in conserving Turkey"s valuable forest reserves.
53.       The rate of return on the Project is estimated to be 17.6 percent
if benefits are measured by incremental revenue from power sales attributable
to the proposed E'lbistan power station, plus net benefits' attributable to that
portion of the niine's output used to produce dried lignite for sale and if
financial costs are adjusted for taxes, internal transfers, sunk costs and
shadow-pricing of unskilled labor.   Sensitivity tests on the load forecast,
capital costs, station plant factor, power tariffs, operation and maintenance
costs and dried lignite benefits indicate a probable range of 12-22 percent.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between TER and TKI and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Reipublic of Turkey and the Bank, the draft
supplemental letter regarding tariffs, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the
text of a Resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Features of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 42 and 45-50 of
this Report. In other respects the draft documents conform to the normal
pattern for loans for power projects.
55.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOITENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive DirectDrs approve the proposed Loan
and Guarantee Agreements.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 17, 1974






ANNEX I
rage I of 3
COUNTRY DATA - TURKEY
AREA                                            POPULATION                                      DENSITY2
780,000 km                                      38.2 million (mid-1973)                        48 per km 2
140 per km   of arable land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Comparisons
Turkey                France        Spain         Egypt
1960      -     70           1970          1970          1970
GNP pel Capita US$ (Atlas basis)                               230         o10            3,100         1,020          210
Demographic
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                              43.0/a        39.6/b         16.9/a        20.4          44.1
Crude death rate (per thousand)                              13.577        14.677-        11.0           8.8          16.5
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)            165.07d       153.07o         18.8          31.Y         123.1
Life expectancy at birth (years)                             h8.O7         514.5          72.5          70.5          49.9
Gross reproduction rate /1                                    2.9/a         2.9            1.3           1.4           3.0
Popuilation growth rate 12.                                   2.87i;n       2.5            1.0           1.1           2.5
Population growth rate - urban                                6.177;        5.8             2.0          1.8           4.0
Age structuire (percent)
0-114                                                     41.2          41.9/e          23.8          28.2          42.7/c
19-614                                                     55.1          54.177         62.8          62.5          53.8
6, and over                                                 3.7           4.07e7        13.4            9.3           3.5
Dependency ratio /3                                          81.5          84.5           59.2          60.0          85.9
Population density per sq. km.                               37.0          45             93            66            33
Urban population as percent of total                         31.9          36.8           70.1          60.8          43.1
Family planrinlg: No. of acceptors cumulative (thous.)        5.0         282              ..             ..         200
No. of users (% of married women)          n.a.           4.4             *-                          9.0
Emp2 oyment
Total labor force (thousands)                            12,993        15,948         21,99414      12,138         9,174
Percentage employed in agriculture                         74.9          66.2            14.3          33.7          54.7
Percentage unemployed                                      n.a.           6.o            1.1           1.2           3.1
Income Distribution
Percent of national income received by lowest 20%            n.a.          3   /k
Percent of national income received by highest 2%            n.a.         33
Percent of national income received by lowest 405            n.a.           9
Health and Nutrition
Population per physician                                  2,890  /e     2,260            747           770         2,004
Population per nursing person                             3,432 77       1,960           360         1,730         2,400
Population per hospital bed                                 570 7g         500            113          220           472
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements /4           123.9         110.0/h        129.2         110.4         12u.4/f
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per dayT/5           97.5          77.9          103.7           83.6          76.3
of which, animal and pulse                                 19.9          21.9           66.4.          42.6          18.5
Death rate 1-4 years /6                                                                     0.8          1.0          37.9
Eduication
Adjusted /7 primary school enrollment ratio                  54.0          77            124             77            70
Adjusted 77 secondary school enrollment ratio                15.0          24             66             38  /a        30
Years of schooling provided, first and secornd level         11            13             12            15            12
Vocational enrollment as % of sec. school enrollment         17.7          14.4           24.9          21.6          15.8
Adult literacy rate %                                        38.o          46  /e          96           9L,           26
Housing
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                      n.a.           2.4             l.O/g        0.9/c         1.6/c
Percent of occupied units without piped water                44           36               20.2/g                     60.57c
Access to electricity (as % of total population)             23            39                            2
Percent of rural population conrnected to electricity        n.a.
C onsuNDtion
C3amiproreeivers per 1000 population                         49.0          87             314          214           132
Passenger cars per 1000 population                            1.7           4             252            70            4
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                       101.0         242           3,794         1,495           268
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                        0.8           2.0            11.9           5.8           1.0
Notes: Figures refer either to the latest periods or to           and distribution by age and sex of national population.
the latest years. Latest periods refer in principle to        15  Protein standards (requirements) for all countries as est4b-
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin.           lished by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a minimum
ciple to 1960 and 1970. Only significantly different              allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 grams.9f
periods or years are footnoted separately.                        animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
/1  Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive         protein. These standards are somewhat lower than those of 75
age.                                                          grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
/2  Population growth rates are for the decades ending in         average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
1960 and 1970.                                                Survey.
/3  Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets to         /6 Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 64.           ages 1 through 4 may be used as a first approximation index of
/4  FAO reference standards represent physiological re-           malnutrition.
quirements for normal activity and health, taking         /7  Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
account of environmental temperature, body weights,           as defined for each country.
/a  1950-55 UN estimate;    /b  1967;   /c  1959 District Centers only;    /d  1962;    /e  1965;    /f  1963;    /g  1964;
77  1964/66 avg.;    /i    1973;                                   /i 195071 provinciarcapitals;       /k  1968
71 As % of total population rural and urban;    /m  1950-1960 growth rate.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
TURKEY
ECONOMIC DEVEI.OPMENT DATA SHEET
(amounts is millions of U.S. dollars)
Actua.P.oc)                                         1960-     1965-     1970      1924 -
1_96_5     965      1970       1974      1975      1979      1965      1970      1975      1979      1960      1970       1979
,SATIOS'AI. AICCOUNTS               I-crAcou          t16-9Pio               xh    oEtn              A-erga Annoa l Groth Rate              As Percet of 0DY
Cros   Dometic Product            510       7110     9616      12769      15759    18535       N.7       6.2       7.4       7.7       98.9        190.5     190.0
l;oiou  rom Torus of Tod  (4) 60     49      -4N         40         24       -6                                                1.1          -.5       -
Cros   Don-stic laco-c            545K      71T5-9   95 72     1282_9    -1-373 9  18529       5.6       6.0       7.6       7.6      123077      T=OW.     TOOTS
Imports (int. liPS)                618       719     1071       1252       1387     1795       3.1       8.3      11.5       6.4       11.3         11.2      9.2,
Exports "fimeurt tocacity)'        399       546      701       1299       1288     1756       6.5       5.1      12.9       8.5        7.3          7.3       9.9
Roun-rc   Cup                      219       173      370         43        -99      -NI                                              ''71         "T 9     '075
C-nnpci.ns E,pooditlure           1.9)31    6094     7999      10197      10919    14348       4.3       5.6       6. 4      7.1       90.5        83.5       77.4
Insotocs 1    (1-cI . stocks)"     738      1237     1952       7675       29n4     4l3E      10.9       9.6 6I.7            9.1       13.5        20.4      22.3
Donc-tic So-iog.                   519      106/,    1582       2632       2865     4181      15.5       8.2      12.6       9.7        9.5         16.5      72.6
Nati-1lSolg                        536      1117     1768       3288       3563     4989      15.8       9.6      15.9       8.7        9.8         18.5      26.9
IRRCIRMDIIE TRADE                                Annual Data atCurret PniunS                                                                 An Percn..t of Total
Consume  gyo,du                     45         75      47         156        187     368                                                 9.6         5.0       8.6
Imtor-diatn goods (without
perrele-n products)               127       249      387        205        816     1198                                               22.1         49.8      25.8
Prlomp-odoctt                  52        57      6,7        636        607      072                                               11.2         7.1      22.6
Capital goads                       24 4      541     446        1328       1460     1640                                               52.1        47.1      42.9
Tota1                    468       572     948       2825        3089    4288                                              100.9        100.0     190.0
BoP-cts
Agricutcuro pru,doct                727       348     443         945       1005    1155                                                70.8        73.1      51.9
Pecroloo   products                  -          6        1         90         90      90                                                  -           -        4.0
pocool-o products)                 81        92       99        120        2 55     830                                               25.2         18.6      37.3
Mining po     t                      13        18      45          50         65      150                                                4.9         8.3       6.8
Total                    321      464      537        1275       1415    2225                                              100.9        100.0     100.0
M-rhandiso Trade Indln-                               A--rge 1967-69 - 100
Euport P,lu-   inden                110.9     110.6    102.5      154.5      159.2    179.2      -      -1.5       9.7        2.9
Import Peden Radon                   89.5      94.9    112.8      150.1      156.4    i79.7     1.2      3.5       6.8       3.6
Teno   of Trado lInden              123.9     116.6     90.9      102.9      101.8     99.7
Enport Vol1-    IAnn.                51        25      113        172        191      767      8.0        8.1      11.0       8.5
VdALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                  Annua 1Data    t1967-69 Pniuns 6 Euchango ERns
AgricuILc-rc                       2149      2300     2842       2994       3927     3637       2.1       3.6       1.3       3.9       39.2        29.6      22.2
Indu-try                            870      1288    2034        2712       3903    4567       8.1       9.9        8.1     11.0        15.9        21.2      27.9
Neroioos                           1283     2724     3292        5540       6028     8107      8.8       2.2        7.9       7.9       45.9        49.2      49.9
CDP 'actor --n          4102       6392    8674       11254      12108    16311       5.8       6.3       7.3       7.7      105.0       100.0     150.0
PUBLIC FINRANCE
(Pederal G-or-mnt)
Cu,rret Recipts                     844 I/   1092     1735
Current Enp-,ditures     2/         690 1/    872     1331      ______
BodEot-ry S-vieRs                   154 1I   220       40
Oth-r Pnbli Sector
Public lette    Imo-t-re            3 96      584     1004
DETAIL ON                       At 1962-69 PEER             As P-ruet of Total
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS              Acttual          Pr-lim.     Rut.     Proj.                                 Last Plan-      New Plan     Last Plan       New Plan
(An . / Torel Currat REman..d)        1963      1979       1922       1 923   1974       INVESTMIENT PROGRBAM        f1968-72j      (1923-1977)     ll1968- 72)   (1973-1972
Educttion                            18.6      16.1       22.2
Agri-Iltur, rural offaire             4.1       4.2        5.8                         Agric-lt-r                  1144              1935          12.2           11.2
lal..th, soial   -1llare              5.2       4.5        6.9                         Industry                    3480             7509           37.1          45.4
D,ofo--, gendarmerie                 33.2      26.2       26.9                         Tranport                    1566             2398           16.2           14.5
Others                                8.       48.5       49.0                         H... ngn                    1904             2592           20.3           15.2
Social setor                 582              1059           6.2            6.4
TocaI                  100.0    100.1       100.0                        Other seroKoms               704               942            7.5           6.3
Total                9380             16540          100.0         100.9
SELECTED INDICATCRI                              1960-     1965-      1970-   1974-
lcalculatcd fro-  3-sear a-eratd data)           1965      1970      1975     1979
Anarugo ICOR                                     2.68       3.13      2.30    2.81
loport tl-sctciy                                  .51       1.39      1.13     .74
Marginal D-onstc S-eings Rate                     .32        .21       .30     .29
Merginal Natino ..  brSiDEs Rate                  .33        .25       .38     .32
4/
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Porte (millioons)                     Valac Added Per Wonker (1967-69 Price         E.inh. Eaten)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                   I MillE1ons         7. of Total        1912-72                Re U.S. Dellaru      Percent at A-or    o      1962-722
1962      1-972     16       1922    Crowrh Rate               1962        1972      1962          1927     Growth Rate
ARr-Ict-r                        9.2        8.8      23.6     61.9       -0.9                    230         310        53           45           6.1
lndu-tny                         1.1        1.5       8.0     10.5        4.3                   920         1490       214          216         10.1
lo...ic-s                        2.3        3.9      18.4     22.6       11.1                   1030        1240       240          180           3.8
Tota,l              12.5       14.2     100.0    100.0        1.0                   430          690       100          100           9.9
nor applicable                        e staff estimate
.ton   -cilablo                        - nIl or ne8lEgChRo
s. ot -aallablo separatoly              -- lens than half Iho
hut included in total                     smallest unit shoso
1/  1962
2/ i-clding utron.t tranfers
5/ total puhlic sector
4/ labor deman.d



ANIEX 1
Page 3 of 3
TURKEY
BALANCE (OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAI, ASSISTANCE AND DEBT PROJECTIONS
(amounts ,n millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annoal
Growth Rate
1969   Actoal  1972  Eli_9tn d                        Projected                        Proj.    1974   1979
1969     1970    1971     1972      1973      1974     1975     1976     1977    1978    1T979     1989    1979    1989
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Boperts ('i.n    NFS)             775       760      853    1109      1622       1804    2007     2233     2484    2796      3148    10293    11.9    12.6
m.oprt.s (i-l. NFS)              -940     -1372    -1356   -1789     -2424      -3131   -3415    -3921    -4t97   -4374     -4875   -13j54     8.9    10.7
Resoar-e Balance (X-M)           -165      -612     -533    -680      -802      -1327   -1408    -1 6I88  -2013   ZT7          T    -42SF
ot-errot (not)                    -45       -47     -60      -62       -72        -78     -88     -100     -121    -137      -153    -386
Direc t 1n--stment Income         -32       -33     -36      -3:5      -41        -42      -43     -45      -46      -48       -49    -66
Workers' Remittance                141      273      471      740     1100       1005     1123    1254     1401     1471      1545   2516      8.9    10.2
Co-rret Transfers (net)          -120       248        6      29        92         94       96      99      102      107       107    142
Sal alice on Coumor-t Accosnts    2T      tTT-22        1 -1 / -I Z  _  Z/         / -j     4    b -srr             WTT        217 -l -To
Private Direct Investmnrt          20        34       27      39        44         45       48      51       55       58        61     99
Official Capital Grants            41        83       55       16       20         22       24       26      28       28        30     40
Polblic M&LT Loan.s
Disbursements                   279       337      343      304      368        390      402     4;0      437      445       511   1137      5.7     8.3
-Repayments                     -115      -197     -125    -127      -119       -128     -134    -143     -162     -190      -207   -441     10.1     7.9
NBt Diobhorsenents                 164      140      218 2     8177  -74T        47        3       7259    4    -  2655       3 045   696      3.4.    8.6
Other M&LT Loans
Di oborsements
- Repayments
Net Disborsements
Capital T-ansactions n.e.i.   1/   118      100      168      342      -79        -78        1       25      26       29        32     80
Change in Net Reserves    2/     -122      -186     -346    -566      -510         97       21       91     293    -185      -150     210
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like
Publie M&LT Loans
IBRD1                            49        40       55     177       105
IDA                              12         -       20      36        30
Other (F I B)                    17        16       14        2       50
Other Multilateral               16       115       12      27         -
Governments                     267       267      251     178       135
Soppliers                        21        27       21      31        30
Financial Institotions           10        20        9      14        15
Bonds                             -         -
Public Loans n.e.i.
Total Public M&LT Loans           392       486      382     465       365
DEBT AED DEBT SERVICE
Pablic Debt Out. & Dinborsed       1647      1842     2191    2455      2703
Interest on Public Debt            45        47       60      62        72
Repaymetnt on Public Debt         115       197      125     127       119
Total Public Debt Service         160       244      185     189       191
Other Db    Service (net)            -        -        -        -        -
Total Deb:- Service (net)         160       244      185     189       191
Borden on Export Earnings (7.)
Public Debt Service                15.4      16.9     12.9     10.2     7.6
Total Debt servie-                  15.4     16.9     12.9     10.2     7.6
TDS+Dir-ct Invest. Inc.
Average Tenon of Public Debt
Int. as Y. Prior Year DO&D          3.2       2.9      3.3     2.8      2.9
A-ort. as % Prior Year DO&D         8.1      12.0      6.8     5.8      4.9
IRRD Debt Out. & Dinbursed
as /. Public Debt O&D            2.4       2.9      3.3              5.4
as h Public Debt Service                                              7.1
IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
as % Public Debt O&D               4.6       4.5     4.0               3.9
as   Public Debt Service                                               .5
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31,1972
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED EXTERNAL DEBT:      Disb. Only   Percent      Total      Percent
World Bank                                 92          3.7        361         10.7
IDA                                        99         4.0        156          4.6
Other Multilateral                        181          7.3        195          5.8
Govcr-ments                              1939         79.2      2403         71.4
Suppliers                                 66          2.7        134          4.0
Financial Institutions                     57          2.3        96          2.9
Bonds                                      20           .8        20            .6
Public Debts n.e.i
Total Public M&LT Debt                    2455       100.0      3364        100.0
Oth0r M&LT Debts
Short-term  DebL (disb. only)
not opplicabic                                 e staff estimate
..not available                                - nil or negligible
not available separately                      -- lens than half the
bht inclodod in total                            smallest unit shows
1/ including error and omission
2/ - increase






ANNE1X 11
6
I':tu 1l ot 6
THE STATUS OF BANK (,ROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of April 30, 1974)
Loan or                                                           Amount (less
Credit                                                     cancellations) US$Million
Number    Year    Borrower              Purpose            Bank    ThA     Undisbursed
Eight loans and credits fully disbursed                    82.2    80.3
568-TU    1968    Republic of Turkey    Keban Trans-
mission Lines      25.0
587_TIU   1969    Republic of Turkey    Seyhan Irrigation
S-tage II          12.0
143-TU    1969    Republic of Turkey    Seyhan Irrigation
Stage II                   12.0
589-TU    1969    TSKB                  Industry           25.0                O.i'
713-TU    1970    TSKB                  Industry           lto.o               1.C;
236-TU    1971    Republic of 'Turkey   Livestock II                ht.5       3.14
7h8-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey    Education          13.5               13.2
762-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey    Fruit and
Vege'able          10.0               10.0
257-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey    Fruit and
Vegetable                  15.0       10.9
763-TU    1971    TEK                   Power Transmission 24.0               12,2
775-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey    Fourth Cukurova     7.0                1.6
281-TU    1972    Republic of Turkey    Irrigation
Rehabilitation             18.0
817-TU    1972    Republic of Turkey    Steel W4ill
Expansion          76.0               65.5
8h_-TU    1972    Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Water
Supply             37.0               35.7
32h4-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Urban
Development                 2.3        2.3
845-TU    1972    IGSAS                 Fertilizer
Industry           24.0               23.1
330-TU    1972    Repu'olic of 'rurkey  Livestock II               16.0       16.0
873-TU    1972    TSKB                  Industry          4ho.o               2*t
883-TU    1973    Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas    44.0               4h.0'
360-TU    1973    Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas            30.0       30.0
892-TIJ   1973    Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Power
Distribution       14.0               14.0
893-TU    1973    Turkish State Railw.  Railway Project    47.0               ho.6
957-TUh/ 1974     Republic of Turkey    Antalya Forestry   40.0               40.0
TOTAL                               560.7   178.1      h13.6
of which has been repaid            66.3
Total now outstanding                   h9b.2   177,3
Amount sold                     3.6
of which has been repaid      1.2       2.L 
Total now held by Bank & IDA2!          491.8   177.78
Total undisbursed                       336-8    77.2      )413.6t
a/ 0.0 as of May 10, 1974
iJ Not yet effective
i   Prior to exchange adjustrnents



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
THE; STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B. STATEXENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of April 30, 1974)
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor         'Type of B3usiness          Loan     Equity       Total
13(&3   TSKB             DFC                          -        0.92        0.92
1C66     SIFAS I          Nylon Yarn                  0.90      o.47        1.47
19 6 7   TSKB             DFC                          -        0.34        0.34
1969     TSK8            DOF                          -        0.11         0.41
196°,    SIFAS II         Nylon Yarn                   1.50     o.43        1.93
1i69     Viking I         Pulp and Paper               2.50     o.62        3.12
1970     ACS              Glass                      10.00      1.58       11.58
1970     NASAS            Alumin-un                    7.00     1.37        8.37
1970     SIFAS III        Nylon Yarn                  0.75      -           0.75
1971     Viking II        Pulp and Paper               -        0.05        0.01
1971     SIFAS IV         Nylon Yarn                   -        0.52        0.52
1972     TSKB             DFC                          -        o.43        0.o3
1973     TSKB             DFC                         10.00     -          10.00
19-      Akdeniz         'Tourism                      0.33     0.27        o.60
197l     Borusan          Steel Pipes                  3.60     o.43        4.03
Total gross commitments                     36.58      7.84       4s.42
less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales              10.80     1.23        12.03
Total commitments now held by IFC           25.78     6.61        32.39
Total undisbursed                            3.87     1.16         5.03



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -/
Ln. No. 568 Keban Transmission Lines Project; US$25.0 Million Loan of October
31 , 1968. Closing Date: August 31, 1974. Progress on this project was in-
terrupted for about a year in 1970/71 by a dispute between the Turkish Elec-
tricity Authority (TEK) and the principal contractor concerning payment of
the increased cost of the project, following the devaluation of the Turkish
lira. The matter was resolved through arbitration and TEK is now carrying out
construction using its own staff. A revised construction program indicates
that one circuit, Keban to Istanbul, should be completed by the end of June
1974, in time for start-up of the first units at Keban. The remainder should
be completed by August 1974. It is expected that the residual amount of the
loan will be disbursed by July of this year.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 587/143 Second Seyhan Irrigation Project: US$12 Million Loan
and US$12 Million Credit of February 20, 1969.   Closing Date:   June 30, 1975.
The project is making satisfactory progress with exception of land leveling
which will not be completed by the present closing date. Because of high
cotton prices, project farmers prefer not to make their lands available for
leveling. Yields of wheat and seed cotton, the principal crops, reached re-
cord levels in 1972/73. A large part of this success can be attributed to the
efficient working of the project extension service which was set up for the
first time in Turkey to integrate the various extension service activities in
the project area under a full time extension service manager with sole respons-
ibility for the project. Coordination of irrigation and drainage works, on-
farm development and the extension service has been achieved by a project
coordinating committee representing the concerned Government agencies.
Ln. Nos. 713 and 873 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$40
million loan of November 27, 1970 and US$40 million loan of December 28,
1972. Closing Dates: June 30, 1975 and December 31, 1976 respectively.
Since the first Bank loan was made in 1950, a satisfactory relationship has
been developed with TSKB. These loans when fully disbursed would bring total
Bank Group lending to TSKB to $168 million. The standard of TSKB appraisal
work is consistently high and sub-projects submitted for Bank approval are
well prepared. Progress is being made towards more regionally even distribu-
tioIl of investments.
1/   These notes are dTesigned to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lerns which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in' this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project executions.



ANNEX _1
Page 4 of 6
Cr, No. 236 First Livestock Project: US$4.5 million credit of February 22,
1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1975. Implementation of this project was de-
layed initially by difficulties encountered by the Turkish authorities in
fulfilling some of the effectiveness conditions under the Credit Agreement
and by administrative problems in hiring the necessary staff for the project
unit. These delays were largely due to the absence, following a reorganiza-
tion of the Turkish Governrment administration in M,1arch 19719 of an effective
coordinating link between the various ministries concerned wizh the project
and between the Government and the Bank Group.    Steps have been taken to
correct this deficiency and progress on the project is now satisfactory.
Ln, No. 748 Education Project:   US$13.5 million loan of` June 9, 1971.  Closing
Date: September 30, 1976. The execution of the project has progressed slowly,
due to the weakness of the Pro,ject Unit which has been handicapped by a lack
of staff and authority commensurate witih its assigned responsibilities. As a
result, the project is over a year behind schedule for civil works and equip-
miient procurement.  Until now no disbursement applications have been made.
A cost overrun of about 30 percent is expected for civil works for the Manage-
ment Institute and the six Adult Training Centers included in the project.
A recent supervision mission provided assistance in preparing architectural
briefs and has submitted several ,uggestions to strengthen the Project Unit,
streamline its operations and ensuire thiat specialists' assistance is available
as and when required to expedite its work. Action is now being taken towards
correcting operational deficiencies, and significant improvements are expected
in project implementation over the next three months.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project:    US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971.   Closing Date:   June 30, 1976.
This project was also delayed by difficulties in meeting some of the conditions
of effectiveness by the due date for the reasons noted under Cr. 236 above.
Progress on 3 of 5 major project components is now satisfactory (refrigerated
trucks, ferry boats, marketing facilities). New approaches are envisaged to
encourage citrus production, the fourth component; thie fifth, the agricultural
credit survey, is more than a year behind schedule and will need a special
effort by the Government if it is to produce meaningful results.
Ln. No. 763 TEK Power Transmission Project: US$24 million loan of June 22,
1971.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1975.   Implementation of this project has been
delayed by shortage of staff. First contracts were awarded early in 1972 and
work is now progressing according to the revised schedule. Problems in meet-
ing the financial covenants have been resolved in connection with the proposed
Elbistan project.
Ln. No. 775 Fourth Cukurova Power Project: US$7 million loan of June 30, 1971.
Closing Date: March 31, 1975. The project is well advanced but the benefi-
ciary, Cukurova K'.A.S., has indicated that approximately US$0.5 million will
be needed to meet additional remaining foreign expenditure commitments, which
they expect to obtain from local sources.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1977. Civil works are well under-
way after a slow start.   On-farm development is progressing with the receipt
of part of the new equipment, but is still lagging behind schedule and will
necessitate an extension of the credit closing date. Appointment of consult-
ants for the Extension Service and Topraksu is taking longer than anticipated.
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Closing Date: December 1976. As a result of procurement problems
and ineffective management, the project is about one year behind schedule.
Past efforts to improve the organization have been relatively unsuccessful,
but additional steps are now being taken and the prospects for strengthened
project management capability have now risen. However, prospects for sub-
stantial cost overruns are high, and steps are being explored for obtaining
required overrun financing from Government sources.
Ln. No,. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1977. This loan was made effective on January
5, 1973 after some delays. Reasonable progress is being made by DSI on source
development facilities, but the Istanbul Water Authority (ISI) has delayed
the engagement of engineering and management consultants. Very little progress
has been made so far on the ISI component of the project. The Government re-
cently approved substantial water rate increases.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1977. This credit was made effective
on January 5, 1973. Four consultant groups started work between November 1973
and February 1974.  Work on Waste Water and Traffic Engineering and Control
Projects is proceeding satisfacto::ily. The Wholesale Market Complex will have
to be rescheduled due to questions about site suitability.
Ln. lio. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$24 million loan
of June 30, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1976. This project was declared
effective on October 6, 1972. Progress in implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily following earlier delays in procurement. As a result of the
tight supply situation of equipment and general price increases, the project
is likely to have a cost overrun.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Closing Date: December 31, 1976. There have been delays in setting
up the project's organization mainly because of lack of action on the proj-
ect's personnel budget. Steps have recently been taken which should correct
tflis situation.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. $83/360 TU, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project:    US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Closing Date:
December 312 1981.   The loan/credit was made effective as of Ularch 20, 1974.
Construction underway thus far includes the access road to the camp site at
Aslantas dam, campsite buildings and some irrigation and drainage works on
the left bank of the Seyhan river. Energoproject has been appointed as
engineering consultant for the Aslantas Dam and Power plant. Contracts for
on-farm development equipment have been awarded.



.Al Z i II
Page 6 of 6
Lu. Nc. 892 Istanbu'L Power Distribution Project:   US$14.0 rmillion loan of
May 25, 1973.   Closing Date:  December 31, 1976.   The project has been delayed
by thie failure to appoint consultants to complete the project studies and
designs. The General Management study is in progress.
Ln. No. 893-TU Turkish State Railways:   US$47 million loan of Mal5y 25  973.
Closing Date:   September 30, 1976.  After iniLial delays, procurement of
rrack material and oLher Bank-financed items is now progressing satisfactorily.
TCDD's locomotive production has fallen considerabLy behind schedule, however,
and this may adversely affect the project in the long-run if production prob-
lems are not resolved by the remedial measures being undertaken,. The comple-
tion of tariff reform studies hias also been delayed and the Government' has
requested that the date for their completion and related passeager    tariff
increase be extended.   A Bank mis3ion presently in Turkey is studying the
request.
Ln. No. 957-TU Antalya Forestry Proiect: US$40 million loan of January 28,
1974.  Closins Date:  December 31978.      Because of delays in the execution
of the conditions for effectiveness, including the completiorn of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the date of effectiveness has been extended from Apri'l 29,
1974 to July 15, 1974. Implementation of the project is also being delayed
by thie issue of plant site acquisition and by problems in the hiring of con-
sultants for forestry development and studies. Measures are being taken to
resolve these problems.
Technical Assistance Project - Turkish Electricity Authoritvy (TEK):   US$1.9
million grant of August 20, 1967.   Technical assistance contracts covering
the second phase of the work were terminated in November-December 1i972.
Aclhievenment, though short of target in some respects, is generally satisfactory
and TEK now has a much improved accounting, budgeting and financial reporting
system. Reorganization of TEK based on the consultants' report concerning
organization structure is under way. Proposals for the lasL phiase of the
work are under discussion with the Turkish authorities.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
ELBISTAN LIGNITE POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJ2CT SUWARY
Borrowers:             Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) and the Turkish
Coal Enterprises (TKI).
Guarantor:             Republic of Turkey.
Amount:                $ 148.0 million in various currencies.
Terms:                 25 years including five years of grace, with interest
at 7-1/4 percent per annum.
Project, Description-:  To help finance the development of an open-cast
lignite mine in East-Central Turkey by TKI with an
annual output of about 17-20 million tons and con-
struction by TUC of a mine-based thermal power station
with a capacity of 1,200 MW and associated trans-
mission lines.
Co-lenders:            Baropean Investment Bank (EIB) and Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW), and other lenders.
The European Investment Bank is providing two loans
totaling 77 million units of account (about $92 million
equivalent), which could be reduced to 60 million units
of account (about $72 million), should the bid for the
turbo-generators not be awarded to a member of the
Earopean Economic Comaunity. The German Government,
through Kfi, is providing several loans totaling
$129 million of which $100 million would be capital
aid on concessionary terms and $29 million in suppliers'
credits. Three members of EJB have indicated that they
would be prepared to provide financing for the project
in conjunction with the EIB loans for a total of about
$45 million subject to their usual procedures. In
addition, further foreign exchange financing has been
requested from a number of financing sources for a
total of $153 million.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost: The cost of the project is estimated at about $1,137 million
equivalent and is summarized as follows:
Millions of $
Local    Foreign    Total
Lignite Mine           83.12     194.15    277e27
Power Plant           180.01     478.21     658.22
Transmission Lines     14.91      13.02      27093
Total Project Cost 278.04     685.38     963.42
Interest During
Construction         43.40     130.21    173.61
Total Cost         321.44     815.99  1,137.03
Financing Plan:  Project items requiring foreign exchange have been divided into
two groups. Group I consists of the boilers, turbo-generators,
excavators, spreaders and tripper cars, and conveyors. Group II
includes all other contracts for the mine, power plant and trans-
mission lines, including the ge eral erection contract.
Sources of                Foreign Exchange Cost ($ million)
Financing               Group I      Group II      Total
IBRD                     78           70          148
EIB                      70           22            92
KfW                     129            -           129
Bi-laterals             149           49           198
Turkey                   64            54          118
Total          490          195           685
Procurement
Arrangements: As far as Group I is concerned, bids have been obtained under
normal procedures for international competitive bidding and
an award has been made to a firm of the Federal Republic of
Germany for the boilers, and one is expected to be made soon
for the turbo-generators. Bids for the excavators and related
equipment were obtained on the basis of competition with
financing attached. The lowest evaluated bid has been offered
by a West German firm and award is expected soon. Bids for
the conveyors with financing attached are expected to be
requested soon. Bidding for all items under Group II will
take place between the end of 1974 and the beginning of 1976,
with procurement of the items financed by the Bank to be
handled under international competitive bidding procedures.
For equipment not financed by the Bank, the Bank will be
kept informed of all procurement actions and will receive bid
documents, evaluation reports and copies of contracts for



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
purchases valued at over $2 million. Contracts and
sub-contracts obtained by bidders from the European
Community would be financed by European lenders (EIB and
European bilateral sources) until those funds are exhausted.
The Bank loan would finance expenditures falling outside
the EEC (except those items for which the successful
bidder would be prepared to offer bilateral lending at
reasonable terms) as well as those falling within the
Community if European resources are exhausted. As bidding
proceeds, should it become evident that EIB funds or
European bilateral financing could not be fully utilized,
then bidding on certain goods would be restricted to bidding
within the Community to ensure that all funds will be
utilized.
Estimated Disbursements:            Millions of $
FY 1976     1977     1978    1979    1980    1981
Annual (TEK)    10.1       39.5    41.9    13.6     9.5     8.4
Annual (TKI)    3.5         8.8     7.5     3.7     1.0     0.5
Total      13.6       48.3     49.4    17.3    10.5     8.9
Accumulative    13.6       61.9   111.3   128.6   139.1   148.0
Technical
Assistance:    Feasibility studies were undertaken by a consortium of
consultants led by Fichtner of Germany, in association
with Rheinbraum Consulting (GmBH) of Germany, SOFRELEC
of France and Gemas of Turkey, with the role of the
consultants later expanded to include project management
and services to TKI for the mining works. The project
provides for further use of the consultants to assist
in procurement, construction, equipping, and starting up
of the project.
Rate of Return:  17.6 percent
Appraisal Report: Report Number 342-TU, dated June 13, 1974,
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Projects Department
Power and Energy Development Division.






T U R K E Y
ELECTRIFICATION PLAN
BULGARIA     N                           .                             _                                                               .
_ ( t--Xa B    /   A     C   K                                              S    F   A .
-e                                                                                                   < t 0 t . -s e .,-t _ t 1 \ , U S. S R
-        5~~~~~5DJR CA1U0                                                7
C                             Ev,e5z*^ ,AR j aOlu *,\, C:li,, - 2 ,   r o e r p _ s o   P.M L 5   --E rr 
f t  _  C   _                          /<-          '-4 OCO1:              -                       -_.      --
-. N
CO                    N       A     -                              0      -v,*P
> tt !6SOMA                                      /XedCA'                                           LOY; \ /r_1 < ~ N1AACt                  R A N
SEMOCOPRI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /                                              D~~~LJIN  AooorF;' IA;'~  -*ANR
e  --  i        -s~~~~~~BeF,kd lA\f,YS:kkr-qrs                                         Ad,,,,,,,  pGOLKOY   \       AsI 
~~~(1~~~~~  --                                                                        AA
c s',                                        O Yr'ul Xn zOVA3A!2-> \ O  E                         Pql AELAN1AS       T ,~~ h< ARx' \ klzle29 ~-gC G R  ANSAI   S TE   Q
L=,                          1.1*1ns  g \ ' G; ;1t'°;;'C)a; F; D                                              In  o  8  -OY-Tnl  Y^I4bDi-C' YDrD>
1 r ) .oMcrKg X APTL8A/9 HDdr OENrPLvESvIZL){l|<_r5YRI A'L
-- _ J_- -----f -t--                                                                                Hydro            Under IY   OPFO--nr0 o
j  <\ _  J s ,,      .   O ]; tIR__.r             r t                        ermo   1!1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ In opercotion  e 380 KVRF
,!                2       tF ~~~~~~Under Construction ____154 KV   i 
A  4z E   D   /  T  E R   R   A   N   E   A   N   S   E   A   ,C, ,, s . C s o:.   e . C                  zi:re r -l { .......... , OTE   Plonned  _T_N _   SYSKTV
R-      r,;"3*''t     ~      ...  '                   show  'red-r..                       -O °T sTn  Project  sonIn  r e _ 3uDsrarpons 



