                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 29298




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-43840)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$36.12 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                           FOR AN

                             URBAN PROPERTY RIGHTS PROJECT




                                       December 27, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol (S/.)
                                      S/.1.0 = US$ 0.30
                                    US$ 1.0 = S/3.30

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASBANC     Asociación Bancaria (Banking Association)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CIP        Central de Información Positiva (Positive Information Credit Bureau)
COFOPRI    Comisión de Formalización de la Propiedad Informal (Commission
           for the Formalization of Informal Property)
COFIDE     Corporación Financiera de Desarollo (Development Finance Corporation)
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
IGN        Instituto Geográfico Nacional (National Geographic Institute)
ILD        Instituto Libertad y Democracia (Institute of Liberty and Democracy)
INC        Instituto Nacional de Cultura (National Culture Institute)
INDECI     Instituto Nacional de Defensa Civil (National Civil Defense Institute)
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
MEF        Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MINJUS    Ministerio de Justicia (Ministry of Justice)
MVCS      Ministerio de Vivienda, Construcción y Saneamiento (Ministry of Housing,
          Construction and Sanitation)
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NFP        National Formalization Plan
NPV        Net Present Value
PCU        Project Coordinating Unit
PETT       Proyecto Especial de Titulación de Tierras (Special Project for Rural
           Land Titling)
PMS        Process Management System
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
QBS        Quality-Based Selection
QCBS       Quality-and-Cost Based Selection
RP         Registro de Predios (Real Property Registry)
RPI        Registro de Propiedad Inmueble (Immovable Property Registry)
RPU        Registro Predial Urbano (Urban Property Registry)
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SUNARP     Superintendencia Nacional de Registros Públicos (National Superintendency of
           Public Registries)
TF         Trust Fund
TOR        Terms of Reference

                 Vice President:  David De Ferranti
              Country Director    Marcelo M. Giugale
                Sector Director   Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David F. Varela

                                              PERU
                                Urban Property Rights Project


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                     Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   21
6. Sustainability                                                                       22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        23
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      25
9. Partner Comments                                                                     28
10. Additional Information                                                              28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   42
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report]                                                  44
Annex 9. Results on the Ground: "A short tour to the Urban Property Rights Project"     62

Project ID: P039086                                                  Project Name: Urban Property Rights Project
Team Leader: David F. Varela                                         TL Unit: LCCVE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Urban Property Rights Project                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-43840
   Country/Department: PERU                                                               Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/22/1996                                     Effective: 12/31/1998                12/31/1998
     Appraisal: 05/27/1998                                         MTR: 09/01/2001                  09/01/2001
      Approval: 08/06/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF PERU/COFOPRI (FORMALIZATION COMMISSION) AND
                                           RPU (URBAN REGISTRY)
                      Other Partners:      SUNARP

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:                Marcelo M. Giugale                             Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Guillermo Perry
Team Leader at ICR:             David F. Varela
ICR Primary Author:             David F. Varela; Sati Achath;
                                Veena Mayani; Kathrin
                                Plangemann; Juan Pablo Molina


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The main objective of this US$66.3 million project (financed by an IBRD Loan of US$38.0 million) was to
create a system assuring formal and sustainable rights to real property in selected, predominantly poor,
settlements in large urban areas, thereby creating greater security of ownership, which would enhance the
owners' welfare. To this end, the Project supported a National Formalization Plan (NFP) that included the
physical-legal regularization of urban property rights up to the issuance and registration of valid titles.
Through legal and regulatory reforms, and the development of long-term strategies, it aimed to strengthen
the agencies responsible for this program (Commission for the Formalization of Informal Property
[COFOPRI] and Urban Property Registry [RPU]), through improved coordination, enhanced
policy-making and implementing capacity.

The objective was clearly stated and tightly focused; it was also relevant for the country's social and
economic development, and realistic in scale and scope. The Project continued a longer, decade-old reform
process supported by the Bank and fully owned by the Government. The Project also aimed to apply a new
property formalization system on a larger scale in densely populated areas of urban Peru (see Box No.1).

The Project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Peru, discussed by the
Board on July 22, 1997 (Document No. 16796-PE). This strategy emphasized continued Bank support to
the Government's efforts to combat poverty by integrating the poor into the Peruvian society that placed
special emphasis on raising the quality and improving the access of the poor, inter alia, to effective
property ownership and full enjoyment of property rights. The Project directly supported the CAS by: (i)
assigning property rights and resolving conflicts among squatters (which reinforced State control in areas
that otherwise might be taken over by terrorist groups); (ii) increasing investments in housing development
(raising at the same time construction standards); and (iii) mobilizing formalized property in the market
(through subsequent transactions and the utilization of property as collateral).

After the Bank's catalytic role in promoting technical strategies for property formalization under a pilot
project implemented in Lima from 1992 to 1994 and subsequent policy dialogue, the Bank's continued
presence in the sector was expected to provide a guarantee of the technical quality of the NFP. The Project
also took into account lessons learned from the pilot project and Bank-financed projects in other countries:

(a) The policy and institutional framework was developed under the pilot project. On-the-ground proofs of
ownership, rather than expensive cadastral systems, were tested in the pilot. The legal framework was
developed with the participation of the owners/stakeholders. Thus it reflected the reality on the ground and
ensured that users would understand the formalization methods used by COFOPRI and RPU.

(b) The design of the NFP benefited from the experience of area-based campaigns under the pilot project.
For the first time in Peru, the Project introduced massive and expeditious procedures for regularizing
informal settlements and engaged the active participation of civil society. This participation reinforced the
consensus about the reforms and neutralized opposing interest groups.

(c) The component on effective property organizations reflected the lessons learned under the pilot project
about the effectiveness of independent agencies and about the significance of public education under the
Thailand Land Regularization Projects. The Project's organizational features also reflected the conclusions
of a 1992 Bank review of rural titling projects about poor performance due to lack of political support,
conflicting bureaucratic priorities, lack of institutional capacity, and complex multiple objectives .
                                                                                                    1




             Box No. 1 ­ ILD and Property Reforms in the 80's and 90's




                                                             - 2 -

             Since the 1940s urban migration radically altered the structure of Peruvian cities. Migrants from rural areas
             were largely excluded by the established legal system especially from access to land and housing. Migrants
             responded by establishing informal settlements, that by 1995 represented more than 1.5 million informal urban
             properties located in the eight largest urban centers. To deal with this issue, several reforms were proposed by
             the Institute of Liberty and Democracy (ILD) and endorsed by successive Peruvian Governments. Such reforms
             were based on the assumption that the development of a market economy requires: (i) property rights to be
             defined, recognized and protected in order to allow titleholders to use them efficiently through market
             mechanisms; (ii) a system of property rights whose information flows smoothly among market agents allows the
             generation of real estate markets, which in turn may be the base of capital markets; and (iii) clear property rights
             empower titleholders to interact within a market and mobilize assets in the most convenient and efficient way2.



             The main causes of informality in Peru were: (i) a normative system with laws and institutions unable to define,
             recognize and protect property rights; (ii) the lack of an effective incentive system; and (iii) the lack of an
             adequate connection between titling, registries and cadastres. Most of the norms regarding property were issued
             in a centralized manner, not taking into account users practices (lack of feedback); neither information and
             accountability mechanisms existed (lack of transparency); and users did not have access to mechanisms to make
             accountable decision-makers on titling or registration matters (lack of accountability). Furthermore, most of the
             titling, registration or cadastre programs had been limited, and did not address the real issues. Some programs
             were only focused on the generation of cadastres, while others tried to improve property registries. They were
             not part of a broader long-term strategy to allow the assets accumulated by the poorest sectors to be mobilized a
             market economy through an effective property rights system.

             During the 1980s, ILD analyzed the economic relevance of informal settlements, and the direct impact of the
             costly and complex procedures that settlers had to undergo to obtain a legal title. It estimated that the average
             cost of property formalization was US$2,156 and took approximately 6 years. ILD generated consensus among
             the political parties and civil society about the introduction of legal and institutional reforms that could solve the
             problem of property informality. Simplified processes to formalize irregular tenure were developed in Lima
             since the late 1980s. In 1988, a law was passed to establish a new property registry, Registro Predial de
             Pueblos Jóvenes y Urbanizaciones Populares (Real Estate Registry of Informal Settlements and Popular
             Urbanizations). This registry introduced for the first time in Peru a property rights system that recognized
             community-based extra-legal norms and practices, utilized simplified procedures and a parcel-based records.

             Nevertheless, before the 1996 reforms, the Peruvian State addressed informality through various strategies
             ranging from absolute repression to benign neglect. Property rights recognition sporadically occurred, but no
             institutional and legal framework was introduced to effectively incorporate informal owners into a market
             system. After a successful pilot project executed by ILD with Bank financial assistance, Legislative Decree 803
             of 1996 established COFOPRI and the registry created in 1998 became RPU. COFOPRI took over the
             functions and responsibilities of municipal governments in connection with the physical-legal regularization of
             urban informal properties. In 1998, the Bank approved the Project to support the implementation of the NFP
             based on the legal framework provided by Decree 803.


(d) On sequencing, two lessons learned were followed: First, the experience of other countries suggested
that macroeconomic stabilization and sectoral reforms to eliminate distortions in property markets are
preconditions for an effective demand for formalization. Second, investments in valuation systems for tax
purposes should come later (this had been the explicit approach of the Thailand projects), at a time when
beneficiaries, already profiting from formalization, had gained enough trust in the State not to see
formalization as merely a precursor to taxation and property markets had been functioning long enough for
prices to be less distorted.

The Project envisioned the following economic and social benefits:

(a) Economic benefits: Greater security of ownership would allow a more efficient use of property
(reflected in higher property values). Greater efficiency would come from higher investment in the property
and/or the use of property in subsequent market transactions, including land sales and/or the use of
property as collateral for mortgages.

(b) Social benefits: Property formalization would enable excluded populations to gain access to public
utilities and other State services, and help secure the position of women, who enjoy equality in property
rights with men under the law. In addition, the Project aimed to increase the quality of life of families living
on the properties targeted for formalization. This covered an estimated four million people.


                                                                       - 3 -

While the design of the Project was not complex per se, it was demanding in terms of the implementation
capacity that was required: (i) to develop appropriate policy proposals that could be endorsed by the
Peruvian Congress to deal with institutional and legal constraints to property formalization; (ii) to conduct
sophisticated technical evaluations in order to determine the appropriate technology for mapping and other
activities related to mass titling; (iii) to develop new participation and consensus-building approaches to
respond to beneficiaries' preferences and priorities. In addition, to avoid the frustration of past efforts, the
Project developed a new methodology and technology for titling to enable the Government to provide a
rapid and adequate solution to titling demands; and (iv) to overcome vested interests opposed to the Project
(notaries, politically affiliated leaders in marginal communities, bureaucracies in traditional government
institutions).

3.2 Revised Objective:

While the original objective of the Project was not revised, the geographic coverage was expanded and the
closing date was extended. The Project originally covered eight major informal urban areas (Lima,
Chiclayo, Chimbote, Piura, Trujillo, Arequipa, Huaraz, and Iquitos). However, due to increased social
demand from informal settlements, the geographical scope of the Project was expanded in June 2001 to
cover six additional urban areas (Ayacucho, Ica, Junin, Moquegua, Tacna, and Ucayali).                  Given
COFOPRI and RPU's proven technical, organizational, and human resource capacity and regular
counterpart funding, increased coverage did not jeopardize project objectives.

At the request of the Government, the closing date was extended for a period of twelve months until June
30, 2004. The Bank determined that the extension was justified by reforms that improved the policy
framework for real property markets in Peru: (a) decentralization of formalization activities through
Provincial Formalization Commissions headed by the local mayors; (b) unification of existing parallel
property registry systems into a single Real Estate Property Registry (RP) under the National
Superintendency of Public Registries (SUNARP); and (c) legal reforms to implement a National Cadastre
System to harmonize cadastre standards and integrate geographical and legal data. The Bank and the
Government agreed to realign some activities to respond to the opportunities generated by the legal and
regulatory reforms.




                                                      - 4 -

                                           Map No.1




3.3 Original Components:

Component 1: Urban Property Market Reforms (US$1.16 million)

This component supported a series of legal and regulatory reforms to sustain and deepen property markets.
These reforms promoted a formal urban property market and were based on Decree Laws 495, 496 (1988)
and 803 (1996) that had established the framework for formalization and the milestones governing the
process. Three sub-components structured project-financed activities:

(i) Legal and Institutional Framework - US $0.34 million

The objective of this sub-component was to improve the formalization process by decreasing transaction
costs. This implied continuously addressing legal and regulatory issues in connection with: (a) property
recognition, so that new types of informality were dealt with; (b) land administration - disposition of State
properties in urban areas; and (c) maintaining low transaction costs so that beneficiaries of formalization
do not revert to informality.

(ii) Investment Promotion - US$0.28 million

This sub-component was designed to study the opportunities for enhancing the market use of the property
rights. The aim was to identify bottlenecks caused by legal rules, other than those involved in the
recognition of the formal property rights, which could result in missed market opportunities.

(iii) Social and Economic Monitoring- US$0.54 million

The aim of this sub-component was to learn more about the economic and social benefits of property



                                                   - 5 -

formalization under the Project, and to identify and develop proposals to remove obstacles to realizing the
Project's objectives. In order to gauge the impact of this Project, the sub-component would provide
qualitative and quantitative insights into the economic and social, private and public effects that could
result from property formalization. The sub-component would also provide feedback to the implementing
agencies by: (i) monitoring that the private costs of using COFOPRI and RPU for property-related
transactions do not pose a barrier to access; (ii) identifying factors (such as taxes, regulation or information
deficiencies) which could raise the cost of using formalized property in markets; and (iii) determining
whether community or Government action could tackle some of these factors.

Component 2: National Organizations for Urban Property (US$13.07 million)

This component was designed to strengthen the organizations responsible for the NFP, in their
administrative and institutional capacities, including training and human resource management. The
following four sub-components supported this process:

(i) Strengthening of RPU Administration- US$5.17 million

The objective of this sub-component was to provide RPU with technical assistance to strengthen its
registration systems. Activities included recruiting international expertise to develop methodologies and
procedures in the following areas: (a) RPU long-term strategy; (b) information technology related to
mapping standards, management systems, information transfer from the Registry of Immovable Property
(RPI) to RPU within the formalization process; and (c) customer relations and services policy.

(ii) Strengthening of COFOPRI Administration US$1.34 million

The objective of this sub-component was to strengthen COFOPRI's administration and scale it up to an
optimal capacity to successfully process the targeted objective of formalizing 960,000 properties in selected
urban areas. The activities included in this sub-component aimed to continue the work already started
during the pilot project, and were designed to build on existing accumulated experience.

(iii) Institutional Development of COFOPRI and RPU - US$1.16 million

The objective of this sub-component was to develop mechanisms for the institutional development of
COFOPRI and RPU as efficient, independent agencies. This sub-component aimed to make COFOPRI and
RPU effective, accountable, and sustainable in the long-term. To this end, activities were designed to: (a)
develop and establish public accountability mechanisms; (b) propose an optimal degree of budgetary and
administrative autonomy for the two agencies; (c) create mechanisms to promote client responsiveness,
including consultations with the public on proposed reforms; (d) study how the two registries (RPU and
RPI) would operate in the future, and propose a long-term strategy; and (e) define the long-term strategy of
COFOPRI.

(iv) Human Resource Development - US$1.27 million

The objective of this sub-component was to develop knowledge management in COFOPRI and RPU, as
well as a human resources management strategy for the two organizations. Two major training programs
were proposed, for registrars, managers and technical staff, in order to introduce and transfer specific
knowledge on registry systems, mapping surveying and overall management.

(v) Project Management - US$4.13 million


                                                      - 6 -

Standard project management activities were supported under this component (procurement, disbursements
and financial management).

Component 3: Conversion of Existing Informal Property - US$ 52.06 million

This component aimed at the rapid conversion of informally-owned property to secure property rights. It
required the documentation of all formalization processes, recruiting of technical staff and execution of
field campaigns.

(i) Collection and Analysis of Ownership-Related Information -US$0.44 million

The objective of this sub-component was to allow COFOPRI to collect, review, and substantiate
property-related data. This activity provided technical assistance to support the scaling up of formalization
activities. Property-related data was to be collected from a number of Government agencies, municipalities
and individual property owners and occupants. All of the relevant information for each property to be
formalized was to be included in a physical-legal regularization process. Specifically, this subcomponent
financed: (a) the completion of the computerized process management system (PMS) that documented and
computerized formalization processes 0, 1 and 2 ; (b) a series of internal and external technical audits to be
                                                                   6


carried out on data collected and data computer storage during the NFP.
                                                               Figure No.1
                                  FORMALIZATION PROCESS - Legislative Decree. 803


                           PROCESS 0:                  PROCESS 1:                                               PROCESS 2:
                         INFORMALITY                  COMPREHENSIVE                                             INDIVIDUAL
                          DIAGNOSTIC                  FORMALIZATION
                                                                                Physical Analysis             FORMALIZATION

                                                                            -- INDECI (Risk Zones)
                                                                            - INC (Archaeological Sites)
                                                                                Legal Analysis                 TOWNHALL
                           GENERAL                       LEGAL              - RPM                              MEETINGS
                          INFORMALITY                 DIAGNOSTIC            - PETT
                           INVENTORY                                        - Judicial Branch
                                                                            - RPI                            HOUSE BY HOUSE
                                                                            - SBN                              OWNERS´ CENSUS


                                                                                 - Map Preparation               EVIDENCE OF
                           PRELIMINARY                 PHYSICAL                                                   POSSESSION
                        CADASTRE BASE                 DESCRIPTION                - Registry (RPU)

                                                                                                             INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY
                                                                                                                    TITLES


                                                                                                                REGISTRATION




                             TERMS APROX. 45 DAYS AND COST PER TITLE APROX. US$ 50

                              10 days                    20 days                                   15 days




(ii) Implementation of the NFP - US$51.62 million

The objective of this sub-component was to register 960,000 properties and issue 805,500 titles in the
selected urban areas. The activity financed: (a) contractors required to implement the NFP in the selected
urban areas; (b) goods, including computers and the establishment of provincial offices of COFOPRI and
RPU; (c) mapping services and mapping products; (d) base mapping; and (e) development of graphical
indices, and computer programming.

3.4 Revised Components:

During project implementation, the components remained the same, although two reallocations among
eligible categories of items to be financed were approved to facilitate implementation.



                                                                         - 7 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. Quality at entry was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), which gave a highly
satisfactory rating for Project concept, objectives and approach, and a satisfactory rating on overall quality.
The ICR also deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory.

Project design reflected a highly innovative and research-driven approach. ILD's research showed the
economic significance of the so-called informal owners, as well as the complexity of the procedures that
had to be followed in order to obtain a title. The pilot project allowed the collection of valuable
information, and the design and implementation of further reforms towards efficient property formalization.
This learning-by-doing process was later used as one of the main tools of the Project and helped to identify
additional operational obstacles that were removed through new legal and institutional reforms or processes
reengineering .
              7




Since COFOPRI had developed the technical capacity during the pilot, the quality of Project design was
consistent with COFOPRI's ability to meet the Project's objective. Both the Bank and the Borrower
invested sufficient time and money in designing the Project. Internal processes were strictly followed and
allowed ex-ante solutions to potential problems. In addition, during preparation, the Project recognized and
took into account risk factors, which could affect implementation and incorporated mitigating measures
into the design.

Consultation and participation techniques were used extensively, both in the design of the new system of
property rights and in the day-to-day implementation of the NFP. For example, when the regulations for the
recognition and titling of human settlements were being drafted, there was a broad public debate that
involved grassroots organizations and interested citizens. The legal framework for the new system ­ Decree
Laws 495 and 496, which admitted customary proofs of ownership in the definition of property rights -
emerged from this debate. A similar approach was used in the preparation of Decree Law 803 in 1996.
Extensive stakeholder consultations and the participatory process in project preparation thus substantially
contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The Project achieved the stated objective and went beyond original expectations. It benefited
primarily squatters living in precarious conditions in urban and semi-urban areas. As of June 2004, more
than 1.2 million properties were registered and about 920,000 property titles were issued. The Project also
benefited more than 4.6 million Peruvians, mobilized about $400 million in formal credit to marginal
communities, and increased the value of formalized property by about US$523 million.

The Project was successful because it promoted the adoption of an institutional reform strategy that
generated a broad consensus among the Government to: (i) generate a massive titling, cadastre and
registration program, based on simplified procedures and low transaction costs, as well as responsible
proactive institutions; (ii) concentrate functions and responsibilities related to the formalization program
into a single agency; and (iii) neutralized vested public and private interests that opposed any reform to the
current titling, registries and cadastre system because they profited from the high transaction costs to
access formal property rights.



                                                     - 8 -

                                                              Figure No. 2
                                SUBSEQUENT TRANSACTIONS REGISTRATION (Average Duration in days)

                               60


                                    50        48        49         49        49        49          49
                               50



                               40



                           aysD30



                               20


                                       10
                               10
                                                  6  6                                             4  6   6
                                                           3  4        3 4      3  4        4   4

                                0


                                      Goal      1999      2000       2001      2002        2003       2004



                                                Títle              Mortgage           Sales




A major outcome of the Project was achieving a cost-effective formalization model: the Project covered
various informal urban settlements including Human Settlements, Popular Urbanizations and Housing
Cooperatives. As opposed to the traditional titling/registration models, COFOPRI implemented a pro-active
formalization model in selected geographic areas based on the generation of economies of scale that
allowed the average cost of each title issued to be reduced substantially. In addition, the Project developed
strategies and mechanisms to structure community participation as an integral element of the formalization
process. Duration was fixed in 50 days for the overall formalization process (titling and registration), and
10 days for the recording of mortgages and subsequent transactions. During project implementation,
duration standards were observed and even exceeded .             8




Significant socio-economic outcomes of the Project were the following:

a) Social stability: The main benefit of the NFP was the legal security provided by the property title
(according to 62% of the titleholders) followed by using the title as a collateral for a loan (32,4% of the
titleholders). Likewise, 78% of titleholders believed that the property title gave more security to real estate
tenure . Legal security improved the quality of life of beneficiary families, especially of women and
       9


children. State presence in poor areas has been consolidated; poor urban dwellers have recognized the
State interest in addressing one of their most pressing needs.

b) Access to public utilities: Legal security of property is allowing families to access public utilities
(electricity, water, and telephone services). Service providers are now able to better identify and assess the
potential users. According to the Project Survey, homes with property titles have more access to public
utilities than informal possessions.

c) Increased investments in home improvement, property values and subsequent transactions: The Project
survey suggests a major impact of formalization on home investments: (i) 75% of the formalized population
invested in home improvements while only 39% of non-formalized invested; and (ii) the number of rooms
per house increased by approximately 20% in human settlements; and families with property titles have
more rooms in their homes and higher construction standards .
                               10                                              11




A qualitative survey of the real estate markets financed by the Project found that COFOPRI beneficiaries
consider that formalization increased the value of their property between 20% and 30%. Likewise, the



                                                                - 9 -

survey established that 64% of the families that have received property titles believed that the title increased
the value of their property. This perception was validated by another project study concluded in December
2003 which found that the marginal impact of a property title in each parcel is approximately US$925.00.
Because the average value of each lot formalized under the Project is approximately US$3,680.00, this
represents an increase of about 25% or a total impact of more than US$523 million. Subsequent property
                                                               12


transactions, recorded in RPU (sales, sub divisions, exchanges, inheritance, etc.) have passed from 58,000
in 1999 to 136,000 in 2003 (a 134% increase).



                                                                                         Figure No. 3


                                        Credits ­ June 2004                                           Mortages ­ June 2004
                  US$                                                                                                                                  US$
                                                                                                                                         136'          Accumulated =
                                                                                                    Millions                                           464 US$
                                                                                        388'
                                                                            372'
                                                                                                     140                         106'
                        Millions                                 314'
                        400                          275'                                            120                                         84'
                        350               249'                                                                           73'
                        300                                                                          100          66'

                        250
                                                                                                      80
                        200

                        150                                                                           60

                        100
                                                                                                      40
                        50

                         0                                                                            20
                                 Dic-00     Dic-01     Dic-02      Dic-03     Jun-04
                                                                                                       0
                  USERS                                                                                     2000   2001   2002     2003    2004
                                                                                                                                                       USERS
                                                                                                                                                       Accumulated=
                                                                                237,        246,

                                                                                                    Thousands                               21,
                                                                                                                                   19,                 73,000
                        Thousands                                  197,                               25

                         250                          174,                                                                15,
                                           154,                                                       20
                         200
                                                                                                                  10,
                                                                                                      15                                             8,
                         150


                         100                                                                          10



                           50                                                                         5


                            0
                                   Dic-00      Dic-01      Dic-02      Dic-03       Jun-04            0
                                                                                                             2000    2001    2002     2003     2004




d) Other Economic Benefits: Several surveys were carried out under the Project to measure other economic
impacts of the NFP, which suggest that many of the expected benefits were achieved:


        d.1) Access to credit and use of real estate property as collateral : As of December 2003, the use                                 13


of mortgages as collateral and the number and amounts of credits have grown substantially: Mortgages: (i)
the number of mortgages registered has increased 106% between 2000 and 2003, with yearly increases of
10%, 45% and 28% respectively; (ii) mortgages amount increased from US$66 millions in 2000 to
US$136 millions in 2003; and (iii) from total amount of mortgages constituted between 2000-2003, 80%
were constituted for the benefit of private financial institutions. Credits: Credits granted by the formal
financial system have increased by 47% in three years (December 2000-December 2003), from US$249
millions to US$367 millions; while the number of credits granted has grown 53% in the same period (from
154,000 to 235,000). Despite this success, only 45% of the potential market has been reached (people
having formal income and property titles) , probably because financial institutions have not tapped all the
                                                                             14


potential of the recently formalized sector. (See Figure No.3)




                                                                                                 - 10 -

                                                    Figure No.4
                                   GENDER ASPECTS ­ Annual percentage of
                                   total individual beneficiaries who are women

                               100%


                                90%


                                80%


                                70% 67,41%  67,57%
                                                   63,68%  65,62%         66,50%
                                                                  64,60%

                                60%


                                50%
                                      1999   2000    2001    2002   2003   2004




         d.2) Increase in the number of hours available to work or study: Although it was not originally
included among the benefits expected from the Project, an independent research on the impact of titling on
labor supply found that: (i) formalization, contrary to other State assistance programs, allows an easier
             15


access of the beneficiary population to the formal labor market; (ii) the Project reduced the need to generate
income at home because it allowed the beneficiaries to look for a formal job or one having a higher
productivity out of home; and (iii) formalization is associated with a 17% increase in the labor hours of
beneficiary families and with a 47% decrease in the probability of working at home. This social effect may
be explained because formalization eliminated the continuous state of alert against possible eviction or
usurpation. This had an important impact on women and children who are primarily responsible for
guarding the property. Women could potentially look for a remunerated job or a more productive job
outside their home, and children could potentially dedicate more time to school activities.

e) Other Social Benefits: Another positive effect was the incidence of titling in reducing child work demand
16. Also, from the total beneficiaries of the formalization program (whether individual titleholders or
co-owners) women represent slightly more than 50%. Nevertheless, when focusing on individual owners,
more than 66% are women (See Figure 4)
                           17




4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Reforms to the Urban Property System.

(i) Legal and Regulatory Framework.

Activities carried out under this sub-component significantly strengthened the normative framework for
property formalization, developed and implemented alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, and adapted
the Project to changes in Government policies. The resulting legal and regulatory framework covered a
wide range of tenure categories, promoted the active resolution of problems affecting the urban poor, and
was grounded in an understanding of informal local practices and customs.

(a) Strengthened the legal and regulatory framework underpinning the formalization process. Several key
legal and regulatory reforms were successfully advanced by the Project to streamline and strengthen the
urban land regularization process, and to improve and standardize registration procedures. The Project led
the change process for modernizing the institutional framework for property rights in Peru through: (a)




                                                       - 11 -

creation of Provincial Formalization Commissions to decentralize formalization activities at the provincial
level after 2001; and (b) unification of the parallel real property registry systems into a single RP under
SUNARP. Several reforms were also advanced by the Project to streamline the formalization processes and
reduce transaction costs: (a) integration of survey data defining the spatial dimensions of a parcel with legal
data defining the nature and basis of land rights; (b) standardization of data management; (c) introduction
of a single parcel identifier; and (d) establishment of limitations to retrospective searches to prove title.
Quality control mechanisms were also introduced to ensure the quality of registry information.

(b) Applied a learning-by-doing approach to legal and regulatory change. The Project supported an
on-the-ground approach to ownership verification rather than a more expensive design that would have
relied mostly on technology. While implementing this approach, COFOPRI developed the capacity to
continuously improve reforms through a series of incremental changes based on a learning-by-doing
approach. The drafting of new laws was linked to formalization processes (0, 1 and 2) which ensured that
experiences and lessons learned at the field level were incorporated into the normative framework. For
example, as the formalization process advanced, COFOPRI, through inputs from field staff and community
representatives, uncovered new forms of informality that were not identified in the pilot project, like "
pueblos tradicionales" (ancient informal settlements in Arequipa) . COFOPRI and RPU worked together
                                                                     18


to develop legally sound and efficient solutions to these problems. New procedures were developed and
tested at the organizational level and once validated, incorporated into the legal framework.

Similarly, differences in family structures were also identified at the field level (informal marriages,
de-facto headships). To respond to these differences, new rules and procedures had to be developed. As a
result, the Project helped implement co-ownership property rights among couples, whether in formal or
common-law marriage and individual property rights to de-facto single head of households (mostly
women). In this manner, the Project helped ensure that the possession rights of both women and men were
formalized.

(ii) Investment Promotion

This subcomponent was designed to carry out studies to analyze the factors that constrained the market use
of formalized property titles. To determine how best to enhance access to credit and promote investment
within the formalized sector, several diagnostic and policy studies were conducted. The findings and
recommendations from the studies were evaluated and systematized to produce an integrated and
multi-sectoral reform strategy and guiding action plan . Some of the elements of the reform agenda
                                                           19


exceeded the scope of the Project because they required the active participation of a number of public
agencies other than COFOPRI and SUNARP/RPU . Taking a more prudent approach, COFOPRI focused
                                                     20


on a single aspect strategy and developed new products and services to foster a credit culture and establish
links with the private sector.

Providing informational services to facilitate the supply of financial services.        To capitalize on the
enormous amount of data (socio-economic and geographical) produced through systematic titling and
registration, COFOPRI developed a geo-referenced information system called the Central de Información
Positiva or CIP. The specific objective of CIP was to promote access to credit by reducing costs incurred
by micro-finance institutions and commercial banks in determining the creditworthiness of potential
borrowers within the formalized sector.

Construction of the database, which included data reliability verification, was a meticulous process that
required a one-year period. RPU registry records and COFOPRI data were contrasted with the existing



                                                    - 12 -

databases of public and private organizations to identify and verify information related to the population
recently formalized. Demographic, employment, and financial information of potential interest to financial
entities was analyzed and subsequently integrated and standardized with COFOPRI and RPU data
(alphanumeric and geographical data) . The legal framework, including customer protection issues, was
                                      21


also analyzed.

COFOPRI negotiated agreements with a number of financial entities for CIP services.            Information
providers were able to access CIP free of charge. Fees were dependent on the volume of information
required, together with the frequency and extent of data supplied.         CIP proved to be an important
evaluation tool for the Project. An analysis of data between 2000 and 2003 showed an increase in the
number and amount of formal credit supplied to the formalized sector . (See Table 1)
                                                                             22                 While this
information did not necessarily show causality, it demonstrated that access to credit has improved for
Project beneficiaries. CIP data can also be disaggregated by sex of approved applicant, region/department,
and loan status.

                                                  Table 1
                              Evolution of credit supplied in the formalized sector


        Year            Amount of Credit                          No. of Credit
                            Supplied                              Applications
                                                                  Approved
                            (in US$)             % increase                                % increase
        2000               249,000,000              ------23             154,000                --
        2001               274,000,000              10.0                 173,000              12.3
        2002               313,000,000              14.2                 197,000              13.9
        2003               372,000,000              18.8                 237,000              20.3
                 Source: CIP

Improving the financial decision-making capacity of the urban poor.              The Project developed a
capacity-building pilot program known as CREDICRECE, which was carried out in two phases benefiting
a total of 13,146 project beneficiaries. The first phase was carried out over a period of seven months
between September 2002 and March 2003 and consisted of 140 workshops in Metropolitan Lima. Nearly
4000 micro entrepreneurs formalized by COFOPRI participated in the workshops, of which 57.7% were
women. Fifty-five percent (55%) of the participants were between the ages of 25-45 and 87.5% were
active in the informal economy . 24   Participants responded favorably to the workshops and requested
follow-up training. Building on the lessons learned from the first phase, a second phase of CREDICRECE
was launched between 2003 and June 2004 in Lima, Arequipa, Trujillo, Chiclayo, Tacna, Ica, Huancayo
and Piura. A total of 177 training workshops were carried out in which 9,146 Project beneficiaries
participated, of which 63% were women. Workshop evaluation showed a 16-12.5% increase in knowledge
levels among participants .
                         25




To develop links with the financial sector, microfinance institutions were invited to participate and share
information on the type of services they offer. At the time of project closing, six information-sharing
agreements were signed between COFOPRI and financial entities . Microfinance institutions responded
                                                                     26


favorably to CREDICRECE and provided specific feedback to improve the program which included: (a)
scale up CREDICRECE in partnership with microenterprise associations, universities, and other
non-governmental organizations already working in the communities; and (b) promote the development of



                                                   - 13 -

social intermediation programs within microfinance institutions to complement the work of
CREDICRECE.

New entry points to promote local investment. COFOPRI implemented training workshops titled "Base
Catastral de Propiedad Urbana, una herramienta para el desarrollo local" in Piura, Chiclayo, Trujillo,
Iquitos, Arequipa and Ancash. Workshop participants included district and provincial municipal officials,
technical staff of MVCS, and representatives of SUNARP. Topics covered during the workshop included
the methodology COFOPRI applied to develop a urban legal cadastre and efforts needed to transform it
into a multipurpose one, and how a cadastre can be a tool for regional planning, local development,
enhanced transportation, environmental planning, citizen security, and revenue collection.

The Project also carried out a pilot program to: (a) test and develop methods to transform COFOPRI's
urban legal cadastre to multipurpose one, in partnership with local governments; and (b) analyze the
feasibility of regularizing urban constructions. The pilot program covered four human settlements in three
provinces and worked on 1,109 properties. The pilot: (a) analyzed the existing legal framework and
identified necessary regulatory or legal reforms; (b) defined the specific information that need to be
incorporated into the registry system to upgrade the legal cadastre; (c) developed mechanisms to work in
partnership with local government; (d) developed methodologies to facilitate field work (simplified
processes, systematic or sporadic regularization, role of the private sector, etc); and (e) conducted a rapid
cost-benefit analysis.

(iii) Socio Economic Monitoring.

The studies and household surveys carried out under this subcomponent significantly improved the
Government's understanding of the social and economic benefits of property formalization (see 4.1).
Important databases were developed to: (a) facilitate the analysis of the medium and long-term impact of
property formalization; and (b) monitor changes in property values in urban markets. The subcomponent
identified critical knowledge gaps among the beneficiary population and the private sector, which in turn
led to the development of CIP, CREDICRECE and the registry culture campaign (discussed below).

Component 2. Organizational and Institutional Strengthening

(i)      Strengthening of RPU Administration

Simplified and accessible registry system. The Project transformed RPU from a small-scale registry to a
larger-scale modern registry with wider geographic coverage, capable of meeting the registration demands
of the NFP. The RPU model provided effective legal security, promoted the development of a formal
property market (through reduced transaction costs and attention to user needs), and facilitated access to
registry services by the poor. Key characteristics of the system include simplified registration procedures,
streamlined workflow processes, an automated land records management system that integrated cadastre
and registry data, an accessible fee structure, and timely response times. Altogether, RPU adopted a
proactive organizational culture committed to facilitating property transactions for the urban poor and
providing property information to the market.

One of the key innovations introduced by RPU was the use of simplified forms as recordable titles; the
forms contained only the standard information required to determine property rights: identification of the
real property, the parties to the contract and the rights that are the subject matter of the transaction. The
review and certification process was open to lawyers in addition to notaries, which eliminated the
traditional monopoly exercised by notaries. The result was a substantial reduction in the transaction costs


                                                    - 14 -

for the users and also for the registry. The standardized forms substantially reduced interpretation and
transcription errors . Another innovation was the elimination of all registration requirements that do not
                     27


constitute evidence of property rights (i.e. taxes or social security contributions). The result was a
substantial reduction in the transaction costs for the users and also for the registry.

Registry unification: A study was carried out to identify the strengths and weaknesses of RPU and RPI,
develop a policy vision, and propose a strategy for unification . The study identified a number of issues in
                                                                                    28


the Peruvian registration system associated with the parallel existence of two registries (RPU and RPI): (a)
inefficient resource allocation, user confusion, and inability to create a critical mass of coherent data for
public dissemination; (b) inaccuracy of the registry records due to lack of a cadastral-based system in RPI
which increases the risks of overlapping rights and duplicate records; (c) a non-proactive service pattern in
RPI that contrasted with the low-cost, user friendly design of RPU; and (d) high transaction costs due to
different registration requirements and inefficient operations in parallel organizations.

The study recommended the integration of RPU and RPI and the establishment of a single registry of real
property in Peru. This integration would address directly the issues common to both organizations that
would be hard to tackle if managed independently and would: (a) develop a cadastral base for RPI records;
(b) reduce operational costs by sharing fixed administrative costs, eliminating duplicate activities, and
generating economies of scale through increased productivity; and (c) help promote a registry culture by
eliminating the confusing dual system.

While the initial scope of the registry unification study was limited to developing a strategic plan, the
opportunity to actually move forward on registry unification came with the passage of Law No. 27755 of
May 29, 2002 that created RP. The law mandated the unification of the real property registries under the
supervision of SUNARP and the gradual merger of the two property registries RPU, RPI and the Special
Section of Rural Lands in RP. The law established a Commission to coordinate the administrative and
technical aspects of the integration process. This Commission, chaired by SUNARP, included
representatives of COFOPRI, RPU, Special Project for Rural Land Titling (PETT), the Notaries
Association and the Lawyers Associations.

To respond to the new policy framework, Project activities were realigned to support the creation of RP .                          29


A pilot project was carried out in Ica and Arequipa to analyze the procedural aspects of registry
unification. The pilot reviewed, modified or validated the capacity building programs that had been
designed by SUNARP, the quality controls that would have to be in place and the efficiency indicators.


                                      Box No. 2 - Registration Culture: Three Complementary Approaches

                 (a)         Advocacy and public communication to build alliances with key actors in the community at large
                 (local and national level) who could be effective and legitimate "message carriers". Workshops were organized
                 with the media and various interests groups. Traditional communication means (radio, print media) were used
                 to target formalized sectors. Since radio was proven to be an effective communication medium for low-income
                 groups in Peru, informational programs were aired in Peru's main radio stations on the benefits of property
                 registration.

                 (b)         Education campaigns at the community level to raise awareness and change attitudes about
                 property registration. To that end, 12 registration fairs (ferias registrales) were implemented which covered
                 Metropolitan Lima (north, southern and eastern cones), Iquitos, Chimbote, Trujillo, Arequipa, Piura, and
                 Chiclayo. A total of 28,080 newly formalized property owners and their households participated in the ferias
                 registrales, of which nearly 60% were women30. Several learning modules were implemented including
                 popular theater, interactive learning games, and informational kiosks31.

                 (c)         Interpersonal and group education sessions were conducted at community base organizations and
                 in municipal establishments. The educational sessions used adult-education tools, participatory facilitation,
                 and case studies based on the real life experiences of the participants. Written materials were distributed so




                                                                   - 15 -

                 that participants could share the information with their families and social networks. In total, 480 educational
                 sessions were carried out in 13 cities with a total of 19,200 participants. Once the registration campaign was
                 completed, the Arequipa registry office carried out four smaller scale registry fairs and programmed weekly
                 educational talks with the population. Similarly, the Iquitos registry office also carried out its own educational
                 sessions. The training materials provided by the Project were adapted to meet local needs and to reflect local
                 customs.




Promoting a registration culture: COFOPRI and SUNARP worked together to implement an innovative
education and communication program to promote a registration culture in Peru. The objective of the
program was to inform and educate the population formalized by COFOPRI on the benefits of formality
and the importance of registering modifications in property rights. The program was designed to address
informational barriers to property registration that were identified in previous studies conducted by the
Project . The campaign was implemented on a pilot basis in 14 cities from December 2002 to May 2003
       32


and then again between December 2003 and June 2004. The success of the program was measured not
only by the number of participants, but also by the changes in knowledge and attitudes about the benefits of
registration, the type of property transactions that should be registered and where users should go to
register such transactions. To implement this program, 535 SUNARP and COFOPRI professionals were
trained. (See Box No.2)

The registration culture campaigns represented a completely different way of interacting with the
formalized sector. To be able to support the continued implementation of these new methods, but more
importantly to monitor changes in perceptions, knowledge and attitudes, an evaluation component was
integrated into the campaign from the start. A baseline survey was conducted in 2002 followed by a
comparative survey in 2003. The survey of 1,315 people in 2003 showed significant improvements in
people's knowledge about property registration and what transactions subject to registration. Selected
2002 and 2003 indicators are presented in Table 2 .               33




                                                                  Table 2
                              Indicators of the impact of registration culture campaigns

                                                                           June 2002                      August 2003
                                                                            n=1540                           n=1315
           Know that property transactions have to                           28.4%                            51.5%
                 be registered in SUNARP
             Can identify 1-3 benefits of property                           11.2%                            32.6%
                           registration
           Intends to register property transactions                        10.5 %                            32.0%


(ii) COFOPRI

Strengthened COFOPRI's capacity to manage and implement the NFP.                                                The Project successfully
strengthened COFOPRI's capacity to implement the formalization model on a national scale. Recognizing
the complex nature of the formalization process, COFOPRI created inter-disciplinary teams comprising
community promoters, lawyers, engineers and architects that integrated a common vision for regular
interaction with project beneficiaries during fieldwork. The development of adequate technical support tools
ensured the success of this approach: (a) a parcel-based real property identification system, based on the
official mapping system of the National Geographic Institute (IGN), that contains aerial-photographic
information. Through photogrammetric restitution techniques and terrestrial control activities, these maps
were adapted to the scale needed for formalization in urban areas; and (b) an automatic information
processing system through which the databases used for the massive formalization processes were


                                                                    - 16 -

generated. These databases were also integrated through an internal communication network between
COFOPRI's headquarters and local offices that allowed increased efficiency levels.

(iii) Institutional Development

Adapting the formalization process to respond to new demand. As COFOPRI entered more complex
geographic areas, and decentralized its work processes, the formalization model had to be revised .          34


COFOPRI analyzed and evaluated processes, redesigned such processes to meet future needs, assessed its
organizational structure and functions in connection with the redesigned processes, and identified measures
to improve organizational effectiveness. This exercise included the procedures applicable to informal
possessions originating from invasions to private land, properties in high-risk areas, or sites of
archeological significance. A consultancy was also carried out to evaluate the formalization cost structure,
identify areas of improvement, and develop a new costing system to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of formalization activities.

Working on the building blocks of a national cadastre system. Another important development was the
passage of Supreme Decree N° 020-2002-AG which created a Commission to prepare a draft law
organizing a National Integrated Cadastral System linked to new RP. While the proposal for a National
Integrated Cadastral System was still under Congressional consideration, MEF, SUNARP and COFOPRI
started to work on the "building blocks" of a legal cadastre system. The Project supported preliminary
steps towards the harmonization and standardization of registry and cadastre data to facilitate data
integration and ensure compatibility.

(iv) Human Resource Management

This subcomponent was difficult to implement. Continuous cutbacks in counterpart funding did not allow
the development of a long-term capacity building program.               While initial needs assessments were
conducted, workshops were carried out in an ad-hoc manner such as training on the new cadastre law and
cadastre development, and the new registry regulations implemented by SUNARP. In general, no data was
reported on number of people trained. However, COFOPRI was able to provide in-service training as part
of the actual formalization process (Component 3).

Component 3. Property Formalization

A cost-effective formalization model: The Project formalized property rights rapidly, in a cost-effective
manner and on a massive scale. Formalization campaigns comprising three distinct phases (Process 0, 1
and 2) were designed to deal with a large number of informal properties .   35   Within this general framework,
specific procedures were developed to deal with each of the main categories of informal property: Human
Settlements, Popular Housing Associations, Popular Urbanizations, and Housing Associations and
Cooperatives. Because of this cost effective model, original formalization targets were largely exceeded
(25% for properties and 14% for titles).         For settlements on high-risk areas or archeological sites,
COFOPRI worked with the agency in charge (National Culture Institute [INC] and National Civil Defense
Institute [INDECI]) to ascertain whether formalization could move forward and if so, what safeguards had
to be put in place. In these specific cases, the decision to clear the sites for formalization was taken by INC
or INDECI.

Community participation.        COFOPRI developed strategies and mechanisms to structure community
participation as an integral element of the formalization process. Before formalization, the community was



                                                     - 17 -

widely informed on the advantages of formal ownership, the methodology that would be applied, and the
documents that they had to present. The community and its leaders were encouraged to actively participate
in the process.

During Process 1 and 2, community leaders and residents participated in the fieldwork, measuring their
plots and putting up physical signals. Final decisions concerning the site were taken in coordination with
community leaders and were recorded in public minutes discussed and approved in community assemblies.
During Process 2, COFOPRI's field staff organized additional meetings with community leaders and
representatives of different community-based organizations (men and women) and discussed further the
specific steps that COFOPRI would take, the type of documents that established eligibility, and the
importance of community participation and organization. COFOPRI's community promoters often assisted
residents in organizing their documents.

To ensure that those who received ownership titles actually resided within the community and within a
particular household, COFOPRI undertook a census. The census was checked against the settlement's
organizations internal records. A list of eligible owners was pre-published so that community members
have an opportunity to make corrections. Residents held community assemblies to deal with conflicts that
may have arisen during the process. Safeguards were applied to ensure that agreements were socially
legitimate. During Project implementation, COFOPRI realized that each community was different and
social differences had to be considered when applying field methodologies.

Customer Services Offices. COFOPRI opened information offices to receive new request from informal
settlements (to incorporate them in subsequent campaigns) and answer specific questions about the
formalization process. In a random survey of 5,442 users conducted in December 2003, 88.95% of those
surveyed reported that COFOPRI's service was "very good" or "good" and 92.44% said they were serviced
in a timely manner .36




Decentralization of formalization activities. Supreme Decree 005-2002 JUS created Provincial
Formalizations Commissions to involve local authorities in formalization activities. Under this model,
COFOPRI retained normative and supervisory functions in connection with the technical processes of
formalization at the national level, while a Provincial Commission headed by the local Mayor defined the
specific priorities. To implement this model, 90 technical cooperation agreements between COFOPRI and
Provincial Municipalities were entered into. COFOPRI also developed new strategies to strengthen the
capacity of municipalities in terms of the sustainability of geo-referenced cadastres, through the delivery of
the graphic cadastral base developed by COFOPRI in the areas where the NFP was taking place and the
training of the municipal staff in charge of maintaining and updating the cadastral base.

Achievements under all components are considered substantial.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

During appraisal the present value of the project's economic cost and benefits were calculated (US$54
million and US$1.75 billion, respectively) for a net present value of about US$1.70 billion. This analysis
was based on the assumption of a substantial reduction of transaction costs for lot owners (in terms of time
and out-of-pocket expenses) that should be reflected as a capital gain to be realized through the lot market
price. It was also assumed that increased property prices were particularly helpful for the poor as land and
housing are their main assets resulting from years of family savings. The analysis compared the price of
titled and untitled lots and concluded that titling increased the market price by about US$25 per square



                                                    - 18 -

meter (controlling factors, other than titling, that could influence the lot market price such as
infrastructure). For an average lot size of 100 square meters, the benefit would be US$2,500 so doubling
the lot price (then estimated at US$2,500).

During project implementation, COFOPRI decided to obtain more conclusive evidence about project
impact on the urban poor real estate market, and an in-depth quantitative study on property prices was
commissioned in order to develop a more precise methodology to determine such impact in terms of capital
gains and market prices . The main purpose of this research was to estimate the effect of the titling process
                         37


carried out by COFOPRI on the market price differential observed between titled and untitled properties.

The price model formulated was based on a set of six variables, to breakdown the components of property
prices in marginal urban or peri-urban areas. In addition to the value added by the property title, the other
variables considered were: (i) land price not including the building; (ii) construction price (considering the
finishings); (iii) community living conditions and environment; (iv) alternative uses of property
(commercial or manufacturing); and (v) family socioeconomic features.

The main finding of this empirical analysis was that once the effects produced by the five remaining factors
were set aside, the price differential associated with having a formal property title was approximately
US$925 per property (or around 25% of the value of the typical formalized property, since it was found
that a COFOPRI beneficiary property had an average market value of US$4,000). This marginal impact
was constant, even after considering different geographical areas or types of titles.

Since the actual number of properties which COFOPRI converted from untitled to titled, up to the closing
date, was 920,000 with an increase of US$925 as the reference value of the titling impact, it is estimated
that the gross economic benefit produced by the Project was US$853 million, far exceeding the amount
invested in the PNF (US$66 million including the whole Bank loan and counterpart resources). Although
lower than the figures estimated during appraisal (due to a revised, more accurate, methodology), these
figures confirm the substantial positive economic impact of the Project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

During appraisal it was determined that the Project would deliver a service whose cost would be borne by
the Government. However, COFOPRI was expected to collect user fees for the issuance of certain titles
based on the beneficiaries' capacity to pay. RPU would fully recover the cost of the
registration/certification of subsequent property transaction. User fees were expected to finance about 6
percent of total project costs. Formalization costs per title were estimated at about US$51 consistent with
international standards for a negative present value of US$38 million. Higher property tax revenues were
expected but that effect was considered outside the scope of the project because it required improvements in
tax assessment, collection and administration.

During Project implementation COFOPRI was able to collect user fees for an amount up to US$170,000
out of the formalization of commercial properties and popular urbanizations. RPU recovered US$7.6
million out of the registration of mortgages and sales, and the issuance of certificates about the legal status
of formalized properties. Therefore, user fees helped the implementing agencies to recover about 12 percent
of project costs.

During project preparation, the standards to measure the cost of issuing and recording property titles were
adopted (US$ 35.00 for COFOPRI       38   and US$ 16.00 for RPU ), based on the experience of the pilot
                                                                    39




                                                    - 19 -

project. Costs generally increased as the Project entered more complex areas and the economies of scale of
massive procedures were reduced. COFOPRI's costs increased from US$43.3 in year 2000, to US$49.80
in 2001, US$55.40 in 2002 and US$62.00 in 2003, while RPU's costs initially dropped from US$14.60 in
2000 to US$5.62 in 2001, and then increased in 2002 to US$7.07, and in 2003 to US$32.73 . Although 40


higher than expected at appraisal, overall costs remained within acceptable international standards.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact.

·        Inter-institutional coordination mechanisms. The Project financed: (a) the involvement of RPU in
the registry unification process, so as to maintain the key efficiency gains (e.g. in terms of shared physical
infrastructure and allocation of human resources); and (b) a re-engineering of internal processes within
COFOPRI. COFOPRI also developed new strategies to strengthen the capacity of municipalities in terms
of the sustainability of geo-referenced cadastres (see section 4.2). COFOPRI began coordination efforts
with the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB)-financed PETT and also strengthened its relationship
with other public sector entities by providing formalization services through inter-institutional agreements.

·        Technical Skills. During project implementation COFOPRI and RPU accumulated considerable
technical expertise. Even after massive formalization initiatives came to an end, the human capital was
retained by the same agencies or local governments. It also created within the Peruvian labor market a new
group of professionals with expertise in property rights such as lawyers, survey engineers, and public
notaries, that did not exist before.

·        Investment Promotion. To strengthen the knowledge base of project beneficiaries, COFOPRI, in
partnership with the Banking Association (ASBANC), developed CREDICRECE. The CRECICRECE
Teams consisted of experienced facilitators (micro-finance specialists and adult education specialists)
working with COFOPRI field-level promoters. The program targeted micro-enterprises and used
participatory adult-education techniques and materials (dramatization, real-life case studies, video and
educational games) to build knowledge about the rights and obligations of consumers and debtors, and the
potential risks (see Section 4.2 above).

·        Community organization and awareness. By issuing clear and legal titles, community residents no
longer had to guard their properties and could use their time more productively (adults working in the
former sector or children studying in nearby schools). As a result of the registry culture campaign,
beneficiaries of the NFP have acquired better understanding of the advantages of recording various real
estate transactions (probate, sale, mortgage and long term rentals) and the risks entailed by failing to do so.

·        Conflict resolution mechanisms. To avoid that legal actions would be used as a mechanism to
delay administrative proceedings, various levels of conflict resolution were established under the Project:
(a) A conciliation system, applicable to informal settlements established on private property, aimed at
reaching an agreement between the informal possessors and the private owner, for a legal transfer of the
property rights to take place, and a valid title to be issued. Such settlement was enforceable as a judicial or
arbitral award. A conciliation team, as a neutral facilitator, worked proactively and creatively to resolve
individual and community level property conflicts in a transparent manner. Conciliators received training
on different conflict resolution techniques including mechanisms to correct power imbalances between
parties. During the course of project implementation, and based on lessons learned, conciliation procedures
and processes were improved. Appropriate safeguard procedures were developed such as community



                                                       - 20 -

information sessions, joint meetings with both parties, and community meetings to ratify conciliation
agreements; (b) An administrative review system. The Tribunal Administrativo de la Propiedad was
established comprising prominent external legal experts, as an independent instance for conflict resolution
through the final administrative review of the decisions made by COFOPRI, so as to respect the
two-instance principle and guarantee due process. The decisions of RPU could also be challenged before a
separate unit (Tribunal Registral) and were similarly subject to judicial review. Up to 35% of
arbitration-conciliation cases led to final dispute resolution.

·        Municipal Strengthening. COFOPRI worked with provincial municipalities and provided them
with technical assistance for developing municipal cadastres. This has resulted in improved tax collection
for many municipalities. In addition, because of the new information available for the municipalities, they
are in a better position to control urban development. For example, in Lima residents of about 10,000
houses situated in risky areas (i.e. close to rivers, on hill tops, or under electric transmission lines) were
re-located to safer places by the Municipality.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

(i) Conflicts among slum residents resulting from disputes on land occupied by them created problems for
implementation. Experts in conflict resolution had to intervene to resolve these disputes; and (ii) Opposition
in the Peruvian Congress to approve some of the institutional and legal reforms related to property rights
was another factor which affected implementation, but was finally overcome with the passage of two key
pieces of legislation: the Registries Unification Law and the National Cadastre System Law.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Positive Factors.

(i) Government commitment. The high priority given by the Government to formalization, in spite of two
changes in Administration enabled COFOPRI to serve as a strong autonomous agency and facilitated the
achievement of Project objectives; and (ii) Autonomous status of COFOPRI in terms of recruitment of
staff, human resources management, financial management, and procurement enabled it to work as a
well-organized and efficient institution for titling process.

Negative Factors.

(i) The political transition that Peru underwent in 2000 caused delays in project implementation.
However, the close coordination among the executing agencies, various levels of Government involved in
the sector and the Bank team allowed to sustain an effective decision making process; (ii) Economic
recession. During the early stage of project implementation, a persistent economic recession affected the
Peruvian economy and as a result, the development of a credit market backed by RPU titles slowed down.
Banks were not willing to give credit to people as much as envisioned. However, in the last two years of
project implementation, the situation improved substantially in parallel with the economic upturn; (iii) The
breakdown of working relationship between the Fujimori administration and ILD was a major road block
to start implementation. As a result, alternative ways to continue the formalization process had to be found
(i.e. the establishment of COFOPRI and the design of the NFP); (iv) Counterpart funding: Even though
most counterpart funding was available in a timely manner, procurement processes and disbursements
lagged because of the external debt ceilings imposed by MEF. This caused the Project to progress at a



                                                       - 21 -

slower pace than expected, and affected the human resources management component;                     (v) LACI.
Introduction of the Bank's integrated financial management system (LACI) slowed down project start-up,
particularly disbursements, since the Government was not supportive of applying/accepting this system.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Most of the Project's implementation variables were under COFORPI/SUNARP's control (procurement,
disbursements, financial management).          Appropriate communication, participation and consultation
strategies helped them to receive regular feedback on Project issues.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the Project was US$66.54 million compared with the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
estimate of US$66.3 million. The Bank financed US$36.12 million (54.3%), the Government contributed
US$21.04 million equivalent in local costs (31.6%), and US$9.38 million for foreign costs (14.0%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The Project is likely to be sustainable given the solid socio-economic dynamic it generated in
beneficiary human settlements. In spite of a negative economic cycle during the first part of project
implementation, overall indicators of enhanced access to credit and property value show a sustained growth
trend.   On the institutional side, sustainability of the achievements of the Project will be assured by the
greater accessibility of registry services by the poor (both in terms of physical location and reduced
transactions costs) fostered by the Project, and the consolidation of the registry culture among low-income
segments of the population via the Project-financed dissemination campaigns about the benefits of the legal
protection provided by the registry.

An essential reform for the financial sustainability of the property registries was advanced by Law No.
27755 that established a single Real Property Registry (RP), under SUNARP, and mandated the gradual
merger into RP of the existent property registries (RPU, RPI and the Special Section of Rural Lands
[SEPR] in RPI). The law established a Commission to coordinate the administrative and technical aspects
of the unification process. This Commission was chaired by SUNARP and included representatives of
COFOPRI, RPU, PETT, the Notaries Association and the Lawyers Associations. The registries'
front-office physical integration, essential to dispel the perception of different levels of quality and security
in registry services provided was completed with Project support . This integration was accomplished in a
                                                                    41


record time (less than two years) through the strong leadership of SUNARP's management, an agency
recognized as front-runner in State modernization efforts. Registry rates were also revised to ensure the
sustainability of RP, while preserving the preferential treatment for COFOPRI beneficiaries (a system of
cross-subsidies was established that favors properties with a market value under US$4,000)

Registry unification will also require the enforcement of the simplification, deregulation and low-cost
access principles of Law No. 27755, in conjunction with system operators like notaries and lawyers
associations. The integration of information systems will be complemented by SUNARP's National System
of Property Registry Recording (IRCN), an initiative that pursues countrywide connectivity of registry
offices through intranet facilities and a single software platform. To assure accessibility of registry services
by the poor; the registry integration process will therefore be complemented by: (a) an increased number of
registry offices physically closer to poor settlements; and (b) low transaction costs that make the property



                                                      - 22 -

registry a better option than informal arrangements .42




The Real Property Rights Consolidation Project, which is currently under preparation, will continue
supporting the formalization program initiated under the Project and will expand its benefits to new users
and new areas, within the context of Peru's decentralization process. It will ensure sustainability of overall
property rights through close involvement of municipalities in the process of generating cadastres and
finishing formalization. In addition, COFOPRI in partnership with SUNARP will continue to implement a
communication and educational program that promotes a culture of property registration. The program will
be implemented in partnership with central, local and community-level stakeholders.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the Project
was highly satisfactory.     The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for
intervention in the area of urban property rights. The Project was fully consistent with the Government's
development priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy. In addition, during the design process the Bank
covered in-depth socio-economic issues, and addressed local preferences and priorities. A harmonious
team, with solid skills mix, brought in state-of-the-art expertise into project design, providing flexibility and
responsiveness to the client.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design in all major
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional. In addition, during appraisal, the
Bank properly assessed the Project's risks and benefits. The Bank had an excellent working relationship
with the Borrower during the whole process of preparation and appraisal.                 Extensive stakeholder
consultations and participatory approach were highly productive, and initiated a process of full-fledged
ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage. The result was an innovative project that
has deserved the highest international recognition, including special featuring during the Shanghai
Conference on `Scaling-up Poverty Reduction'.

7.2 Supervision:

Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the Project was also highly
satisfactory.   Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the Project was adequately
supervised and closely monitored/evaluated from the Lima Country Office after September 2000, as part of
the overall decentralization initiative of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. Over the five years
of project implementation, there were eight formal supervision missions; however, after decentralization to
Lima, regular exchanges between the project team in the Country Office and COFOPRI/RPU management
assured prompt solution to any implementation issues. As a result, the Bank-client relationship was
extraordinarily close and productive. The supervision team included specialists in land administration,
property law, public sector management, organizational development, social analysis, property markets and
finance, financial management, disbursement, and procurement. Highly qualified local and international
consultants were frequently used to address specific aspects of project components.




                                                     - 23 -

Aide-Memoirs, Back-to-office reports (BTORs) and Project Status Reports (PSRs) were regularly
prepared and transmitted, flagging to Country Management Unit               and Sector Management Unit
management outstanding issues and underscoring benchmarks for remedial actions. In particular, the
aide-memoirs alerted the Government and the implementing agencies about potential issues during project
execution and facilitated effective remedial actions in a timely manner, fully consistent with the provisions
of the Loan Agreement and Bank policies and procedures. The PSRs realistically rated the performance of
the Project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever
minor delays in implementation occurred, the Bank's task team agreed with the Government on concrete
steps and specific timetables for putting the Project back on track. The Bank team continuously monitored
the Project's likely development impact.       Follow-up on agreed actions was also permanent.          Loan
Agreement covenants were enforced effectively, in a way that no remedies (suspension/cancellation) were
ever considered.

With the decentralization of Bank supervision responsibilities to the Country Office in Lima, the Bank was
in a position to provide more rapid and effective response and follow-up. The Bank supervision team
showed flexibility in suggesting/approving minor modifications in implementation timetables and budgets,
and (when required) also processed reallocations and amendments following standard Bank procedures.
They worked closely with the Government and the implementing agencies, and provided substantial
technical advice to address Project issues. The Bank conducted workshops at the early stages of
implementation on specific subjects, such as procurement and disbursement; at the end of the Project, a
stakeholder workshop was conducted to share Project experiences.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Highly Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance was highly satisfactory during project preparation,
appraisal, and implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Highly Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the Project was highly satisfactory.
The Borrower displayed a high level of commitment with the objectives of the Project and assured a proper
design of technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and social aspects, including
stakeholder commitment. Government officials and staff of the implementing agencies worked closely with
the Bank's project team on a continuous basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm. The Ministry of the
Presidency and the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (under which COFOPRI
was at that time) also provided valuable support and guidance.

Since the Project was based on the experience of a PHRD-financed pilot, design elements were
appropriately fine-tuned to avoid any misalignment between components and objectives. COFOPRI was
endowed with fresh human resources, sufficient budget allocation, effective leadership, and strong political
support at the highest level. As a result, it had superb technical, administrative, and financial capacity at
the design stage and was ready to start implementation promptly after effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The Government implementation performance was satisfactory. It consistently maintained a
strong commitment with project objectives. COFOPRI and SUNARP reported to the Ministry of Justice



                                                    - 24 -

(MINJUS); staff in the three agencies included senior policy makers and experienced managers. The
Government was very responsive to suggestions of corrective implementation measures, and effective in
dealing with outstanding operational issues. Appropriate levels of review and approval were in place;
financial accountability and transparency were carefully observed, and expenditures were duly authorized
before they were incurred; documentation was maintained properly for periodic review by external auditors
and Bank supervision missions.           Within the external debt ceilings imposed by the country's
macro-economic framework, MEF ensured smooth funds flow to the implementing agencies and provided
regular support and guidance to the implementing agencies and the Bank supervision missions. The Project
did not suffer from major counterpart funding problems (except for the human resources management
component). The audit reports from participating entities were generally available on or just after the due
date, and had no major accountability issues.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Highly Satisfactory. The performance of the implementing agency, COFOPRI, was highly satisfactory.
COFOPRI was endowed with a proactive and relatively stable management (only three National
Coordinators during implementation); the management team effectively monitored progress in each
component so as to avoid or mitigate implementation bottlenecks. COFOPRI management was also fully
receptive to the Bank advice, and highly collaborative with respect to meeting demanding benchmarks and
deadlines.    COFOPRI obtained the status of "pliego presupuestal" (ensuring appropriate budget
management authority), as well as technical, functional, and administrative autonomy . COFOPRI was
                                                                                             43


allowed to operate with the efficiency and effectiveness of any private sector enterprise . COFOPRI took
                                                                                             44


over the functions of 14 public institutions, and was authorized to issue administrative rules for the
implementation of the national formalization plan . COFOPRI also generated the right incentives for
                                                       45


obtaining support from the other public institutions (through a number of inter-institutional cooperation
agreements) and the reform beneficiaries (through intensive participation and consultation during
implementation).

The performance of the PCU which coordinated the project was highly satisfactory. It operated in close
coordination with the senior management of COFOPRI and in consultation with SUNARP for the activities
related to RPU and RP. Quality of financial management and procurement administration was highly
satisfactory. Two external procurement reviews coordinated by the Bank Procurement Specialist confirmed
that apart from minor procedural errors, the quality and reliability of procurement administration remained
consistently high. The PCU conducted proper monitoring and evaluation activities as per the Loan
Agreement and collected/analyzed the agreed indicators ; relevant Loan Covenants were fully complied
                                                            46


with. Stability of PCU staff was critical during the implementation period; only three project managers
during project implementation, and continuity of most of the key positions assured the generation and
preservation of a quality institutional memory that helped to promptly solve implementation issues.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Highly Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Legal and Institutional Reforms

·        A flexible stance to legal and institutional reform must be clearly reflected in project design.




                                                      - 25 -

Institutional reform is not a one-step intervention. Instead, it is an evolutionary process in the sense that, as
soon as a reform is completed, new constraints and new obstacles emerge and efforts have to be taken to
resolve these issues. New opportunities can also emerge that need to be capitalized ((e.g. decentralization,
registry unification, national cadastre system). Similarly, while a general legal framework is needed at the
start of massive area-based property formalization program, the framework must remain flexible to respond
to local circumstances that are likely to emerge during the implementation process.

·        The idea to create a new institution with a sole mandate to issue titles, rather than using an existing
institution may yield positive results.

This project proved that new institutions with fresh mandates can really accomplish what old institutions
with old mandates could not accomplish. The new institutions remained strong and, by the end of the
project, were able to move on to the merger of the registry established by the project with the old registry
thereby joining the strengths of both entities.

A long-term vision

·        Continuous Government-Bank dialogue may render very positive results in the medium and long
terms.

A Government-Bank solid partnership may generate the most positive results during design and
implementation of property rights projects. In this project, careful preparation was crucial for the smooth
and successful implementation. In addition, effective management and continuity of people working on the
project on the part of the Bank as well as the Borrower were critical for the success of a project.

·        A comprehensive approach to property rights should match modern organizations and markets.

Effective formalization of property rights through legal and institutional reforms is feasible provided that it
addresses the causes of informal property and includes a mix of modern organizations and practices that
promote a long-term real estate property market based on secure and transferable rights. Respect to private
property should always be promoted as a basic principle of the overall system.

·        The long-term sustainability and legitimacy of property reforms must be addressed early on in the
institutional framework.

The institutional framework can assure sustainability by: (i) integrating a participatory and consultative
approach in all stages of the formalization process; (ii) providing for effective legal security and reduction
of transaction costs; (iii) requiring property information to be administered through a geo-referenced
cadastre system; (iv) comprising effective conflict resolution mechanisms; and (v) including provisions to
facilitate collaboration between central and decentralized agencies.

·        The recognition of property rights is only the first step in a process to improve the living conditions
of the formalized population.

Property rights formalization must be complemented by policies that promote access to credit, housing,
infrastructure, and community empowerment, among others. This particular Project learned that the
following complementary actions were needed: (i) mechanisms of information collection and maintenance
regarding the characteristics of formalized properties and program beneficiaries, that allow the market to



                                                     - 26 -

operate more efficiently and effectively; (ii) promotion of the potential of the formalized market among
market agents involved in credit, investment on infrastructure and public utilities (iii) involvement of other
public and private institutions interested in housing policies, credit and infrastructure, and public utilities,
as partners in an effort to improve the living conditions of the poor; (iv) community education to inform
and educate the formalized population on the significance of property rights, the benefits of registering
subsequent transactions, and mechanisms to access to credit; and (v) strategies to strengthen the capacity of
municipal governments.

·        Institutional reforms are required to eliminate high transaction costs in property markets as a
precondition for an effective demand for formalization.

Investments in multi-purpose cadastre or valuation systems for tax purposes should come later at a time
when formalization beneficiaries have gained enough trust in the State system and property markets have
been functioning long enough for prices not to be distorted. Furthermore, for a project of this type an
appropriate technology that is manageable and sustainable is more important than sophisticated technology,
especially for mapping, cadastre, and database activities.

Effective Consensus-building

·        Given the political sensitivity of property issues, securing and maintaining high-level consensus
and commitment to property reform is critical.

As demonstrated by this Project, a broad consensus involving the highest instances of Government was an
essential precondition for the development of a massive titling, cadastre and registration program.
High-level political support was needed to concentrate functions and responsibilities related to
formalization into a single agency to achieve significant economic efficiency, standardize and streamline
land regularization procedures in a systematic and timely manner, and promote equitable access to tenure
security. In addition, high-level support helped to neutralize opposition by those who benefited by the status
quo.

However, high-level support can falter, especially during changes in the political administration.
Therefore, a consensus-building and communication strategy must be designed and implemented to sustain
high-level support throughout the formalization process and beyond. The government's commitment must
be translated into specific actions like the establishment of institutional arrangements, approval of the
required regulations, as well as the signing of cooperation agreements between participating agencies, like
the ones entered into between COFOPRI and SUNARP.                     Furthermore, when a project requires
multi-sectoral action, it is critical to get the commitment of other agencies concerned (such as MEF and
MVCS) to implement related reforms in their sectors, so that full impact of titling and land registration can
be realized.

Special monitoring and evaluation mechanisms

·        Property Rights projects should focus on monitoring and evaluating the potential social and
economic benefits of property reforms.

In this particular Project, the results of the socioeconomic monitoring component not only improved
decision-making but also helped generate support for property reforms. Studies were conducted to measure
(qualitatively or quantitatively) the benefits of formalization. In addition, surveys were carried out to



                                                      - 27 -

identify the factors restricting access to credit, investment in housing, infrastructure and public utilities,
among others. The ability to demonstrate social and economic benefits facilitated alliance-building and
helped identify policy areas that needed to be reformed to realize further benefits.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

David F. Varela (Task Team Leader)
Kathrin A. Plangemann (Senior Public Sector Management Specialist)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Veena Mayani (Consultant)
Felipe Morris (Economic and Financial Analyst)
Javier Madalengoitia (Consultant)
Juan Pablo Molina (Consultant)
Elizabeth Greene (Program Assistant)
Yolanda M. Alvarez-Martini (Program Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i) Elena Panaritis
(ii) David F. Varela

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

(i) Geoffrey Shepherd, Consultant, former Sector Manager
(ii) Richard Messick, Senior Public Sector Specialist
(iii) Elena Panaritis, former Task Manager
(iv) Victor Endo, Consultant
(v) Pedro Belli, Consultant
(vi) Cora Shaw, Senior Cofinancing Officer
(vii) Edgardo Mosqueira, former Project Manager
(viii) Carolina Rouillon, National Coordinator of COFOPRI
(ix) Guillermo Gastañeta, Project Manager
(x) Virginia Cachay, Project Administrator
(xi) Felipe Morris, Socioeconomic Issues Coordinator
(xii) Giovanna Núñez, Communications Coordinator



                                                     - 28 -

(xiii)Fernando Cantuarias, Former National Coordinator of COFOPRI

D. Footnotes:

1.         The World Bank's Experience with Rural Land Titling, Environment Division, No. 1992-35.
2.         Property formalization was envisioned as a key element of a economic policy. It should advance the social and
economic integration of low-income people, recognizing the                 savings and investments made in parcels they occupied.
Thus, one of the purposes of formalization was to make liquid real estate assets of low-income population in order to integrate
them within a real estate market.
3.         ILD organized workshops and seminars and published extensive research about informality, including the best seller
"The Other Path" by Hernando de Soto.
4.         Initially, State authorities tried to stop invasions with ineffectual legal prohibitions. When invasions were not seen as
a threat, the authorities tolerated them to help poor                      families to get access to public services. In the early
1960s, invasions became irreversible and the various levels of Government were incapable to respond to housing demand
(i.e., purchasing of State land for housing development needed at least five years of bureaucratic procedures). At that time, it
was expected that the municipalities would                       recognize property rights through sporadic regularization campaigns
but most municipalities proved incapable to exercise this responsibility.
5.         ILD's main recommendations for a new property rights system were: (i) political support at the highest level was
required to undertake a nationwide formalization program; (ii)             dispersion of functions and responsibilities generated
major bottlenecks for formalization; (iii) a new institutional framework was needed for close inter-institutional cooperation
among the agencies having responsibilities in connection with the physical-legal formalization; (iv) planning mechanisms for
the formalization process were also needed; (v) alternative dispute resolution mechanisms were critical for effective reforms;
(vi) appropriate administrative mechanisms for property matters were required to avoid complex and expensive judicial
proceedings; and (vii) the legal and institutional framework should include incentives to formalize and maintain formalized a
property to provide                         sustainability to the proposed strategy.
6.         Process 0 was a diagnostic report on the status of informal settlements in a selected area; Process 1 generated and
registered in RPU a perimetric and parcel map; and Process 2               identified the beneficiaries through a participatory process,
and concluded with a valid title (in the case of Human Settlements) or a contract of sale (in the case of Popular
Urbanizations and Housing Cooperatives), both duly registered in RPU.
7.         Initially tested on the internal directions of the Institutions in charge of the formalization process, the reforms were
later included into norms of higher hierarchy (Supreme           Decrees and/or Laws) after a process of consensus-building within
the potential beneficiaries.
8.         In the case of subsequent transactions effective duration was between 30% and 40% of the maximum established.
9.         Information was obtained through a survey financed by the project in 2000-2001.
10.        In 1999, 70% of the total rooms belonged to formalized owners and 30% to illegal occupants.
11.        Brick walls (57% of formalized families versus 42% of others); concrete roofs (45% versus 31%); water (85% versus
67%).
12.        "Estimación del Beneficio de Formalizar la Propiedad Inmobiliaria Urbano-Marginal" (Estimated Benefit from
Formalizing Urban-Marginal Real Property), Apoyo                           Consultoría, Diciembre 2003.
13.        Before 1999-2000 no information was available about the number and amount of mortgages constituted by, and
credits granted to, the recently formalized population because             Central de Información Positiva (CIP) became operational
only in 2000. CIP is a system that provides the financial system and the market at large, information regarding the            potential
and characteristics of the formalized sector (see section 4.2 below). CIP shows that from a universe of 1,421,113 titleholders
identified only 522,646 receive a formal               income. Thus, there are a significant number of prospective clients that makes
attractive the low-income segment to the financial system.
14.        By December 2003 these credits represented 8% of the total amount of credit granted by the financial system to
individuals.
15.        Field, Erica (2002). "Entitled to Work: Urban Property Rights and Labor Supply in Peru", Industrial Relations
Section/Firestone Library, Princeton University.
16.        The NFP was associated with a 28% reduction in the likelihood of child work (since children were allowed by their
parents to study more time once security of tenure was           assured). See Field, op.cit.
17.        Although the granting of property titles has not generated major changes in the domestic dynamics regarding
responsibility for children and housekeeping, women perceive that the formal recognition of their right to a property has
forced their husbands to take them into account in property transactions. INFORMET (2002), "Estudio sobre los efectos
de la titilación en el desarrollo de la mujer" (Research study of the effects of titling on gender development),
PDPU/COFOPRI.
18.        COFOPRI also learned to deal with topographic differences between informal settlements located in the coast, the
highlands and the jungle sections of the country (Costa,         Sierra, Selva).



                                                                   - 29 -

19.       Specific studies included: GRADE (1999) Study on the supply and demand of informal credit; GHIF (2000) Study on
the promotion of credit and investments in the formalized sector; Cuánto (2000) Qualitative study on the real estate market in
marginal urban areas; Arena (2000) Credit promotion and investment in the formalized sector: demand             considerations;
GHIF (2001) Study on financing of public services in low-income sectors; GHIF (2001) Report on proposals and
recommendations to promote credit. (All             reports are in Spanish).
20.       For example, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF); the Superintendency of Banking and Insurance; the
Ministry of Housing, Construction and Sanitation (MVCS); and            the Development Finance Corporation (COFIDE), among
others.
21.       Information providers included, among others RENIEC (civil registry), SUNAT (tax collection agency), SUNARP
(vehicle registry), ESSALUD (social security agency) and financial institutions. In addition to property and registry data, CIP
includes the employment status of the landholder (formal sector, self-employed) place of employment,            financial liabilities
and debt payment history including previous access to credit, vehicle ownership, identification card and civil status, among
others. Information on paid bills         and positive payment practices were obtained from public utility providers (water,
electricity, telephone).
22.       Felipe Morris in collaboration with Victor Endo and Rafael Ugaz. "La formalización de la propiedad en el Perú:
develando el misterio" (Property formalization in Peru:                 Unveiling the mystery), 2004.
23.       Since CIP was implemented in 2000, earlier data is not available. 154,000.
24.       Data collected by CREDICRECE include: sex, age and education levels of participants; type and size of enterprises;
previous credit experience; and changes in level of                     knowledge among participants.
25.       Pre and exit workshop surveys asked participants to identify types of formal credit, define repayment practices, and
qualify their willingness to seek credit, among others.       Surveys can be disaggregated by sex of participant, age, reported
education, city/region, and type of enterprise.
26.       Information-sharing agreements were signed with the Caja Municipal de Ahorro y Crédito de Trujillo, EDPYME
PRONEGOCIOS, Banco Wiesse de Ica, Instituto de Desarrollo               del Sector Informal de Lambayeque (IDESI), and Instituto
de Investigación y Promoción Regional (IPR). COFOPRI agreed to share the CREDICRECE database with these                   entities,
and in turn, they agreed to provide COFOPRI with information on CREDICRECE participants who have sought information
and/or received credit.
27.       Unfortunately, in 2003 the Constitutional Court ruled that forms should be certified only by Notaries.
28.       "Estrategia para la sostenibilidad de largo plazo del Sistema de Registro Predial Urbano" (Strategy for a long-term
sustainability of the Urban Property Registry System),        Arthur Anderson, Lima, November 2000.
29.       After the passage of Law No. 27755, Project activities were reoriented to support the registries' merger.
Subcomponents 2.1 (Strengthening of RPU) and 2.3 (Institutional         Development) were realigned to partially finance the
registry unification process.
30.       This surpassed the estimated attendance of 14,000 total, averaging 2,000 per fair. In Arequipa alone, 5,000 people
visited the fair, followed by Trujillo (3,000), Iquitos and   Cono Norte Lima (2,500), and the remaining cities at 1,500 to
1,000.
31.       38 popular theater modules were carried out which brought together approximately 7,720 participants.
32.       "Estudio de Cultura Registral" (Study on registry culture), DESCO, December 2001 and a subsequent baseline study
on the knowledge, attitudes and practices about property      registration among formalized households, COFOPRI, June 2002.
33.       Data obtained from "Evaluación Integral, Servicios de la Cultura Registral Predial, Fase Ex-post" (Integral
Evaluation, Predial Registry Culture Services, Ex-post fase), October             2003.
34.       "Estrategia de Largo Plazo de COFOPRI" (COFOPRI's Long-Term Strategy), Apoyo Consultoría, March 2002.
35.       A typical formalization campaign, for example, took place in a period of 2 months and covered 50 to 70 informal
settlements, or 30,000 to 35,000 plots.
36.       Data reported in COFOPRI's organizational publication (Cofopri al día), December 2003.
37.       "Estudio para el diseño de un sistema de información de precios del mercado inmobiliario urbano marginal e
implementación del mismo" (Study for the design and                     implementation of an urban-marginal real estate price
market information system), Apoyo Consultoría, Lima, September 2003.
38.       These included COFOPRI costs directly related to formalization, like public servant salaries, individual contractors'
fees, outsourcing costs and operational costs of mapping, office establishment and other direct operational costs; and excluded
capital costs such as office refurbishment, furniture, equipment and information technology.
39.       RPU costs included public servant salaries, individual contractors fees, outsourcing costs and operational costs of
mapping, office establishment and other direct operational              costs; and excluded capital costs such as office
refurbishment, furniture, equipment and information technology.
40.       Titling cost increases have several explanations: (i) initial cost estimates were based on the experience of one city
(Lima) which accounted for more than 40% of the real estate             properties to be formalized and that prioritized huge areas
with high lot concentration and relatively low complexity; (ii) extension of the project area to six new urban centers did not
allow to continue massive processes; (iii) more complex areas needed longer and more expensive processes; and (iv)
decentralized operations involved higher costs. The           evolution of RPU costs suggests that during the first years of the



                                                                - 30 -

Project a special effort was made to transfer and close the entries contained in RPI, and building a
geo-referenced base, while during 2001 to 2002 RPU was focused in the review and recording of property titles submitted by
COFOPRI. The increase in 2003 could be                      explained as a result of the merger of RPU and RPI.
41.       From approximately 6 million properties in the whole country, about 3 million are recorded in RPI and 1 million in
RPU. About 2 million properties remain outside the registry           system, more than 1.5 million in urban areas.
42.       RPI operated 60 registry offices plus 10 document reception offices while RPU operated only 20 registry offices.
43.       In the beginning, key positions in each institution were appointed by the President and directly reported to him,
allowing technical independence and political support.                Subsequent restructurings of the Executive Branch led to
the transfer of COFOPRI the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communication, and finally to the Ministry of Justice.
44.       Except for certain formalities inherent to public sector management.
45.       COFOPRI became the titleholder of all State lands, whether national or municipal.
46.       Indicators were simplified during the December 2002 supervision mission, and were timely furnished thereafter to
the Bank (the end of each quarter).




                                                              - 31 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                          Project Performance Indicators

                        Performance Indicator                                 SAR            As of June 2004

Total number of properties formalized                                       959,690              1,195,321

Total number of titles issued and registered                                805,527              920,096

Average duration of title registration not more than                           50                 49 days

Average duration of mortgage registration not more than                        10                5.77 days

Average duration of the registration of subsequent transactions not            10                5.73 days
more than

Share of males and females as individual owners (1) (2)                                     Females: 66.79%

                                                                              N/A            Males: 33.21%

Number of subsequent transactions registered other than mortgages                                554,892
(sales, subdivisions, exchanges, inheritances, etc.) (2)                      N/A

Number of mortgages registered (2)                                            N/A                 72,926

COFOPRI's cost per titled issued                                             US$35              US$ 64.00

RPU's cost per COFOPRI-issued title registered                              US$15                US$ 32.73

(1) Of the total number of titles issued, 39% were issued to a single individual (66.79% female; 33.21% male) and
61% to more than one person (joint ownership).
(2) Indicators added by the 2001 Amendment to the Loan Agreement.




                                                        - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                                                     Annex 2a

Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

 Project Component     Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
                                                                       Appraisal (%)
Component 1                     0.33                   0.52              153.33
Legal and
Institutional
Framework
Investment Promotion            0.27                   0.61              218.50
Social and Economic             0.52                   0.32               59.24
Monitoring
Component 2                     4.75                   5.17               44.69
Strengthening of RPU
Administration
Strengthening of                5.21                   1.34               26.97
COFOPRI
Administration
Institutional                   1.11                   0.91               78.19
Development of
COFOPRI and RPU
Human Resource                  1.22                   0.10                7.89
Development
Project Management              4.13                   4.46              108.02
Component 3                     0.44                   0.06               14.01
Collection and
Analysis of
Ownership-Related
Information
Implementation of the          47.85                   56.89             110.02
National
Formalization Plan
Total Base line Cost           61.70                   66.54             100.36
Physical                        2.30
Contingencies
Price Contingencies             2.30
Total Project cost             66.30                   66.54




                                                - 33 -

- 34 -

                                                                                                             Annex 2b

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)*

 Expenditure                      Procurement Method                                     Procurement Method
 Categories                         Appraisal Estimate                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                      ICB         NCB       Other       NBF         Total        ICB        N    Other       NBF    Total
                                                                                            C
                                                                                            B
1 Works                                                  2.25       2.25                                      0.38   0.38
2 Goods               11.60       1.98                  13.58                    4.21                         2.13   6.34
                      (9.28)     (1.67)                (10.95)                  (4.21)                              (4.21)
3 Services                                   29.16      14.63       43.79        24.57            9.38        9.89   43.84
                                             (23.7                 (23.71)      (24.57)                             (24.57)
                                              1)
4 Misc.                                      6.68                                7.34                         8.65   15.99
                                            (3.34)                              (7.34)                              (7.34)

Total                                        37.82      16.88       66.30        36.12            9.38       21.05   66.54
                                             (28.7                 (38.00)      (36.12)                             (36.12)
                                              2)




* Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants
  under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for
  items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.



                                                             - 35 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                            Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Legal and Institutional     0.27      0.07                 0.34       0.18             125.9  257.1
Framework
Investment Promotion        0.22      0.06                 0.40       0.21             181.8  350.0
Social and Economic         44.00     0.10                 0.21       0.11             0.5    110.0
Monitoring
Strengthening of RPU        3.42      1.75                 1.54       0.77             45.0    44.0
Strengthening of            0.88      0.46                 0.15       0.21             17.0    45.7
COFOPRI Administration
Institutional Development   0.95      0.21                 0.63       0.27             66.3   128.6
of COFOPRI and RPU
Human Resource              1.04      0.23                 0.04       0.06             3.8     26.1
Development
Project Management          2.07      2.06                 1.89       1.48             91.3    71.8
Collection and Analysis of  0.36      0.08                 0.05       0.01             13.9    12.5
Ownership-Related
Information
Implementation of the       28.35     23.27               30.87      17.73             108.9   76.2
National Formalization
Plan




                                                   - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

  Cost Benefit Analysis
  (Indicate currency, units and base year) US$ Million, 1998

                                       Present Value of Flows
                                Economic Analysis                 Financial Analysis
                          Appraisal        Latest Estimates   Appraisal     Latest Estimates




  Benefits                  1,760                853           N/A                7.77
  Costs                      55.5                 66            38                 66

  Net Benefits              1,704.5              787           N/A              - 58.23
  IRR/NPV                    N/A                 N/A           N/A                N/A




                                                 - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Supervision

               12/15/1999                 7    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);            S               S
                                               ECONOMIST (SOCIO-ECON)
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               ECONIOMIST (USER FEES)
                                               (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                               (1); OPERATIONS ADVISOR
                                               (1); TEAM LEADER (1)
               12/08/2000                 8    TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT             S               S
                                               ASSISTANT (1); SOCIAL
                                               ISSUES (1); PUBLIC SECTOR
                                               ISSUES (1);
                                               ORGANIZATIONAL ISSUES
                                               (1); PROPERTY RIGHTS
                                               ISSUES (2); CREDIT ACCESS
                                               ISSUES (1)
               06/29/2001                 3    CONSULTANT (1); TASK                 S               S
                                               MANAGER (1); INTERN (1)
               12/15/2002                 3    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC             S               S
                                               SECTOR MAN. SPE (1);
                                               OPERATIONS ANALIST (1)
               03/28/2003                 4    Task Team Leader (1);                S               S
                                               Formalization Speciali (1);
                                               Co-Task Manager (1); Social
                                               Issues Speciali (1)
               10/15/2003                 3    TASK MANAGER (1);                    S               S
                                               CONSULTANT (2)
               03/15/2004                 2    Task Team Leader (1);                S               S
                                               Operations Consultant (1)


 ICR
               Jul. 04                   7     Task Manager (1),                    S               S
               Oct. 04                         Co-Task Manager (1),
               Nov. 04                         Consultants (5)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Supervision                             143.4                           573.9
  ICR                                        8.0                           32.0



                                               - 38 -

Total    151.4         605.9




             - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

 2. Project Progress Reports.

3.     Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

       "Estrategia para la Sostenibilidad de Largo Plazo del Sistema de Registro Predial Urbano"
       (Strategy for a long-term sustainability of the Urban Property Registry System), Arthur Andersen,
       Lima, November 2000.

       "Encuesta de Línea de Base: Reporte Final" (Final report: Baseline survey), Apoyo Consultoría,
       Lima, November 2000.

       "Promoción del Crédito y las Inversiones: Informe Final" (Final report: Credit and investment
       promotion), Group for Home & Infrastructure Finance, Lima, June 2001.

       "Estudio Cualitativo del Mercado Inmobiliario Urbano Marginal" (Qualitative study of the
       peri-urban real estate market), Instituto Cuanto, Lima, August 2001

       "Estudio de Cultura Registral" (Study on registry culture), DESCO, Lima, December 2001.

       "Estrategia de Largo Plazo de COFOPRI" (COFOPRIs Long-term Strategy), Apoyo Consultoría,
       Lima, March 2002.

       "Estudio Ad Hoc sobre Efectos de la Titulación en el Desarrollo de la Mujer" (Ad-hoc study on
       the Effect of Titling in Woman Development), Consorcio INFORMET-INPET, Lima, April 2002.

       "Estudio sobre la Dinámica de los Asentamientos Humanos" (Study on the dynamics of Human
       Settlements), SASE, Lima, July 2002.

       "Entitled to work: Urban Property Rights and Labor Supply in Perú", Princeton University,
       October 2002.

       "Formalización de la propiedad Urbana en el Perú: Cuatro Historias de Éxito" (Urban Property
       Formalization in Peru: Four Success Stories), Ursula Paredes and others, Lima, COFOPRI, 2002.

       "Estudio para el análisis de Cartera de Crédito dirigido al segmento de la población de menos
       ingresos de las zonas urbano marginales" (Study for the análisis of the loan portfolio aimed at
       low-income population of marginal urban areas), Alejandro Velasco, Lima, January 2003.

       "Estudio para el diseño de un sistema de información de precios del mercado inmobiliario
       urbano marginal e implementación del mismo" (Study for the design and implementation of an
       urban-marginal real estate price market information system), Apoyo Consultoría, Lima, September
       2003.

       "Estimación del efecto de la titulación de Cofopri sobre la inversión e infraestructura y el nivel
       de consolidación en áreas urbano-marginales" (Assesment of the effects of COFOPRI titling


                                                   - 42 -

      process on investments and infrastructure, and the consolidation level in marginal urban areas),
      Roddy Rivas Llosa, Lima, April 2004


4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated December 2004, and

5. Project Appraisal Document for Peru Urban Property Rights Project, dated July 15, 1998 (Report No.
  18245)




                                               - 43 -

Additional Annex 8. [Borrower's Evaluation Report]


                           REPORTE DE EVALUACIÓN FINAL

                PROYECTO DERECHOS DE PROPIEDAD URBANA - PDPU


 1.   Datos Básicos del Proyecto

    Datos del Reporte
    Nombre                  Proyecto     Derechos     de Número L/C 4384- PE
                            Propiedad Urbana
    País/ Departamento      Perú/     Ancash,   Arequipa,Región
                            Ayacucho, Ica, Junín,     La
                            Libertad, Lambayeque, Lima,
                            Loreto,    Moquegua, Piura,
                            Tacna y Ucayali
    Sector/ Subsector       Ministerio  de   Transportes,
                            Comunicaciones, Vivienda y
                            Construcción/ Ministerio de
                            Justicia
                                  Datos Principales
                            Originales                   Actuales Revisados
    PCD                     1998
    Evaluación              $ US 38,000,000
    Aprobación              30 de noviembre de1998
    Efectividad             28 de Diciembre de 1998
    MTR
    Cierre                  30 de junio de 2003.         30 de Junio de 2004
    Prestatario: República
    del Perú
    Agencia               de
    Implementación:
    Comisión              de
    Formalización    de   la
    Propiedad    Urbana    ­
    COFOPRI
    Otras Contrapartes:
    Registro Predial Urbano
    - RPU/
    Superintendencia
    Nacional de Registros
    Públicos ­ SUNARP

             Equipo                    Actual                     Evaluación
                                                           (Documento de Evaluación del
                                                         Proyecto. Perú. Proyecto Urbano de




                                         - 44 -

                                                              Derechos de Propiedad. Pag.5)
    Vice Presidente
   Representante del País                                  Isabel Guerrero
   Representante del Sector                                Guillermo Perry
   Jefe del Equipo ICR                                    David Varela
   Autor Principal del ICR                                 David Varela
    Jefe   del  Equipo   de                                David Varela
    Evaluación




2. Principales Ratios de Desempeño

Efectos
Sostenibilidad
Impacto en el Desarrollo
Institucional
Desempeño del Banco
Desempeño del Prestatario
                            QAG ( si está disponible)      ICR
Calidad de Entrada
Proyecto en Riesgo en (si o no)                            No
algún Momento



3. Evaluación del Proyecto

3.1 Objetivo de Desarrollo: alcanzable e importante para el país

Condiciones económicas      favorables del país (crecimiento del PBI, reducida tasa de
inflación, etc) así como voluntad política del actual Gobierno Peruano de luchar contra la
pobreza mediante la ampliación de oportunidades económicas, sociales y políticas de los
pobres y en particular la decisión política de impulsar la formalización de propiedad
constituyeron un entorno favorable durante el período de implementación del Proyecto.

El derecho de la población pobre urbana de poseer activos tangibles (propiedad inmueble
formalizada) les permite acceder al crédito utilizando su título de propiedad como garantía
para las transacciones financieras en el sector de microfinanzas al adquirir la propiedad
formalizada además del valor de uso un valor de intercambio, es un incentivo para la
inversión, articulándose de esta manera al mercado formal (mercado inmobiliario, mercado
financiero y/o mercado de capitales), generándose un impacto positivo en la economía del
país.

Hubo el apoyo político necesario para iniciar el proceso de reforma institucional mediante
la creación de un sistema institucional de acceso a la propiedad y registro de calidad a
costos accesibles para las familias de menores recursos. Este sistema liderado por
COFOPRI contó con el apopo del RPU al inicio y luego de SUNARP(Ley N° 27775 Incorporación del
RPU a la SUNARP). Sistema integrado que      se caracteriza por mejorar los procedimientos



                                           - 45 -

administrativos haciéndolos ágiles,                     incorporar nuevas y flexibles metodologías y
tecnologías y reducir los costos de transacción que faciliten una formalización masiva de
la propiedad en forma eficiente y eficaz.

Asimismo la dación y puesta en marcha de normatividad relacionada con la propiedad
urbana        promotora de la inversión privada                     influyó positivamente en el crecimiento
económico.

En ese contexto, se validaron los supuestos principales formulados durante el diseño del
Proyecto en relación con el objetivo de desarrollo                         "Crear un sistema que asegure los
derechos sostenibles de la propiedad en asentamientos seleccionados predominantemente
pobres en áreas urbanas más extensas donde los derechos de propiedad son informales.
La mayor seguridad de la propiedad mejora el bienestar de los propietarios"(Documento de
Evaluación del Proyecto. Perú. Proyecto Urbano de Derechos de Propiedad. Anexo 1. Resumen del Diseño del Proyecto. Pag. 25).


Este objetivo se ha cumplido en la medida que el nuevo sistema institucional de Derechos
de Propiedad legitimado socialmente ha promovido el desarrollo de capacidades de la
población de escasos recursos para formalizar la propiedad inmueble y se ha sentado las
bases para el fortalecimiento de una cultura de formalización y ha generado una masa
crítica conformada por una cantidad suficiente de propiedades que requiere el mercado
inmobiliario.

Testimonios de los beneficiarios manifiestan que el hecho de tener el título de propiedad les
genera mayor estabilidad no sólo económica (aumenta el costo de propiedad inmueble)
sino seguridad legal (reducción de la incertidumbre) y social lo cual incide positivamente en
la mejora de la calidad de vida del beneficiario y de su familia.

La formalización de la propiedad urbana en términos de cantidad de lotes formalizados y de
títulos registrados y entregados a los                     beneficiarios ha sido exitosa. Además, de la
inscripción de los títulos de propiedad de los predios saneados, también se han
incrementado significativamente los segundos actos que se refieren a la inscripción de
compra-venta de nuevos títulos inmobiliarios, inscripción de fábrica, transferencias,
inscripción de hipotecas, prenda agrícola, modificación de predios, certificación de
gravámenes, cargas, etc (La Formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú: Develando el Misterio. Resumen Ejecutivo. 2004.
Pag.18).


Hallazgos en diversos estudios (Encuesta de Línea de Base, Estudio Cuantitativo de Precios en el Mercado
Inmobiliario Urbano Marginal. Cuánto S.A. (2002) y Estudio Cuantitativo .Apoyo Consultoría (2003))    demuestran que
existe una tendencia gradual al acceso al mercado financiero de los beneficiarios de
propiedades formalizadas respaldados por el registro (La Formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú:
Develando el Misterio. Resumen Ejecutivo. 2004. Pag.8) En ese sentido, la posesión del título de propiedad
es un mecanismo usado para acceder al crédito como hipoteca. A pesar que el acceso al
crédito no estaba en auge se registraron 20 mil 720 hipotecas por un monto de US$ 136
millones en el año 2003 (La Formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú: Develando el Misterio. Resumen Ejecutivo. 2004.
Pag.8). La posesión del título de propiedad representa además una garantía de credibilidad
y solvencia del deudor para la entidad prestataria y se asocia con un menor temor al
desalojo. La posibilidad de desalojo limita al propietario de efectuar inversiones. Esta
conclusión permiten validar los resultados de otros estudios (La Formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú:
Develando el Misterio. Resumen Ejecutivo. 2004. Pag 28)




                                                         - 46 -

Si bien se requiere mayores estudios sobre el tema para corroborar los hallazgos, existe
evidencias que parecen indicar la presencia de efectos positivos derivados de la
formalización en el acceso y costo del crédito en el país. La Formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú:
Develando el Misterio. Resumen Ejecutivo. 2004. Pag.25


Evidencias empíricas asocian un mayor número de propiedades formalizadas con un
aumento de la inversión en ampliación y/o remodelación de los bienes inmueble                                  y el
acceso a la provisión de servicios básicos ofrecidos por el Estado, con el consiguiente
aumento del valor de intercambio de los predios.

Estos beneficios colaterales deben enmarcarse en una estrategia integral de largo plazo
que involucre a distintas instituciones públicas y privadas que desempeñen un rol
vinculante entre los propietarios de inmuebles formalizados y los mercados crediticios,
financieros formales, de acuerdo con las características y necesidades de los beneficiarios.
En ese sentido, la formalización y titulación no son suficientes para lograr beneficios
económicos y sociales es necesario adoptar medidas complementarias relacionadas con un
marco legal adecuado de ejecución de garantías de crédito, fortalecimiento del marco legal
de derecho de propiedad, promoción de desarrollo de entidades de microfinanzas,
capacitación e información de los beneficiarios sobre el acceso al crédito, campañas de
difusión de las ventajas de la cultura registral y de la formalización de las empresas.(La
Formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú: Develando el Misterio. Resumen Ejecutivo. 2004. Pag 30)


Durante el período 1999-2003 la provisión de los servicios de formalización han crecido,
tanto por el mayor número de predios inscritos en el registro, como por la mayor confianza
en el servicio brindado por el registro (La Formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú: Develando el Misterio.
Resumen Ejecutivo. 2004. Pag.18)


Un aspecto relevante respecto al cumplimiento del objetivo de desarrollo se refiere al
involucramiento de otras instancias que apoyen decididamente el proceso de formalización
de la propiedad en el cual las Municipalidades cumplen un rol protagónico en la expansión
de este proceso, por ser instancias más cercanas a la población potencialmente
beneficiaria.

3.2 Diseño

Componentes Originales
La etapa del diseño del proyecto incluye 3 componentes: 1) Reformas                                   del Mercado
Inmobiliario 2) Organizaciones Nacionales para la Propiedad y, 3)                                  Conversión de la
Propiedad Informal Existente. (Documento de Evaluación del Proyecto. Perú. Proyecto Urbano de Propiedad Urbana.
Anexo 1. Resumen del Diseño del Proyecto. Pag. 9)


El diseño de los componentes y subcomponentes                                del proyecto se ha sustentado en
experiencias previas de formalización tanto en el país (Plan Piloto del Registro Predial
ejecutado en el período 1990-1993 y el proceso de formalización iniciado por COFOPRI en
el año 1996, validado por el Banco Mundial) como en otros países (ej, Tailandia, Filipinas,
Indonesia, Honduras, Brasil) (Formalización. La Experiencia Peruana en el Contexto Mundial. David Varela S. BM).
Experiencias tomadas en cuenta en el diseño y ejecución de este Proyecto.

La ejecución de los componentes diseñados bajo los principios básicos para la creación de
un sistema sostenible de derechos de propiedad se han reforzado mutuamente generando



                                                           - 47 -

sinergias que han potenciado efectos multiplicadores sobre el          objetivo de desarrollo
propuesto y logrado.

Acciones del fortalecimiento institucional han promovido el desarrollo de la capacidad
gerencial administrativa y financiera de COFOPRI y de la co-ejecutora con visión de largo
plazo, lo cual ha dado lugar a una administración eficiente del proyecto a nivel nacional
debido principalmente a una estructura organizacional optimizada, mejora sustantiva de los
procesos, personal altamente calificado,       uso eficiente de   recursos, infraestructura y
equipamiento apropiados y adecuada rendición de cuentas.

Componentes Revisados
Como resultado de la evaluación de medio término, realizada en Setiembre de 2001, se
recomendaron y efectuaron acciones dirigidas a la consolidación de la sostenibilidad de las
reformas emprendidas. En ese sentido, en el año 2002 se contemplaron un conjunto de
acciones orientadas a integrar los registros de propiedad inmueble, formular el plan de
largo plazo de COFOPRI, sustentado en un estudio especializado efectuado en el año 2001
y realizar un monitoreo socio ­ económico que incluye la realización de una encuesta para
compararla con la encuesta basal, a fin de conocer el impacto de la formalización así como
una evaluación de impacto sobre temas específicos. También se incluyeron el inicio de una
campaña educativa que comprendía acciones de promoción y difusión sobre cultura
registral, cultura de crédito, cultura de pago y promoción de la inversión.

Respecto a las acciones sobre Cultura del Crédito, al determinarse, de acuerdo a los
estudios realizados, que existía carencia de una cultura de crédito en la población
formalizada, que desconoce y/o desaprovecha el reconocimiento legal de su propiedad
para acceder y beneficiarse de créditos formales, a partir de mayo del 2002 se desarrolló
una propuesta técnica para implementar el Programa de Promoción de Cultura del Crédito:
CREDICRECE, con el objeto de generar demanda informada en los microempresarios
formalizados por COFOPRI y promover el acercamiento entre oferta y demanda.

Asimismo, respecto a las acciones sobre Cultura Registral se diseñó una campaña de
comunicación educativa orientada a informar y educar a la población formalizada por
COFOPRI que ahora gozan del derecho a la propiedad, acerca de los beneficios de
registrar todos los cambios o modificaciones que hagan a su propiedad posterior al proceso
de formalización, con el fin de apoyar a la sostenibilidad de este proceso a través del uso
continuo de los Registro Públicos.

En relación con la definición del ámbito geográfico del proyecto, ésta se realizó teniendo en
cuenta criterios de concentración de viviendas por formalizar, grado de consolidación
urbana, niveles de pobreza y potencial económico.         En la fase inicial del proyecto se
seleccionaron áreas urbano marginales de 8 ciudades (Arequipa, Chiclayo, Chimbote,
Huaraz, Piura, Trujillo, Iquitos, Lima Metropolitana) de acuerdo con los criterios arriba
señalados y la capacidad institucional de la entidad ejecutora. En esta etapa se superó las
metas iniciales de titulación previstas (805,000 títulos de propiedad). Posteriormente en el
año 2001 con la autorización del Banco Mundial se amplió la cobertura a 14 ciudades, con
la incorporación de Ayacucho, Ica, Junín, Moquegua, Tacna y Ucayali. Esta ampliación de
cobertura incluyó además la ampliación de meta a 1,500,00 títulos, lográndose un avance
del 90% de su cumplimiento que representan 1,350,000 títulos.




                                            - 48 -

La extensión del PDPU (de junio del 2003 a junio del 2004) permitió completar los objetivos
del mismo y sentar las bases para un posible segundo proyecto del Banco Mundial en
apoyo del proceso de formalización del país con un énfasis en su sostenibilidad en el
mediano plazo. Durante la extensión del proyecto se realizaron las siguientes actividades:

(a) Completar las actividades planeadas para mejorar y medir los impactos
socioeconómicos del Proyecto;
(b) Continuar las tareas de promoción del crédito y las inversiones, incluyendo la
promoción de las culturas de crédito y de registro que empezó en el primer proyecto;
(c) Apoyar en la integración de los registros de propiedad en SUNARP;
(d) Proveer entrenamiento y fortalecimiento de capacidades de COFOPRI;
(e) Permitir el cumplimiento del Plan Nacional de Formalización (Se esperaba alcanzar 195.000 títulos
adicionales en el período 2003-2004, con lo cual se completaría 1.5 millones de títulos que es la meta acordada con el Banco
Mundial en las enmiendas al Convenio de Préstamo. No se llegó a cumplir esta meta)
;
(f)   Evaluar los beneficios de un posible programa de saneamiento de fabrica;
(g) Analizar el desarrollo de un sistema de catastro nacional.


3.3 Como afectaron los riesgos identificados en el diseño al objetivo de desarrollo y
a los resultados (Quality of Entry)

Altamente Satisfactorio, el proyecto responde a las necesidades de los beneficiarios y
cumple el objetivo de desarrollo propuesto con resultados positivos en sus 3 componentes.
Además, las acciones del proyecto están de acuerdo con las políticas y procedimientos del
Banco y los riesgos identificados en la etapa de su diseño fueron mitigados, prevenidos o
contrarrestados mediante alternativas estratégicas articuladas.

Tanto en el diseño como en la aplicación del Proyecto se incorporó análisis y estudios
sociales sobre la población beneficiaria, con la finalidad de contar con una mejor
interpretación de los efectos e impactos económico-sociales del proyecto en la lucha contra
la pobreza (Políticas de Salvaguardia. Marco para aumentar la Eficacia en Términos de Desarrollo. Nota para Deliberación.
Banco Mundial. Pag.12). También COFOPRI en apoyo al Instituto Nacional de Cultura- INC ha
efectuado estudios de evaluación arqueológica en asentamientos humanos (Formalización en
Asentamientos Humanos u Otras Posesiones Informales que tienen Superposición o Colindancia con Zonas Arqueológicas.
COFOPRI. Jefatura de Zonas de Patrimonio Cultural. Octubre 2003). cuyos terrenos se encuentran colindantes
o en superposición de zonas arqueológicas para delimitar, definir, redelimitar y declarar la
categorización de éstas, con la finalidad de velar por la conservación, preservación y
protección del patrimonio cultural de la Nación de índole arqueológica, artística, científica,
histórica o técnica. En el caso que las posesiones informales estén ubicadas en zonas de
valor arqueológico, monumental o cultural se suspende el proceso de formalización acorde
con las Políticas de Salvaguarda del Banco relacionadas con la propiedad cultural que
incluye medidas de mitigación cuando existe efectos negativos sobre recursos culturales
físicos. (Políticas de Salvaguardia: Marco para Aumentar la Eficacia en Términos de Desarrollo. Nota para Deliberación. Banco
Mundial. Anexo A)


A continuación, se plantea los principales riesgos (Documento de Evaluación del Proyecto. Perú. Proyecto
Urbano de Derechos de Propiedad. Pags.20-2) identificados en la etapa de diseño del proyectos y como
afectaron su ejecución:




                                                            - 49 -

1.   Beneficios reducidos de los usuarios debido a que los propietarios se frustran con su
habilidad para obtener acceso a los mercados financieros formales. Este moderado riesgo
de débil apalancamiento financiero e inversión de las propiedades formalizadas en el
mercado formal, se enfrentó mediante reformas en el marco legal e institucional orientado
a promover inversiones, análisis y estudios especializados sobre oportunidades
económicas y financieras de las propiedades formalizadas, así como la difusión de estas
opciones y promoción de cultura de crédito entre los usuarios. Asimismo la formalización
masiva ha generado una masa crítica de propiedades para el surgimiento de un mercado
inmobiliario. Ante esta situación es importante precisar que estas acciones deben ser
permanentes y reforzadas para evitar la reversión de los beneficios.

2.   Intereses creados asociados con el sistema de titulación y registro de propiedad
tradicional se oponen a dicha reforma, este riesgo con niveles de calificación moderado-
alto de resistencia al cambio ha sido contrarrestado por las ventajas que implica para los
propietarios acceder al derecho de formalizar sus propiedades a costos accesibles y
procedimientos ágiles. Este nuevo sistema eficiente, oportuno, eficaz y descentralizado ha
obtenido resultados exitosos al haber formalizado masivamente propiedades inmuebles en
la zona urbana.

3.   Pérdida de apoyo político del Gobierno del Perú para continuar el proceso de
formalización de la propiedad inmueble en el país, este riesgo considerado bajo-moderado
no afectó su ejecución debido que los Gobiernos subsiguientes dieron apoyo al proceso de
formalización de la propiedad.

4.   COFOPRI / RPU dejan de ser autónomas e independientes, este riesgo calificado en el
rango de bajo-moderado no se concretó durante la etapa de ejecución del proyecto debido
principalmente al apoyo político brindado a la formalización. Por el contrario, hubieron
avances importantes en acciones de fortalecimiento institucional de ambas instituciones.
Tanto la institución autónoma responsable de la formalización de la propiedad urbana
(COFOPRI) como la institución encargada del registro de los títulos de propiedad (RPU)
incorporada a la SUNARP poseen estructuras organizacionales flexibles, metodologías
innovadoras, sistemas simplificados, recursos humanos calificados y adecuada dotación de
recursos materiales y equipamiento.

5.   El Gobierno no aprueba reformas legales e institucionales adicionales, este bajo riesgo
no afectó la ejecución del proyecto en la medida que se han aprobado una conjunto de
normas legales y reformas institucionales que crean condiciones facilitadoras para el
proceso de formalización de la propiedad inmueble y de sus beneficios/ ventajas
colaterales, superando de esta manera las restricciones normativas e institucionales
existentes.

6.   La sostenibilidad del RPU se ve amenazada por una debilitación futura de su
autonomía administrativa (a través de su unificación prematura con el RPI) o incapacidad
para seguir incrementando su experiencia registral, este moderado riesgo se ha minimizado
por la unificación del RPU y RPI que en lugar de producir un debilitamiento administrativo
ha fortalecido al RPU a través de la unificación de registros con SUNARP. En ese sentido
el RPU ha desarrollado un sistema registral integral innovador y proactivo de aplicación
exitosa tanto en el área urbana como rural, que responde eficazmente a los requerimientos
del Plan de Formalización Nacional.



                                           - 50 -

        La autosostenibilidad del registro mediante la recuperación de costos fue muy difícil
        de enfrentar. En principio el costo fue asumido por el Gobierno siguiendo la política
        de títulos gratuitos. Posteriormente, se obtuvieron ingresos por concepto de
        segundas transacciones. Sin embargo estos ingresos no eran muy significativos
        cuando se les compara con el costo de operar dicho registro. En este sentido, a
        través de la unificación de los registros de predios en el cual el RPU se fusiona con la
        SUNARP, se propicia su viabilidad a largo plazo. Además se realizan acciones por
        el lado de la demanda del servicio, mediante la promoción de la cultura registral a la
        población beneficiaria.

7.     Debilitamiento de los principios de formalización en COFOPRI, este riesgo calificado
como bajo no se produjo debido al respaldo político brindado al proceso de formalización
de propiedad liderado por COFOPRI a nivel nacional y al cumplimiento de los compromisos
suscritos en la Carta de Política del Sector de crear un sistema sostenible de derechos de
propiedad. En ese sentido, existe un marco legal y normativo que facilita la formalización
de la propiedad, instancias autónomas y eficientes que lideran la formalización y registro
de las propiedades (COFOPRI Y SUNARP), masa crítica de propietarios que favorece la
ampliación del mercado inmobiliario, al reconocerse a las propiedades formalizadas como
predios aptos para transacciones conforme a ley (Informe de Gestión. (Al 31 de Diciembre de 2003) Pag. 3) y
promoción del uso y respeto de los derechos de propiedad. Éstos constituyen los principios
básicos del sistema establecidos en la Carta de Política del Sector (Anexo 8 Documento de Política del
Sector. Proyecto Urbano de Derechos de Propiedad .Pag. 54).


8.     Otras áreas urbanas presentan obstáculos más serios para la formalización en Lima,
este riesgo bajo-moderado se presentó en la ejecución del proyecto. Los principales
problemas estaban relacionados con trabas legales, falta de información, conflictos que
enfrentan las propiedades formalizadas debido a concesiones mineras, delimitación de
linderos de la propiedad privada y asociaciones y cooperativas de vivienda. Estos
problemas se han tratado de resolver mediante un marco legal apropiado, capacitación a
los beneficiarios así como la formación de equipos especializados encargados de
resolución de conflictos. Anticipándose al riesgo de reclamos de propiedad se crea un
Sistema de Arbitraje Especial de Propiedad, con competencia para resolver controversias
surgidas en asentamientos informales incorporados al Programa de Formalización (La
formalización de la Propiedad en el Perú: Develando el Misterio. Pag. 78).


También se tuvo que asumir el hecho que en las comunidades la compra y/o distribución
        de terrenos y la demanda de servicios municipales se realizaba a través de la
        organización vecinales. Frente a ello el proyecto realizó             estudios para un mejor
        entendimiento sobre el impacto socio-económico de la formalización en el ámbito
        local.

9.     Otros organismos públicos deciden no colaborar ni proporcionar información de base
para implementar el Plan de Formalización Nacional, este bajo riesgo que considera la
posibilidad de resistencia de las instancias locales a apoyar la labor de COFOPRI Y RPU
no se llevó a cabo. Por el contrario, en el marco del proceso de descentralización COFOPRI
emprendió acciones para desarrollar y fortalecer las capacidades de los Gobiernos Locales.
Estas instancias brindan apoyo decidido al Plan de Formalización Nacional. Además se
crearon las Comisiones Provinciales de Formalización de la Propiedad Informal en las
cuales participan diversas instituciones públicas, privadas y organizaciones comunales que



                                                             - 51 -

trabajan en el fortalecimiento del proceso de formalización. La Secretaría Técnica de estas
Comisiones es asumida por COFOPRI (Informe de Gestión . Proyecto Urbano de Derechos de Propiedad. Al 31 de
Diciembre del 2003. Pag. 10).


10. Cuando las áreas bajo la jurisdicción de COFOPRI y PETT tienen un límite en común,
la falta de estándares operacionales y técnicos pueden conducir a dificultades al asignar
derechos de propiedad, este moderado riesgo fue contrarrestado al establecerse los
estándares respectivos que definían claramente las competencias de ambas instituciones.


4.    Logros del Objetivo de Desarrollo y de los Componentes

4.1 Objetivo de Desarrollo (Informe de Gestión. Proyecto Derechos de Propiedad Urbana al 30 de Junio de 2004. 2.1
Objetivos a Largo Plazo. Objetivos de Mediano Plazo. Pag. 2-3-4)


Altamente satisfactorio, en la medida que se ha logrado contribuir con el objetivo de
desarrollo de largo plazo "Reducir la pobreza en las zonas urbanas", al haber generado una
masa crítica que permitirá la integración económica y social de la población de escasos
recursos a la economía formal. Este proceso de integración se realizará a través del
aumento del ahorro y de la inversión en vivienda, el acceso al mercado inmobiliario en el
cual las propiedades formalizadas puedan ser utilizadas para efectuar diversas
transacciones y sirvan como garantía para obtener créditos. La provisión de servicios
públicos e infraestructura en las áreas beneficiadas por el proceso de formalización influirá
a su vez en un mayor valor de las propiedades. Todos estos efectos positivos directos e
indirectos del proyecto, favorecen a los beneficiarios del proyecto así como a la economía
en general contribuyen a la distribución equitativa del bienestar de la población.

En relación con el objetivo de mediano plazo "Crear un sistema que asegure los derechos
sostenibles de la propiedad en asentamientos humanos en áreas urbanas, donde las
propiedades son informales. La mayor seguridad de la propiedad mejora el bienestar de los
propietarios.", se ha implementado con éxito un nuevo sistema de formalización de la
propiedad. El involucramiento de otras instituciones locales en el proceso de formalización
es un aspecto relevante en relación con el cumplimiento del objetivo de desarrollo. Las
Municipalidades asumen un rol protagónico                             en la expansión del proceso por ser las
instancias más cercanas a la población potencialmente beneficiaria.

A continuación se presentan los principales efectos positivos alcanzados:

ü Fortalecimiento de las organizaciones públicas responsables de ejecutar el proyecto
(COFOPRI y SUNARP) que se logró principalmente debido a las reformas en el marco
legal e institucional y al desarrollo de estrategias de largo plazo.

ü Incremento de los segundos actos(Compra-ventadenuevostítulosinmobiliarios,inscripcióndefábrica,
transferencias, inscripción de hipotecas, prenda agrícola, modificación de predios, certificación de gravámenes, cargas, etc) , lo
que a su vez ha generado incremento de la inversión pública y privada. Según testimonios
recogidos a los beneficiarios la posesión de un título de propiedad representa una mayor
estabilidad (económica, social y legal) lo que a su vez influye favorablemente en la calidad
de vida del beneficiario y de su familia.




                                                             - 52 -

ü Seguridad jurídica de los beneficiarios al incorporarlos a la formalidad.

ü Los propietarios pueden dejar en herencia sus propiedades e inversiones acumuladas,
realizar independizaciones a costos accesibles, facilitando soluciones de vivienda a
familiares que construyen en pisos superiores o en áreas libres de las viviendas de los
padres.

ü La formalización resuelve conflictos por indefinición de linderos, a través de
procedimientos legales que privilegian la posesión y definen la propiedad.

ü Incentivo de inversión para el propietario, al poseer su título de propiedad mejora su
vivienda e invierte en servicios públicos y salubridad que incide a su vez, en la mejora del
valor del vecindario.

ü Reducción del riesgo de inversión de las empresas proveedoras de servicios públicos
en áreas urbanas, con propiedades saneadas. Estas empresas pueden utilizar la
información generada en los procesos de formalización (planos, información topográfica y
de campo) para mejorar sus instrumentos de planeamiento, lo cual reduce el costo de
inversiones.

ü Seguridad legal de la propiedad formalizada permite ser utilizada como garantía
hipotecaria.

4.2 Componentes (Resumen Gestión del Proyecto Derechos de Propiedad Urbana. Período 1999-2003)

Los principales logros obtenidos por componentes, subcomponentes y actividad a lo largo
de cada año de ejecución del proyecto, se muestran en el anexo 1 y en el anexo 2 se
presentan los indicadores del proyecto.

Entre los beneficios del proceso de formalización llevado por COFOPRI y el RPU ( ahora
incorporado a la SUNARP) y apoyado por el Proyecto, podemos mencionar los siguientes:

·    Seguridad Jurídica: El Proyecto contribuye en el proceso de generación de un nuevo
sistema de Derechos de Propiedad incuestionables, incorporando a la formalidad a las
poblaciones marginadas.

·    Herencia Familiar : La formalización de la propiedad permite que los propietarios
puedan dejar en herencia el patrimonio e inversión que han logrado acumular. Asimismo, la
generación de procedimientos simplificados de formalización permite a su vez realizar
independizaciones a costos accesibles, facilitando soluciones de vivienda a muchas
familias que construyen pisos superiores y en las áreas libres de las viviendas de sus
padres.

·    Eliminación de Conflictos : La formalización de la propiedad elimina conflictos a
distintos niveles: entre el asentamiento como colectividad y terceros ( otros asentamientos y
en algunos casos titulares de derechos de propiedad privados), pero también al interior del
mismo asentamiento. Los conflictos por la indefinición de linderos se resuelven en el
proceso de formalización, de acuerdo a procedimientos legales que privilegian la posesión
y definen la propiedad.



                                             - 53 -

·    Incentivo a la Inversión : El propietario que recibe un título de propiedad con todas las
garantías sabe que no será desalojado y, por tanto, amplía sus fronteras de inversión. No
solo se preocupa por mejorar las condiciones de su vivienda, sino que también invierte en
servicios públicos y acciones de salubridad que mejoren el valor de su vecindario. De otro
lado, las empresas proveedoras de servicios públicos perciben un impacto positivo de la
formalización, debe a que: (i) reducen el riesgo de las inversiones en servicios públicos si la
propiedad se encuentra saneada y: (ii) pueden utilizar la información generada durante los
procesos de formalización ( planos, información topográfica y de campo) para mejorar sus
instrumentos de planeamiento, lo cual reduce el costo de las inversiones.

·    La Formalización supone darle a la Propiedad no solamente un Valor de Uso sino
también un Valor de Intercambio : Los títulos formalizados elevan el valor de mercado de
las viviendas que pueden ser transadas sin restricciones. La seguridad legal que ofrece la
propiedad formalizada permite que ella pueda ser utilizada para cumplir el requisito de
garantía hipotecaria o, simplemente, el de garantía genérica e incluso de identificación del
domicilio, requisito exigido en las diferentes operaciones de crédito a las que pretenda
acceder el propietario formalizado. Los títulos de propiedad demuestran la permanencia en
el predio, su ánimo de continuidad y su identificación con un domicilio estable que facilita la
cobranza, elemento básico para la aprobación de créditos. Asimismo, el estudio de precios
de Apoyo Consultoría concluyó que el valor de las propiedades en las zonas formalizadas
se incrementó en US$925.00 por propiedad, equivalente a un 25% del valor inicial
promedio de los predios. Esto implica un incremento sustancial en la riqueza de los
pobladores formalizados.

·    Del total de beneficiarios de formalización (ya sean titulares individuales o
copropietarios), las mujeres representan más del 50% de los beneficiarios. Sin embargo,
cuando nos enfocamos en los títulos individuales más del 60% corresponden a
beneficiarias, haciendo de este tipo de propiedad un fenómeno principalmente femenino. El
principal beneficio de la titulación en la calidad de vida de las mujeres responde a la mayor
seguridad de su vivienda, eliminando así el permanente estado de vigilancia frente al temor
del desalojo del terreno o usurpación del predio. Una vez formalizada la ocupación del
predio, el impacto más importante entre las beneficiarias es la inversión en infraestructura.
La formalización también ha servido para la generación de actividades económicas vía el
acondicionamiento de la vivienda como locales para tales iniciativas. Asimismo, en las
dinámicas domésticas la titulación no habría generado mayores cambios a nivel de
responsabilidades para con los hijos y del cuidado de la casa. Sin embargo, las mujeres
perciben que el reconocimiento formal de su derecho sobre el terreno formalizado hace que
sus parejas las tomen en consideración ante cualquier uso posible del predio.

·    Impacto de la formalización en el mercado laboral. El estudio de la Dra. Erica Field
(Field, Erica. Entitled to Work:Urban Property Rights and Labor Supply in Peru. Industrial Relations
Section/Firestone Library, Princeton University, 2002.)presenta evidencia empírica de que los
propietarios informales pierden mucho tiempo en proteger su propiedad, existe un costo
sustancial en términos de tiempo perdido e imposibilidad de participar en el mercado de
trabajo como resultado de las actividades de protección. En general, el estudio demuestra
tres efectos muy positivos: un aumento de 17% en las horas de trabajo de una familia
beneficiada, una disminución de 47% en la probabilidad de trabajar dentro de casa y una
reducción de 28% en la probabilidad del trabajo infantil. Es decir, se ofrece más tiempo a



                                               - 54 -

los pobladores para trabajar fuera de sus hogares, disminuye su dependencia a trabajos-
usualmente menos productivos- en el hogar y reduce la necesidad de que los niños salgan
a trabajar.

Componente 1: Reformas al Mercado Inmobiliario Urbano
El objetivo central de este componente fue producir normas legales, reglamentarias e
institucionales necesarias para sostener y profundizar las reformas que establecieron los
principios de la formalización y constituyen las bases para el desarrollo de un mercado
inmobiliario abierto y eficiente.

Subcomponente 1.1: Marco Legal e Institucional
El objetivo de este sub componente fue introducir mecanismos que permitan a COFOPRI y
RPU identificar y eliminar trabas en la normatividad        así como en los procedimientos
operativos y en las prácticas administrativas de las diferentes organizaciones públicas y
privadas que participan en el reconocimiento y asignación de derechos de propiedad.

Ello conllevó un proceso continuo de análisis que involucró:
·     Identificación y respuesta a nuevas formas de propiedad informal;
·     Mantenimiento de costos de transacción accesibles para evitar que la propiedad
formalizada revierta a la informalidad.
·     Determinación de mecanismos para la resolución de conflictos.

Con el Proyecto se han llevado a cabo las consultorías para la reglamentación de normas
que una vez promulgadas por las instancias correspondientes sirvieron para expandir el
proceso de formalización a nuevas áreas con diferentes grados de informalidad. El
desarrollo de esta normatividad legal, por lo especializado de los temas, se ha ejecutado
mediante el uso de consultores individuales.

Subcomponente 1.2: Promoción a las Inversiones
El objetivo fue el de estudiar las oportunidades para promover la utilización económica de
los títulos formalizados en el mercado, enfocándose directamente en:
·     Los obstáculos y costos de transacción que se derivan de las normas sobre propiedad
y disposición de bienes;
·     Los costos de la oferta formal de crédito;
·     Las características de la demanda de crédito de los sectores formalizados.
·     Los retos que presenta la inversión en infraestructura en las áreas formalizadas.

En este sentido, este sub componente evaluó el uso de la información generada en los
procesos de formalización, como herramienta para el desarrollo de un mercado inmobiliario,
un mercado crediticio y la inversión pública y privada en estos sectores.

Para ello se desarrolló un estudio sobre la demanda, oferta y fuentes del crédito informal,
insumo indispensable para desarrollar reformas institucionales que permitan incorporar al
sector informal a la economía formal, identificando las características básicas de la
demanda y oferta de crédito, sus actitudes frente al crédito y las variables de las que
depende el acceso al crédito.

Adicionalmente a este estudio, se contrató una consultoría, para el diseño de una
propuesta integral que permita acceder a los beneficiarios de la formalización al mercado



                                           - 55 -

formal financiero e inmobiliario.     Para ello se revisó la legislación y las prácticas
institucionales con el fin de determinar cuáles pueden influir adversamente en la libre
disposición de los inmuebles o de los títulos que los representan así como plantear las
modificaciones legales pertinentes.

Con base en el estudio indicado, las actividades asignadas a este componente incluyeron:
(i) La difusión y promoción del acceso al crédito e inversiones para los sectores
formalizados, así como la difusión de la cultura de pago, y cultura registral; y (ii) COFOPRI
actuó como un ente catalizador de iniciativas para mejorar las políticas del Gobierno en lo
referido al tema de formalización, así como a cambios normativos necesarios para generar
el crecimiento del mercado financiero e inmobiliario en los sectores formalizados.

Subcomponente 1.3: Monitoreo Socio Económico
El propósito del sub componente Monitoreo Socio Económico fue: (i) ampliar la
comprensión acerca de los beneficios sociales y económicos de la formalización de la
propiedad y; (ii) identificar los obstáculos y oportunidades para alcanzar los objetivos del
Proyecto.

Con el propósito de ponderar el impacto del Proyecto, el sub componente proporcionó
información acerca de los efectos que pueden atribuirse a la formalización (incluyendo
mejoramiento de las condiciones económicas de los beneficiarios, efectos fiscales, impacto
en la migración y efectos en la familia y en la vida de la comunidad). Con relación al
segundo objetivo, de identificar los obstáculos y oportunidades, este sub componente
retroalimentó información sobre: los costos que representa para los beneficiarios su
interacción con COFOPRI y el RPU, identificación de obstáculos (tales como impuestos,
excesiva reglamentación o deficiencias de información) que incrementan los costos de
utilizar la propiedad formalizada en el mercado inmobiliario; e investigó cómo a través de la
acción de la comunidad o del Estado se puede superar estos obstáculos.

Componente 2: Organizaciones Nacionales para la Propiedad Urbana
Este componente fue diseñado para fortalecer las capacidades administrativas de
COFOPRI y el RPU, e incluyeron el entrenamiento y la administración de su personal.

Subcomponente 2.1: Fortalecimiento de la Administración del RPU
El objetivo de este sub componente fue proporcionar al RPU la asistencia técnica para
fortalecer su sistema registral, de manera que pueda satisfacer los requerimientos del Plan
Nacional de Formalización y se consolide para sus acciones futuras. El RPU fue construido
sobre un sistema innovador y pro activo de registro que ha sido aplicado con éxito tanto en
el ámbito urbano como en el rural.
Debe resaltarse el proceso de unificación del RPU y SUNARP, el mismo que culminó en el
mes de junio 2004, cumpliéndose uno de los objetivos de fortalecimiento institucional de los
procesos de formalización.

Subcomponente 2.2: Fortalecimiento de la Administración de COFOPRI
Las acciones de este sub componente estuvieron orientadas a fortalecer la administración
de COFOPRI , mejorar los procesos de formalización iniciados en 1996, instalar y equipar
oficinas a nivel nacional y lograr su reconocimiento a nivel nacional e internacional como
exitosa e innovadora en los procesos de formalización.




                                           - 56 -

Alcanzada la meta de formalización, y según lo acordado en la Misión de Supervisión de
Diciembre de 2000, las acciones de este sub componente estuvieron orientadas a realizar
los ajustes necesarios al proceso de formalización, identificar mecanismos de refuerzo del
control de calidad y la gerencia de los procesos, así como a analizar los costos de la
titulación según el tipo de contingencia.

Subcomponente 2.3: Desarrollo Institucional de COFOPRI y RPU
El objetivo de este sub componente fue desarrollar mecanismos y procedimientos, así como
proponer reformas, legales si fuera preciso, que posibiliten sustentar la viabilidad de
COFOPRI y RPU como organizaciones eficientes, auto sostenibles y responsables ante el
público.

Subcomponente 2.4: Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos
El objetivo de este sub componente fue desarrollar capacidades gerenciales en COFOPRI y
RPU, así como también una estrategia de formación de recursos humanos para ambas
organizaciones. Sin embargo, el rápido progreso del Plan Nacional de Formalización, y la
estrategia utilizada, de trasladar personal ya capacitado a las nuevas oficinas para que el
programa de formalización se ejecutara adecuadamente permitió la transferencia de
conocimientos a los nuevos profesionales, hizo innecesario un Plan de Capacitación como
fue inicialmente concebido.

Subcomponente 2.5: Gerencia del Proyecto
El Proyecto fue ejecutado por la Unidad Ejecutora 002 de COFOPRI, creada para tal fin,
dentro de la propia estructura organizativa de COFOPRI.

La estructura incluye un Comité de Gestión del Proyecto conformado por funcionarios del
RPU y COFOPRI, asumiendo este Comité el rol rector del Proyecto.

La Gerencia del Proyecto tuvo a su cargo la coordinación de la ejecución de los estudios,
obras y adquisiciones requeridas para el logro de los objetivos del Plan Nacional de
Formalización. Para ello cuenta con el apoyo de un coordinador administrativo, un
coordinador de finanzas y contabilidad, un coordinador de adquisiciones, un coordinador
del marco legal institucional, y un coordinador de otros componentes. Se incorporó también
un coordinador de comunicaciones.

Componente 3: Conversión de la Propiedad Informal Existente
Este componente apuntó a la rápida conversión de la propiedad informal, brindándole a la
población beneficiada derechos de propiedad seguros, a través de los títulos que son los
productos más visibles del proyecto.

La premisa básica de esta actividad fue la utilización de procesos masivos de titulación y
registro que permitan obtener las ventajas de las economías de escala en la producción así
como también para la generación una masa crítica de beneficiarios. Los sistemas
desarrollados    también contemplaron lo que se denomina "registro esporádico", o la
atención de casos individuales.

Subcomponente 3.2. Implementación del Plan Nacional de Formalización
El objetivo de este sub componente fue registrar 950.000 propiedades y 800.000 títulos de
propiedad individual en las áreas urbanas seleccionadas, meta que fue ampliada en enero



                                           - 57 -

del año 2002 a el empadronamiento de 2.000.000 de propiedades y el registro de
1.500.000 títulos.


5.    Principales Factores que afectan la Implementación del Proyecto y los Efectos

5.1 Factores Internos
El Proyecto fue ejecutado por la Unidad Ejecutora 002 de COFOPRI, creada para tal fin,
dentro de la estructura organizativa de esta institución.

La estructura incluyó un Comité de Gestión del Proyecto conformado por funcionarios del
RPU y COFOPRI, un Director General de Proyecto, cargo que recayó en el Coordinador
Nacional de Formalización, un Gerente de proyecto y Coordinadores (Adquisiciones,
Finanzas y Contabilidad, Administración, Asuntos Socioeconómicos y Comunicaciones) a
cargo de las áreas necesarias para su ejecución. Cabe precisar que en la etapa inicial se
contó con un coordinador de tecnología de la información, puesto que fuera suprimido una
vez ejecutadas las compras de equipo para las dos instituciones co ejecutoras.

La Gerencia del Proyecto tuvo a su cargo la coordinación de la ejecución de los estudios,
obras y adquisiciones requeridas para el logro de los objetivos del Proyecto.

Durante el período de ejecución del proyecto, el Perú sufrió una larga y seria crisis política.
Tres distintas administraciones gobernaron el país entre 1998 y 2004. Obviamente, el
proceso de formalización experimentó altibajos debido a las distintas coyunturas políticas,
pero al final COFOPRI logró demostrar que era una institución que operaba con criterios
técnicos y por lo tanto merecía continuar con sus labores.

5.2 Factores Externos (Perú Proyecto de Derechos de Propiedad Urbana. Comité de Asesoría Internacional. Notas de
la Reunión 13 de Mayo de 2004)


El entorno político afectó el proceso de desarrollo del Proyecto debido a los cambios en la
conducción política de país. Se puede identificar 2 momentos diferenciados: El primero, que
comprende el inicio del proyecto durante el Gobierno de Fujimori (1998) hasta el Gobierno
de Transición (2000).          Esta etapa fue relativamente estable con un claro mandato a
COFOPRI para implementar las actividades del Proyecto. El segundo momento, se inicia
con el Gobierno de Toledo (2001) y se caracteriza por ser menos estable y el mandato a
COFOPRI se restringe, sin embargo incluyó requerimientos para transferir habilidades y
tecnología a Gobiernos Locales, adaptándose COFOPRI a los nuevos requerimientos y
negociando exitosamente convenios con alrededor de 90 Municipios.

El entorno legal cambiante es otro factor que influye en el desarrollo del proyecto. La
dación de la Ley de Descentralización constituye un cambio significativo al transferirse
competencias a los gobiernos regionales y            locales que antes eran asumidas por el
gobierno central.         En este   nuevo escenario    los Gobiernos Locales asumirán un rol
protagónico en la formalización de la propiedad inmueble y COFOPRI les brinda asesoría
técnica y transfiere tecnologías y habilidades. La promoción del desarrollo de capacidades
locales es un gran reto a enfrentar.




                                             - 58 -

6. Agenda Pendiente:

La agenda pendiente debería tener como principal objetivo la consolidación del proceso de
formalización y promover la sostenibilidad de las reformas implementadas que permitieron
la formalización y registro de casi 1.5 millones de propiedades en su primera etapa. Esta
consolidación implica:     (i) resguardar la importante reforma legal que permitió que
COFOPRI titule esa gran cantidad de lotes en asentamientos informales y asegurar que las
reformas legales futuras que tengan un impacto económico en el acceso a la formalidad de
terrenos y en la permanencia de la formalidad no generen un retroceso hacia la
informalidad; (ii) diseñar e implementar un nuevo sistema de formalización, acorde con el
nuevo marco de descentralización en el país y con la naturaleza de la demanda remanente
por formalizar; (iii) mejorar el acceso de la población a servicios registrales de calidad,
unificar los procedimientos registrales en los distintos registros de propiedad inmueble y
mejorar el sistema de catastros; y (iv) continuar los esfuerzos de promoción y crédito en las
zonas formalizadas, los que permitirán aumentar la calidad de vida de los pobladores,
objetivo último de la formalización.

El propósito de la formalización es la regularización de propiedad informal con la intención
de que estas propiedades formalizadas se integren al mercado y permitan que sus
propietarios accedan a inversiones y crédito en condiciones en las que no accederían
indistintamente. Si bien la formalización resuelve el problema de la informalidad ya
existente, no resuelva el problema de fondo: las causas de la informalidad. Esto requiere la
definición de una política de Estado respecto de las invasiones como mecanismo de acceso
a la propiedad y la coordinación de todas aquellas entidades involucradas en la política de
vivienda y desarrollo urbano, y en los derechos de propiedad urbana y en su
implementación a nivel nacional, regional y local. Las causales de la informalidad se
relacionan con la demanda insatisfecha de los pobladores por soluciones de vivienda y
obviamente su solución escapan al mandato de COFOPRI.

Sin embargo, Es importante tener presente que el gobierno ha invertido más de US$80
millones en la formalización de la propiedad urbano marginal en el país, proceso que se
pondría en riesgo si no se convence a la población del país sobre la importancia del registro
de los derechos de propiedad. Sería una lástima que se permita la desactualización de la
información en los registros de propiedad, ya sea porque no se registran las segundas
transacciones o los cambios en las características de los predios. De ocurrir esto, en unos
años enfrentaríamos nuevamente un problema masivo de informalidad de la propiedad y
buena parte de los esfuerzos hechos bajo el proyecto de derechos de propiedad urbana
habrían sido en vano.

Por otro lado, COFOPRI se ha constituido en una de las entidades con mayor conocimiento
y experiencia sobre los procesos de formalización a nivel mundial. Sería muy lamentable
que estas habilidades y experiencia se pierdan. Asimismo, COFOPRI y SUNARP han
invertido ingentes recursos para promover los beneficios de una cultura registral. Es
importante seguir construyendo sobre la base de esta experiencia.

Por lo tanto, se debe continuar apoyando las actividades de formalización de COFOPRI
para expandir los beneficios de la misma a nuevos usuarios y a nuevas áreas, en el
contexto del proceso de descentralización. COFOPRI debería modificar sus procedimientos
y metas de formalización para que se ajusten a las nuevas realidades del país: la



                                           - 59 -

formalización masiva ya se hizo y lo que queda por formalizar involucra ciudades y pueblos
más pequeños donde la formalización sólo hace sentido si es efectiva en términos de
costo.

Hay otros temas pendientes en la agenda que el Gobierno debe encarar, tales como: la
falta de un mecanismo de política integral sobre derechos de propiedad que permita tener
un derrotero de mediano plazo; la necesidad de avanzar en la integración espacial y legal
de los títulos de tierras así como la unificación del sistema de registros de predios; la
consolidación del proceso de formalización, incluyendo áreas remanentes selectas y el
monitoreo y evaluación de los resultados de la formalización a través de un mayor acceso a
créditos, inversiones y vivienda. Se tiene que asignar una alta prioridad al diseño y a la
implementación de políticas integrales de derechos de propiedad. Se debe de generar
también un marco operativo donde se coordinen iniciativas que permitan la formulación e
implementación de estas políticas. Los principios clave que deberán guiar las requeridas
reformas legales, regulatorias e institucionales incluyen: aceptar que la seguridad en los
derechos de propiedad es un servicio público que debe ser proveído por el estado;
reconocer que la tierra es un activo básico para los pobres y debe ser protegida a través de
un esquema integral que tome en consideración reglas formales e informales existentes;
aceptar que el fortalecimiento de la capacidad institucional en los distintos niveles de
gobierno es esencial para garantizar la calidad y oportuna distribución de los servicios de
formalización; y por último tomar en cuenta la importancia del intercambio de información
con los usuarios para promover la transparencia y sostenibilidad del proceso.

También se debería promover la implementación de una comisión o agencia
inter-institucional de alto nivel que se constituya en el defensor de los derechos de
propiedad en el Perú y en el gestor de los cambios en las políticas de los derechos de
propiedad y en el diseño e implementación del marco institucional y legal. Una institución
de esa naturaleza sería muy importante para promover la formalización a todo nivel en el
país y para implementar políticas que inhiban las invasiones.

Personal de COFOPRI al cierre del Proyecto:
ü Carolina Rouillon G., Coordinadora Nacional de la Formalización y Directora General
del Proyecto Derechos de Propiedad Urbana.
ü Carlos Ortiz De Zevallos E. Gerente General de COFOPRI
ü Gloria Pflucker, Gerente de Planeamiento y Operaciones de COFOPRI
ü Guillermo Gastañeta C., Gerente de Proyecto
ü Eliana Bardales, Coordinadora de Finanzas y Contabilidad
ü Virginia Cachay E., Coordinadora de Administración
ü Felipe Morris G., Coordinador de Asuntos Socioeconómicos
ü Giovana Nuñez, Coordinadora de Comunicaciones




                                          - 60 -

Referencias Documentales

ü Guidelines for Preparing Implementation and Completion Reports (ICRs).

ü Informes de Gestión del Proyecto período 2000-2004.

ü Documento de Evaluación del Proyecto sobre un Préstamo Propuesto Equivalente a
US$ 38 millones a la República del Perú para un Proyecto Derechos de Propiedad Urbana,
de fecha 15 de julio de 1998. Reducción de la Pobreza y Unidad Administrativa Económico.
Unidad Administrativa de Bolivia, Paraguay y Perú.

ü Proyecto de Publicación "Formalización en Asentamientos Humanos u Otras
Posesiones Informales que tienen Superposición o Colindancia con Zonas Arqueológicas".
Jefatura de Zonas de Patrimonio Cultural. COFOPRI. Octubre 2003.




                                          - 61 -

Additional Annex 9. Results on the Ground

"A Short Tour to the Urban Property Rights Project": See attached DVD




                                        - 62 -

- 63 -

