Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4384-PE
Loan Agreement
(Urban Property Rights Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4384-PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1998 between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Comisión de Formalización de la 
Propiedad Informal (COFOPRI) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to COFOPRI the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; 
(C)
the Bank has received from the Minister of Finance and Economy and the 
Minister of Transport, Communications, Housing and Construction a statement, dated 
July 15, 1998, describing their objectives, policies and actions concerning the 
titling and registration of informal property in Perú (the Program) and declaring 
their commitment to such objectives, policies and actions; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined) of even date herewith;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Advisory Committee" means the committee of experts (Comité de 
Asesoramiento), as provided in Article 55 of the COFOPRI Bylaws (as hereinafter 
defined), for purposes of advising COFOPRI and RPU on the implementation of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual; 
(b)
"Annual Operating Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section 
2.06 (c) of the Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined), as approved by the Bank; 
(c)
"Collaboration Agreement"  means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to be entered into between COFOPRI and RPU pursuant to Section 2.04 (b) of the Project 
Agreement;
(d) 
"COFOPRI" means the Comisión de Formalización de la Propiedad Informal, 
the commission for the formalization of informal property established by the 
Borrower’s Decreto Legislativo 803 dated March 15, 1996, as amended, and published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 22, 1996;
(e)
"COFOPRI By-laws"  means the by-laws, estatutos, of COFOPRI approved 
through the Borrower’s Decreto Supremo No. 014-98-MTC dated June 15, 1998 and 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated June 17, 1998, as amended from time 
to time;
(f) 
"COFOPRI Law" means the Borrower’s Decreto Legislativo 803, dated March 
15, 1996, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on March 22, 1996, as 
amended from time to time and including all regulations thereto and the COFOPRI 
By-laws;
(g)
"Informal Settlements" means each of the informal urban settlements in 
the Project Area, defined as asentamientos humanos, urbanizaciones populares de 
interés social, cooperativas de vivienda, asociaciones de vivienda and centro urbano 
informal, under the COFOPRI Law and further described in the Operational Manual;
(h)
"Key Positions" means the following positions within the organizational 
structure of COFOPRI and RPU: (i) in the case of COFOPRI, the Gerente de Proyecto, 
Coordinador de Finanzas y Contabilidad, Coordinador de Administración, Coordinador de 
Adquisiciones, Coordinador de Tecnología de la Información, Coordinador del Marco 
Legal e Institucional, Coordinador de Otros Componentes, Gerente de Planeamiento y 
Operaciones , Gerente de Titulación, Gerente de Campo and Gerente de Declaración  de 
Propiedad; (ii) in the case of RPU, the Gerente Registral and Gerente de Sistemas del 
Registro Predial Urbano; as such positions are provided and described in the COFOPRI 
By-laws and the Operational Manual;
(i)
"Legislation" means the COFOPRI Law, the RPU Law and other laws and 
regulations relevant to the registration and titling of informal property under the 
Project;
(j)
"National Formalization Plan" means the Borrower’s plan for the 
registration and titling of informal property in Perú, including the methodology and  
procedures applicable to such registration and titling, as such plan is contained in 
the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined); 
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the set of rules and procedures, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to be approved  by COFOPRI and RPU pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, for the management and implementation of the Project including, inter alia, 
the personnel and terms of reference of COFOPRI and RPU assigned to the Project; terms 
of reference, model contracts and remuneration scales for all consultants to be 
retained under the Project;  contractual and administrative arrangements for the 
coordination and execution of the Project and flow of funds and monitoring and 
evaluation procedures in respect of the Project;
(l) 
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and COFOPRI of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(m)
"Project Area" means the Borrower’s Departamentos, departments of 
Chiclayo, Chimbote, Piura, Trujillo, Arequipa, Huaraz, Iquitos and Lima or any other 
additional or substitute department as may be agreed between the Borrower and the 
Page  3
Bank;
(n)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan for the implementation of 
the Project as set forth in the document, satisfactory to the Bank, dated April 3, 
1998 as such document may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank 
and COFOPRI;
(o)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators of Project performance and 
impact as set forth in the letter from COFOPRI  to the Bank of even date herewith; 
(p) 
"RPU" means the Borrower’s Registro Predial Urbano, urban public 
registry, established by the Borrower’s Decreto Legislativo 495 dated November 14, 
1988, and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on November 15, 1988; and
(q) 
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and COFOPRI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
eight million dollars ($38,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
Page  4
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on February 15 and 
August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement: 
(i) shall cause COFOPRI and RPU to perform all of their respective obligations set 
forth in the Project Agreement and the Collaboration Agreement; (ii)  shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable COFOPRI and RPU to perform 
such obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to COFOPRI under an  
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and COFOPRI, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
COFOPRI pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
COFOPRI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
COFOPRI or RPU shall have failed to perform any of their obligations 
under the Collaboration Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that COFOPRI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
waived in any manner so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the 
Bank, the ability of COFOPRI to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Collaboration Agreement or the ability of RPU to perform any of its 
obligations under the Collaboration Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of COFOPRI or RPU or for the 
suspension of any of their operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of the 
respective parties thereto;
(b)
that the Collaboration Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of 
the respective parties thereto;
(c)
that COFOPRI shall have established and made operational a financial 
management system satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
that COFOPRI and RPU have approved the Operational Manual;
(e)
that COFOPRI and RPU have retained personnel for each of the Key 
Positions with experience, qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank;
(f)
that RPU has put into effect, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, adjustments to all of its user fees as agreed with the Bank; and
(g)
that COFOPRI has put into effect, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, a fee for the issuance of titles in accordance with the criteria and rate 
agreed with the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, with the meaning 
of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement and the 
Collaboration Agreement shall have been duly authorized or ratified by the respective 
parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with their 
respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 7, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Jirón Junín 319
Lima 1
Perú
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names, in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ 
Jorge Baca Campodónico 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
11,120,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
23,540,000
100% of foreign
Services expenditures 
and
and Training
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Operating
 3,340,000
50% 
Costs
TOTAL
38,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees; (iv) subsistence expenses for trainees; (v) 
scholarships and fellowships for training courses locally or abroad; and (vi) study 
tours and internships locally or abroad; and
(d)
the term "Operating Costs" means expenditures for transportation and 
communication services, office rentals and maintenance, office materials and supplies, 
printing and documents reproduction services and vehicles operation and maintenance 
required by COFOPRI and RPU for the implementation and supervision of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,500,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 
1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
Page  8
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services under consulting contracts with 
individuals costing $50,000 equivalent or less; (c) services under consulting 
contracts with firms costing $100,000 equivalent or less; (d) Training; and (e) 
Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the issuance of formal 
and sustainable property rights to real property in Informal Settlements in the 
Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Urban Property Market Reforms 
1.
Provision of legal advisory services to assist COFOPRI in conducting analytical 
studies, and drafting of necessary laws and regulations to: (a) enhance the 
accessibility of the property formalization process in areas such as property 
delineation, land administration, transactions costs and conflict resolution methods; 
and (b) enhance the market use of the property rights issued under the Project.
2.
Development of a conceptual basis to evaluate the economic and social impact of 
the Project through the carrying out of household surveys, land value assessments, 
studies and client surveys.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
A program to strengthen the institutional capabilities of RPU through: (a) the 
establishment and operation of management information systems; (b) design and 
implementation of a customer relations and services program; and (c) the formulation 
of a long-term strategy.
2.
A program to strengthen the institutional capabilities of COFOPRI through: (a) 
the establishment and operation of management operations systems; (b) the production 
of base mapping and cadastral plans; (c) design and implementation of a customer 
relations and services program; (d) office refurnishing; and (e) upgrading of 
equipment in the cartographic unit.
3.
A program to develop mechanisms to improve the viability and efficiency of 
COFOPRI and RPU including: (a) the development and establishment of accountability 
mechanisms; (b) studies and measures to improve their respective budgetary and 
administrative autonomy; (c) development and establishment of public consultation 
mechanisms; (d) development and implementation of a strategy for the functioning of 
RPU and RPI; and (e) development and implementation of a long-term strategy for 
COFOPRI.
4.
A program of human resource development consisting of: (a) training of COFOPRI 
and RPU staff in the operation of registry systems, map surveying and management; and 
(b) the design and implementation of a human resources management strategy.
Part C:
Property Formalization
1.
Improvement of COFOPRI’s activities in the collection and analysis of property 
related data through the updating of its computerized process management control 
system and the carrying out of technical audits on data collected and stored under the 
National Formalization Plan.
2.
Issuance and registration of about 800,000 titles to real property, and 
registration of about 950,000 property lots, in accordance with the National 
Formalization Plan through, inter alia: (a) the contracting of consulting firms to 
evaluate the physical and legal status of the land occupied by the respective Informal 
Settlements; (b) the contracting of consulting firms and/or individual technical 
experts to  identify the individual possesors of the respective lands, collect 
evidence of possesion and determine eligibility for transfer of title; (c) contracting 
of additional RPU registars, registradores,  (to be financed with local counterpart 
funds) to carry out the appropriate registration of the titles issued by COFOPRI; and 
Page  9
(d) acquisition and utilization of mapping, equipment and vehicles.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 2004
1,585,000
through   February 15, 2015
and on August 15, 2015
1,545,000
__________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) or (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  10
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  11
