                                                                                                                      92555
Peru: Entitled to a Future                                                                                            May 3, 2004
                       With the approval and participation of community leaders, 1.45 million
                                                                                                            -- Resources --
                       informal urban homesteaders in 13 cities across Peru were given title to
                       the property on which they had settled.  With this single asset, people like         Full Story (PDF)
                                                                                                            English | Spanish 
                       Juan Antón Saaverdá in Lima, a 43 year old master woodworker, was
                                                                                                            Audio clip
                       able to take out a loan to improve his house and to build his business.
                                                                                                            Project

                                                                                                            The World Bank in Peru

                                                                                                            Also available in:
                                                                                                            Español | Français



                                        “I have the security to pass on something to my children.”
                                                                          --Sergio Valencia Saldivar
For millions of poor Peruvians who flocked to informal settlements on the outskirts of the country’s
cities, a World Bank-backed project to grant them formal title to their properties has given them hope
for a better future. With formal title, they have been able to take out loans to improve their houses
and start businesses. And for Sergio Valencia Saldivar, a community leader in the settlement of
Huaycan on Lima’s northern city limits, it has meant that he will be able to pass something on to his
children. “My situation has improved 100 percent,” he says.


                        “It took us years and years to save up all these bricks.”
                        --Valentina Gutierrez Rios
                        Los Olivos, outside Lima, Peru, looked like a moonscape when Valentina Gutierrez Rios and her
                        family set up a home there. Brick by brick, she and her family made their house rise out of the
                        landscape of shale and boulders. “We dug out the rock by hand and then laid the foundations.” After
                        16 years, the house is still incomplete because she had to build it a brick at a time. She had no
                        assets. In 2001, Gutierrez Rios, a widow, gained ownership of her house under a program to grant
                        formal land title to urban immigrants. Now she has collateral to obtain finance to pay a builder or buy
                        materials.


                                                          “We are very proud of what we have done.”
                                                                               --Juan Antón Saavedra
After 30 years of living in Lima’s oldest “informal” settlement, Villa El Salvador, a grant of land title
changed master woodworker Juan Antón Saavedra’s life. He took out a loan of $3,000 against the
value of his house and, with the money, built a roof and enclosed two rooms that now comprise a
kitchen and a bathroom. Six hundred other families did similar things. With a secure place to live,
Saavedra, a community leader, is looking for other ways to improve life in the settlement. “We can’t
be content with what we have. We need to get beyond these four walls. We are very proud of what
we have done.”


                        “It has made a big difference to me.”
                        --Sabino Mamani-Mestas
                        Sabino Mamani-Mestas, 45, took out a $900 loan to buy three sewing machines after he was given
                        formal title to his house in the settlement of Huaycan on Lima’s northern outskirts. “Now I am a
                        tailor,” he says. “I start work at four or five in the morning and make about 2.5 soles [$0.80] per pair
                        of trousers...This is my only means of sustaining my family, and it has made a big difference to me. I
                        hope to build this business to pass on to my children.”


Updated May, 2004
