Docunment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2436-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
December 20, 1978
This documnt has a resticted disthibuti o u   ay be med by reiplents ondy in the perfomance of
their ofki duties. its contes may not oerwie be discied without World Bnk utbhorzaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00                  -         TSh 8.0
TSh 1.0                  =         US$0.12
(As the Tanzanian Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of
9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate
is subject to change. Conversions in this Report were made at
US$1.00 to TSh 8.0 which is close to the 1978 average exchange rate.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASSI            Aktiebolaget Statens Skogsindustrier
BIS             Basic Industial Strategy
CDC             Commonwealth Development Corporation
Company         Southern Paper Mills Company
Government      Government of Tanzania
EAC             East African Community
ha              Hectare
KF              Kuwait Fund
KfW             Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NDC             National Development Corporation
NIB             Nordic Investment Bank
OPECSF          OPEC Special Fund
SIDA            Swedish International Development Authority
TAZARA          Tanzania Zambia Railway
TIB             Tanzania Investment Bank
TPA              tons per annum
FISCAL YEAR
Government                  -      July 1 to June 30
NDC & Subsidiaries          -      January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA:  MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:               United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARIES:          National Development Corporation (NDC)
Southern Paper Mills Company (The Company)
AMOUNT:                 Loan:    US$30 million
Credit:  US$30 million
TERMS:                  Loan:    20 years, including 5 years of grace at an
annual interest rate of 7.35%.
Credit:  Standard
COFINANCING:            The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) is
providing a loan of US$20 million equivalent for
20 years including 5 years of grace at an annual
interest rate of 8-1/2%; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW) is providing a grant of US$34 million equivalent;
the Kuwait Fund (KF) is providing a loan of US$18
million equivalent for 24 years including 6 years of
grace at an annual interest rate of 4%; the Nordic
Investment Bank (NIB) is providing a loan of US$12.5
million equivalent on terms which will be determined by
the country of supply (likely terms are 15 years
including 5 years of grace at an annual interest rate
of 8%); the OPEC Special Fund (OPECSF) is providing a
total of US$10.5 million equivalent, a credit of US$5
million equivalent for 20 years including 5 years of
grace with a service charge of 0.75% and US$5.5 million
equivalent in counterpart funds from their previous
operations in Tanzania; and the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA) is providing a grant of
US$45 million equivalent.
RELENDING TERMS:        US$9.9 million equivalent of the IDA credit and the
entire IBRD loan will be relent to the Company for
16 years including 5 years of grace at an annual
interest rate of 10%. US$20.1 million equivalent
of the IDA Credit will be passed on to the Company
as equity.
PROJECT                 The project consists of the establishment of an integ-
DESCRIPTION:             rated pulp and paper mill with an initial capacity of
60,000 tons per annum of paper and board as well as
1,400 tons of pulp for sale outside the mill. Facil-
ities to be provided include: logging roads and equip-
ment, a chemical pulp mill with a bleach plant, a
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



mechanical pulp mill, two paper machines with asso-
ciated stock preparation and paper finishing equipment,
steam and power generation equipment, a chlorine and
caustic soda plant, related pollution abatement equip-
ment, and some supporting infrastructure. The mill
will be located near the Sao Hill forest area, 15 km
south of Mufindi in south-central Tanzania, some 590 km
from its major market of Dar es Salaam. The primary
risk of the project is NDC's ability to implement it
in an efficient manner: substantial technical
assistance as well as the considerable project pre-
paration work should adequately address this risk.
(US$ million)
ESTIMATED COST: 1/                                         Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                           6.6       15.5     22.1
Machinery and Equipment               0.1       77.0     77.1
Freight and Insurance (inland)        2.7         -       2.7
Erection and Construction Overhead  9.4         22.2     31.6
Engineering and Project Management  3.0         15.6     18.6
TOTAL PLANT                          21.8     130.3    152.1
Logging Capital                        .6        3.5      4.1
Rail Spur                             2.1         -       2.1
Housing                               1.3         .3      1.6
Misc. Expenses,
Technical Assistance                3.7       8.0      11.7
BASE COSTS                           29.5     142.1    171.6
Physical Contingencies                2.9      14.1      17.0
Price Contingencies                   6.6      22.5      29.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  39.0     178.7    217.7
Working Capital                       4.0       2.7       6.7
Interest During Construction         15.1      12.2      27.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED             58.1     193.6    251.7
I/   Because this project will be exempt from import duties, taxes are
negligible.



- iii -
FINANCING PLAN:
US$ million             _
CDC                                   20.0                    8
Government/NDC/Local Banks            51.7                   20
IBRD                                  30.0                  12
IDA                                   30.0                  12
KfW                                   34.0                   14
KF                                     18.0                   7
NIB                                    12.5                   5
OPECSF                                10.5                    4
SIDA                                  45.0                  18
TOTAL                                251.7                  100
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:
US$ million
IBRD/IDA FY               79       80      81       82       83
Annual                    4.7      9.5   22.3    19.0       4.5
Cumulative                4.7    14.2   36.5    55.5    60.0
RATE OF RETURN:               11.3%
APPRAISAL REPORT:            No. 1929-TA dated December 14, 1978






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan of US$30.0 million equivalent and a proposed credit of US$30.0 million
equivalent to the United Republic of Tanzania to help finance the Mufindi
Pulp and Paper Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years including
5 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 7.35% and the credit would be
on standard IDA terms. The grant element of the combined IBRD loan and IDA
credit is just under 50%. IBRD/IDA funds totalling US$39.9 million would be
onlent to the Southern Paper Mlills Company (the Company) for a period of 16
years including 5 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 10%; UJS$20.1
million in IDA funds will be passed on to the Company as equity. In addition
to the IBRD/IDA funds and the total domestic financing of US$51.7 million,
the United Republic of Tanzania is arranging financing totaling about US$140
million from other sources. The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
is providing US$20 million equivalent for 20 years including 5 years of grace
at an annual interest rate of 8-1/2%. Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)
is providing a grant of US$34 million equivalent; the Kuwait Fund (KF) is
providing a loan of US$18 million equivalent for 24 years including 6 years
of grace at an annual interest rate of 4%; the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) is
providing a loan of US$12.5 million equivalent at terms which will depend on
the country of supply (likely terms are 15 years including 5 years of grace
at an annual interest rate of 8%); the OPEC Special Fund (OPECSF) is providing
a total of US$10.5 million equivalent, a credit of US$5 million equivalent
for 20 years including 5 years of grace with a service charge of 0.75% and
US$5.5 million equivalent in counterpart funds from their previous operations
in Tanzania; and the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) is
providing a grant of US$45 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Reports
on the Sixth Education and Tourism Rehabilitation Projects, both dated
November 29, 1978.



-2-
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the twenty-five least developed countries in
the world with a per capita income in 1977 of US$200. The economy is still
heavily dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in
agriculture and approximately 40% of GDP and two-thirds of total exports are
derived from agricultural production. Average rural incomes are much below
average urban incomes and there is considerable regional variation in rural
incomes owing largely to differences in climate and land fertility. Overall
population density is low, although a few areas are considered overpopulated.
Population growth is estimated at 2.7% per annum with both fertility and
mortality at relatively high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, and wholesale trade are under state
control. Controls are used extensively to direct economic activity, including
import licencing, foreign exchange control, price control, the reservation of
some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and detailed Government
investment planning. The second major feature of Tanzania's development
strategy is its consistent emphasis on rural development and social programs
to benefit the poor. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provisih.q-i
of rural water supplies and health services and in the decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education by 1977. The Government policy of
settling rural population into villages, villagization, is an important
element in its attempt to facilitate the provision of economic and social
services in rural areas.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1967-77 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.6%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure of
rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, reasonable growth
resumed with the improved weather in 1976 and 1977.
6.        The Government has an impressive record of domestic resource
mobilization.  Between 1966-67 and 1976-77 the share of recurrent revenue
rose from 14.3% to 20.2% of GDP. This has been achieved through a combina-
tion of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75,
the rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings
fluctuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960's through 1973, fell to
half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis level
in 1976-77. These are extremely high levels of savings for a country at
Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. While between 1969 and
1975 the average urban-rural gap remained approximately constant, it is
likely that the gap has now been slightly reduced due to continued recovery



-3-
of agricultural production and higher producer prices. Within the urban
sector there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differen-
tial between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage earners
from 50 to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, the overall formal urban
sector earnings structure has remained relatively stable while a large in-
formal sector has emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed, under-
employed and other workers with earnings significantly below the official
urban minimum wage. The policies of wage restraint and higher producer
prices pursued since 1975 should have a beneficial impact on almost all
dimensions of income distribution and the basic needs oriented programs in
rural water, health and primary education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a
significant redirection in public expanditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite satisfactory performance on growth, domestic resource
mobilization, and income distribution there are other areas in which per-
formance has been less than satisfactory. The most problematic long-term
trend is the slow growth of agricultural production. From 1967-77 agri-
culture grew at an annual rate of 2.7%, the same as the rate of growth of
population. In the past three years agricultural growth has been higher,
but this primarily represents recovery to the long-term trend from the poor
harvests in 1973-1974. In addition, the recovery has been largely limited to
subsistence agriculture; monetary agricultural production was only 2.2% higher
in 1977 than in 1972.
9.        Slow agricultural growth has been largely responsible for a second
problem, the disappointing slow growth of export volume. While the total
volume of exports of goods and services was 7.7% higher in 1976 than in 1966,
the volume of exports of goods alone was actually lower in 1976 than a decade
earlier. From 1966-71, the volume of exports of goods and services grew at
7.7% per year, but this was followed by a decline after 1971, a sharp drop
in 1974, and only a partial recovery by 1976. Increased levels of foreign
assistance and high coffee prices have mitigated the worst effects of the
decline in export volume, but Government authorities have been forced to
impose stricter import controls; among other things, this has had a particu-
larly adverse effect on industrial production.
Recent Economic Performance
10.       The economy continued its recovery from the oil crisis and drought
in 1977. Total GDP increased by 5.9% while agricultural production increased
by 5.6%. There was no significant change in export volume but the boom in
coffee prices helped raise mainland commodity export receipts from TSh 3,828
million in 1976 to TSh 4,585 million in 1977. External reserves were US$280
million at the end of 1977 but dropped to US$200 million by May 1978 largely
as a result of falling coffee prices. This is equivalent to three months
imports at the 1977 level.
11.       Recovery has been aided by good economic management.  The Govern-
ment has continued to adhere to the principal elements of the policy package
introduced in late 1974 at the time of appraisal and negotiation of the
Program Loan (No. 1063-TA). These include reallocation of investment in



-4-
favor of directly productive sectors, higher agricultural producer prices,
constraints on wages and salaries, and price and tax increases to restrain
private consumption. Since mid-1976 the Government has also succeeded in
bringing Government spending under control and has begun to relax import
controls. Because excessive Government spending and borrowing from the
banking system was threatening to undermine financial stability and the
economic recovery in early 1976, a program of budgetary control was developed
by the Government; in early 1977 this was supported by IMF assistance and a
Program Credit (No. 688-TA). Through the introduction of new budgetarv control
measures and the reimposition of a progressive tax on coffee exports, the
Government was able to reduce Government debt to the banking system and in
1977-78 hold bank borrowing to nearly zero. The Program Credit was also
designed to support selected relaxation of import controls in order to
provide needed imports of spare parts and raw materials for increased capacity
utilization. After some delays, the availability of essential maintenance
imports has increased.
12.       In addition, the Government has experimented in recent months with
measures to increase labor productivity. These have included layoffs of
redundant workers and consultancy studies of the operational problems of
individual firms. Of potentially greater importance, in his Budget Speech in
June 1978 the Minister of Finance called for the immediate adoption of
payment-by-result wage systems to stimulate productivity.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance
on concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania and the Government's refusal to use higher cost
commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service ratio has
remained low. Including a notional 40% share of the debt of the East African
Community Corporations, it was less than 8% in 1977. Bank Group debt as a
percentage of Tanzania's total debt was about 26% in 1977; this is projected
to rise to about 29% in 1985 and remain stable thereafter. While the favor-
able terms of much of Tanzania's foreign assistance (particularly the increas-
ing proportion of grants) significantly reduce the debt service burden, they
also increase Bank Group exposure. Debt service payments to the Bank Group
were about 28.6% of Tanzania's total debt service payments in 1977, and are
projected to rise to approximately 30% in 1980.
14.       Tanzania has a suitable development program which will require sub-
stantial domestic funds in excess of local savings and external capital. In
view of our support for the Government's increased emphasis on local cost
intensive rural investments and the importance of not aggravating the local
funds shortage, local cost financing is justified on country grounds.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The major developments in the East African Community were out-
lined in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
is continuing his work on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC



-5-
Corporations. The de facto breakup of the Commiunity is expected to have some
impact on Tanzania's budget as new national corporations take over the ser-
vices formerly provided by the EAC Corporations. While substantial invest-
ments have been made in the formation of the national airways corporation and
the rehabilitation of the railways, the burden on the Government budget should
be temporary as these corporations are expected to become self-financing. A
major development related to the EAC difficultiLes was the closure of the border
with Kenya: Kenya was a major trading partner of Tanzania and in the short
run considerable adjustments have had to be made in locating new suppliers for
some items and developing alternative outlets for numerous manufactured goods
and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
16.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 36 IDA credits, 16 Bank loans including
two on Third Window terms amounting to US$630.5 million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans
totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of the
common services and the development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.  IFC
investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero
Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial diffi-
culties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Com-
pany to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.75 million in soap
manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June 8,
1978. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as of
October 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Consistent with Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits
made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. The overwhelming
majority of the operations approved since then have been for directly produc-
tive projects. Furthermore, a number of Bank Group supported infrastructure
projects have been closely linked with specific productive activities. For
example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in January
1977, will support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and
1386-TA) and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit No.
833-TA). Directly productive projects recentLy approved include the Second
Cashewnut Processing Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling Project
(Credit No. 802-TA), and the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project (Credit
No. 803-TA). The first Bank Group assisted project in the forestry sector,
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Sixth Education and Tourism Rehabilitation Projects, both dated
November 29, 1978.



-6-
the Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), approved in July 1976, will
provide the raw materials for the proposed project.  Projects which have been
appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, a Smallholder Tea
Consolidation Project and lines of credit to the Tanzania Rural Development
Bank, the Tanzania Investment Bank and the Tanganyika Development Finance
Limited. A rural development project in Mara, a harbours project, and an
agricultural services project are also under preparation.
18.       Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than projected. It is clear in
retrospect that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic re-
garding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in
implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained
and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in identifying agronomic
input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder farmers while others
result from the strains associated with attempting a "frontal attack" on
poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent and drastic admi-
nistrative changes, which -- although potentially the source of long-term
benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. In general, difficulties have
been most severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural
sector. As our lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector,
these problems have become correspondingly more apparent. By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mwanza Textile, Morogoro Industrial Estate and Cashewnut Processing
Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
19.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted with Government officials in Dar es Salaam in
1973 and again in 1978 on Bank Group procurement procedures. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
nine Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank
Group agricultural projects. The need to establish a close and continuous
working level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group
staff on implementation problems was one of the prime reasons for the expan-
sion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in October 1976. In Feb-
ruary 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group review of project implementation
was established: discussions on the Bank Group program chaired by the
Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank Group staff and officials from
implementing agencies were to be held on a quarterly basis. Steps to
strengthen this review process were taken in August 1977 when these discus-
sions were shifted to a monthly basis. The Government also agreed that
periodically the reviews should be conducted on an "in-depth" basis to discuss
in detail individual problem projects and problems which are affecting project
implementation across a number of sectors. As a result of these reviews, a
number of positive developments have been noted: most actions agreed to



- 7 -
have been completed and coordination and communication between Finance and
the various ministries and agencies responsible for project implementation
have improved markedly.
20.       The Government has also become increasingly conscious of the
importance of implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, the Ministry of Finance has now set up an
internal unit to oversee project performance. Furthermore, there have
been more consistent responses to Bank Group suggestions and a willingness to
openly discuss project problems raised by Bank Group staff. As a consequence,
the disbursement record of Bank Group projects has improved somewhat over the
last two years, and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disburse-
ment performance is about equal to the Bank-wide average.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
21.       At the time of independence in 1961, Tanzania had a rudimentary
industrial sector which contributed less than 5% to GDP and was mainly
confined to simple processing of export items such as cotton, sisal, and
coffee; cotton ginning was the largest single manufacturing activity.
22.       With the new orientation of economic policies after the Arusha
Declaration of 1967 (para. 4), industrial development became a major concern
of the Government, the primary focus being on import substitution in essential
consumer goods and meeting the basic needs of the population. Existing major
manufacturing plants were brought under the newly established Government
parastatals (companies), and these parastatals became the leading investors
in medium and larger scale industrial units. By 1974, parastatals accounted
for an estimated 50% of new capital formation and 50% of manufacturing value
added. However, even with the increase in parastatal activity, the private
sector remains an important participant in industry (430 of 500 factories
with over 10 employees are in private hands.)
23.       The expansion of public ownership of manufacturing enterprises
(there are currently six parastatals under the Ministry of Industry) has
been accompanied by increasing reliance on direct controls in allocation
decisions. Components of the control system include centralized decision
making on investments, detailed allocations of foreign exchange through
import licensing, credit allocations according to the annual Finance and
Credit Plan, wage setting, and price controls.
24.       The growth of industry until 1973 was quite significant, reaching
an average annual rate of 9.4% in real terms between 1964 and 1973. During
this period, the share of manufacturing in GDP at current prices rose from
nearly 7% to 11.5% and by 1973 almost half of the total supply of manufac-
tured goods in Tanzania was produced locally. Particularly rapid advances
were made in import substitution of consumer goods, which represented about
60% of the total output of large and medium scale manufacturing firms in 1973.



-8-
After a decade of significant growth, however, the manufacturing sector
stagnated during 1974 and 1975 because of steep increases in the prices of
imported commodities, the acute balance of payments problem, and shortages
of water and power. Industry has subsequently recovered from the economic
crisis and a real industrial growth rate of over 5% was achieved in 1976 and
1977.
25.       While this record of increasing output would seem to indicate
satisfactory industrial performance, a detailed analysis of Tanzania's
record in the manufacturing sector reveals some problems, specifically
low productivity and output well below what is feasible given the level of
investment in the sector. The problems underlying this suboptimal performance
are many. First of all, the Government has not yet developed the administra-
tive capability to monitor and coordinate effectively the control systems
which were instituted along with increased public ownership of manufacturing
enterprises (para. 23). While the Government believes these controls are
needed to achieve its development goals, their effect has largely been to
insulate public enterprises from the discipline of market forces. Secondly,
performance indicators consistent with the control systems and clear guide-
lines for evaluating performance are still lacking; managers and workers,
therefore, have few motivating incentives. Finally, there is a scarcity
of trained managerial personnel and skilled labor, and most enterprises have
had to live with periodic shortages of other key inputs.
26.       These issues have been raised in various Bank reports on the
Tanzanian industrial sector and were a particular focus of the review of the
Basic Economic Report in November 1977. Considerable discussions have taken
place within Tanzania on possible solutions and a number of positive steps
have been taken. An important recent development was the Government's decision
to institute trial incentive systems; in parallel it has indicated that future
wage increases will be closely tied to increases in productivity (para. 12).
In addition, parastatal managers are now being held accountable for perform-
ance, steps have been taken to loosen or remove import controls on spare parts
and raw materials, there has been retrenchment in overmanned parastatals, a
limit has been placed on allowable increases in overhead costs of manufactur-
ing firms which approach the National Price Commission for price increases,
and foreign consultants have been hired to advise on how to achieve opera-
tional/ managerial improvements. Finally, the Government's recent statement
encouraging private investment in Tanzania is expected to have a significant
effect in mobilizing incremental financial and human resources for the indus-
trial sector.
Basic Industrial Strategy and the Third Five-Year Plan
27.       Future development of the sector will be based on the Basic Indus-
trial Strategy (BIS) which was adopted in 1974 by the Government. The two
main goals of this strategy are structural transformation and self-reliance
and its main emphasis is on the use of domestic resources for domestic needs.
This involves giving top priority in investment allocations to industries
supplying (i) basic needs of food, shelter, health, education and transport,
and (ii) producer goods which contribute to the production of a wide range



of industrial products. However, as it has emerged, BIS will also permit
expansion of export-oriented production, especially that based on domestic
raw materials (for example, cashew processing, sisal spinning, textile manu-
facturing, and meat and leather processing). The Basic Economic Report sup-
ported the BIS but dealt at length with some of its potential problems. In
particular, it highlighted the fact that attempts to restructure the economy
too quickly during the present period of resource stringency may ultimately
frustrate both growth and structural change. In addition, too rapid expansion
of individual sectors may lead to excessive reliance on external finance,
know-how and markets, and the massive investment coordination required by the
strategy may overburden the country's already weak planning capacity.
28.       The recently published Third Five-Year Plan (FY1977-81) envisages
an investment program of about TSh 23 billion, of which about 27% will go
to the manufacturing sector. Industrial projects earmarked for development/
implementation under the Plan are mainly based on Tanzania's domestic re-
sources. Among the sizeable industrial projects involved are the Bank Group
financed polyester textile mill and industrial estate at Morogoro (para. 17)
and the proposed project.
National Development Corporation and the Southern Paper Mills Company
29.       The National Development Corporation (NDC), which is sponsoring the
project, was established in 1964 with its headquarters in Dar es Salaam. It
is Tanzania's largest parastatal holding company and the country's principal
instrument for industrial investment.
30.       NDC is run by a Managing Director who also serves as Chairman of
the nine-man Board of Directors. The Board functions as a policy making body
for NDC as well as a liaison and coordinating group between NDC and the Gov-
ernment. The influence of the Government on long-term planning is strong,
although there is little involvement in day-to-day operational matters where
decisions are left to the operating companies (paras. 31 and 32). NDC's staff
totals 247 of which 108 are professionals (including 19 expatriates) serving
in five operating departments: (i) Planning and Finance; (ii) Account-
ing; (iii) Manpower Development; (iv) Administration; and (v) Industrial
Development.
31.       The overall capitalization of the NDC Group is sound with a debt/
equity ratio of 12/88. The Group holds shares in 23 operating companies
of which 18 are classified as subsidiaries (over 50% NDC shareholdings) and 5
as associates (less than 50%). In 1977 the total sales of the companies
totalled US$330 million and profits before taxes totalled US$29 million. The
consolidated operation of the companies has been profitable every year since
1968 though some companies experienced losses in 1975 and 1976. The 23
companies operate in the following fields: metal working (7); tobacco and
beverages (4); paper converting, printing and publishing (4); chemicals and
allied products (4); and leather tanning and processing (4). In total, the
Group companies employ about 12,000 people. Through its four subsidiaries in
the printing, publishing and packaging sector, NDC converts about 50% of the



- 10 -
present paper consumption in Tanzania, representing a sales value of over
US$13.0 million per year; the printing and converting industry has expanded
rapidly in recent years.
32.       NDC Head Office's administrative expenses increased to 81% of
its income in 1974, and became a cause of concern. After a review of the
respective roles of the Head Office and the operating companies, a decision
was made to restructure the services the Head Office provides in order to
ensure that the operating companies had enough independence of action and
could be held accountable for their performance. This resulted in a period of
retrenchment for the Head Office: administrative expenses were held constant
in absolute terms over the 1975-77 period and decreased to 32% of income in
1977. This reflected the much improved organization and coordination of Head
Office/operating company work. Since the reorganization, the only new activity
of the Head Office has been its involvement in the identification of technical
assistance to review operational problems in the individual companies and make
recommendations for improvements (paras. 12 and 26). This was partly respon-
sible for the improved profit record in 1976 and 1977.
33.       The Southern Paper Mills Company (the Company) has been established
as a wholly-owned subsidiary of NDC and is responsible for the implementation
and operation of the project. It is a limited liability company under Tan-
zania industrial and commercial laws and its initial authorized share capital
of TSh 10 million (US$1.2 million) will be increased to provide for additional
equity subscriptions as execution of the project proceeds. While NDC will be
involved in major policy decisions, the day-to-day operations of the mill will
be under the control of Company management. The total staff of the Company,
after the start of operations, will reach about 1,500 people.
Forest Resources and Industries
34.       About one-half of the total area of Tanzania, 44.4 million hectares
(ha), is classified as natural forest, the greater part of which is open wood-
land. There are 540 forest reserves totalling 13 million ha (or about 30% of
the forest area) which serve as a source of wood and wood products, and as
catchment areas. However, as most of these forests have a low stocking of
merchantable timber and are widely scattered, prospects for their economic
utilization and development are poor except to meet the large domestic demand
for fuelwood and provide small quantities of valuable hardwood.
35.       In addition to the natural forest, there are 42,000 ha of softwood
exotic plantations and 6,000 ha of hardwood plantations. The past planting
program has averaged 4,000 ha per year, and this is expected to increase
to 5,600 ha per year during the 1975-80 period. The plantations cover a
very small area of the country, but in the future are expected to supply most
of the timber required for forest industries. Located primarily along the
recently built Tanzania-Zambia highway, the plantations are now within rela-
tively easy reach of the country's important consumer centers and the main
port of Dar es Salaam.



- 11 -
36.       Total wood consumptiQn, estimated as 34 million m3 in 1973, is ex-
pected to rise to 37 million m  in 1980 and 48 million m   by the year 2000.
More than 95% of this total wood consumption comprises fuelwood. The demand
for industrial wood and wood-based material (mainly for sawnwood, paper
and paperboard), is currently 500,000 m ; it is expected to almost double by
1980 and to reach 3 million m  by the year 2000.
37.        Tanzania has not yet developed a sizeable forest industry.  In
addition to pit-sawing, which is still fairly widespread, there are over
150 small and ill-equipped sawmills producing about 160,000 m  per year.
Before 1976 the largest mill's annual output was approximately 5,00C m3
and only 25 mills produced more than 500 m  per year each.  At that time
a Norwegian-financed mill was completed by Tanzanian Wood Industry Cor-
poration at Sao Hill; this is now 3the country's most important mill,
currently producing some 12,000 m per year. In addition to sawmills, there
are 2 plywood mills, a particle board factory, a fiberboard mill and a few
small paper converting plant in operation. Finally, Kibo Paper Industries
Limited, an NDC subsidiary, began operations of a small 10 ton-per-day paper
plant (using waste paper) in June 1978; it is now producing near capacity.
All the other paper and paperboard requirements of the country must be
imported.
Bank Group Experience in Industry and Forestry
38.       The Bank Group has approved three lines of credit to the Tanzania
Investment Bank (TIB), two textile projects and an industrial estate project.
It has also approved one loan to the forestry sector.
39.       TIB's main role is to provide medium and long-term finance for
investments in productive sectors. The Bank Group has been involvedl with
TIB since its formation in 1970 and provided a US$6 million credit in 1974
(No. 460-TA) and US$15 million loans in 1975 and 1977 (Nos. 1172-TA and
1498-TA). Over this period, TIB has grown substantially in size and im-
proved its operations. The most recent appraisal report of TIB (No. 1730-TA)
described it as "a well organized institution with a reputation for making
sound investment decisions."
40.        Thus far, one Bank Group project has directly involved NDC sub-
sidiaries, the Morogoro Industrial Estate Project. Loans for this project
(Nos. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA) were approved in April 1977 and implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule. Two textile investments have
been made in subsidiaries of the National Textile Corporation. The first
loan of US$15 million (No. 1128-TA) financed the expansion of the Mwanza
Textile Corporation mill by 20 million square meters per annum. Physical
completion of this project was practically on schedule, and the project was
completed within cost estimates. Initial mill performance has been above
expectations. The second project, identified by the textile sector study



- 12 -
funded under the Mwanza Textile Project, involves the establishment of a new
integrated polyester textile mill with an annual capacity of 21.5 million
square meters of blended fabrics and 650 tons of yarn. A US$20 million credit
(No. 833-TA) and US$25 million loan (No. 1607-TA) were recentlv approved;
implementation of the project is just commencing.
41.       A US$7 million loan to the Sao Hill Forestry Project (No. 1307-TA)
was approved in July 1976. Over a 5-year period, it includes the planting of
about 16,000 ha of pulp wood, the maintenance of 10,000 ha of existing plant-
ation and the related infrastructure required. Although this project started
slowly with a number of difficulties, a managerial change has resulted in
evident progress in project implementation. All project activities are now
proceeding satisfactorily and initial technical problems (which resulted
in the failures of early project plantings) have been resolved. During the
present planting season the project management expects to restock most of the
failures of past years as well as plant new areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The Government of Tanzania has been preparing a pulp and paper
project for almost a decade. Approximately four years ago, Bank Group parti-
cipation was requested by NDC. After a brief review of the investment pro-
posals being considered by NDC, Bank staff highlighted the need for a detailed
feasibility study on the project. This study was executed during 1975 and
1976 and detailed comments were made by Bank staff at all stages, particularly
on project scope, technology, and market assumptions.  While ,his feasibility
work was being completed, an IBRD loan of US$7 million was approved to develop
the raw material base at Sao Hill for the proposed paper mill (paras. 17 and
41 above). In August 1976, a preappraisal mission visited Tanzania to discuss
the major project issues and reach agreement with the Government and NDC on
the actions required to proceed with this project. By October 1977 enough
progress had been made on the outstanding issues to justify project appraisal;
the Bank Group appraisal team was joined by representatives of KfW and SIDA.
The Kuwait Fund's appraisal took place in mid-1978. Negotiations were held
in Washington in November 1978 and the Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. E.
Mulokozi, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning. A Loan/
Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report and the Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is contained in Annex III. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
1929-TA) is being circulated separately.
Project Description
43.       The project consists of the establishment of an integrated pulp and
paper mill with an initial capacity of 60,000 tons per annum (TPA) of a com-
bination of various grades of paper and board, as well as 1,400 TPA of market
pulp for Kibo Paper Industries. Facilities to be provided include: logging
roads and equipment, a chemical pulp mill with a bleach plant, a mechanical
pulp mill, two paper machines with associated stock preparation and paper
finishing equipment, necessary steam and power generation equipment, and some
supporting infrastructure. The mill will produce about 22,000 TPA of kraft



- 13 -
paper, 23,000 TPA of printing and writing paper, 7,000 TPA of newsprint,
8,000 TPA of kraft linerboard and 1,400 TPA of market pulp. The principal
project facilities will incorporate spare capacity enabling a total of 75,000
TPA of paper and board to be produced at minimal additional cost. The mill
will be located near the Sao Hill forest area, 15 km south of Mufindi in
south-central Tanzania, some 590 km from its major market of Dar es Salaam.
The site has good road and rail connections with Dar es Salaam and with other
parts of the country.
Project Concept and Choice of Technology
44.       The project has been specifically designed to supply a substantial
proportion of the paper needs of Tanzania: the mill will produce a broad
range of domestically consumed paper products and is closely tied to the
projected Tanzanian demand for those products. Of necessity, this has meant
that diverse processes have been included. Moreover, the cost of chemicals,
most of which will need to be imported, and environmental considerations have
required that the mill be equipped with full chemical recovery and e[fluent
treatment facilities.
45.       Throughout the period of project preparation a number of modifica-
tions to the project concept (including reducing the size and/or the number
of products produced) have been suggested and evaluated with a view to reduc-
ing mill complexity as much as possible. Although some of these reductions
would have led to a lowering in plant capital cost, they also involved lost
revenues with little or no savings in infrastructure costs. Thus, these
options resulted in a loss of economies of scale and their projected economic
rates of return were well below the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Tanzania. Another alternative examined was a phased approach where certain
facilities would be added at a later date. However, as a very large propor-
tion of the total expenditures would be required in the first phase, the
adverse financial and economic implications of high initial expenditures for
delayed benefits were also unacceptable. The project concept now being pro-
posed therefore represents the optimum balance between project cost and
complexity on the one hand, and economic benefits on the other.
46.       Within the basic mill concept there were considerable choices with
respect to the degree to which labor can be substituted for capital and the
extent to which the mill is appropriate to Tanzanian conditions. This was
extensively discussed with the Government and NDC by the Bank and other
financiers throughout preparation and significant steps have been taken to
increase labor intensity and simplify mill operations and processes in a way
which would not prejudice product quality or environmental impact. This
concern received particular attention in the basic engineering stage 1/ when
a large number of decisions were made on types of equipment, the degree of
automation required and other technical factors of mill design. Reflecting
this attention, Bank staff and technical representatives of the other financ-
ing institutions are now fully satisfied that the mill design proposed is
appropriate to Tanzania.
1/   Basic engineering for this project was partially financed by a $500,000
advance from the Project Preparation Facility.



- 14 -
Market Analysis, Marketing and Pricing
47.       Current consumption of paper in Tanzania is approximately 23,000
tons per annum. Nearly all paper is imported and the total value of paper im-
ports is currently about US$15 million annually. While growth in consumption
averaged about 13% per year from 1965-71, the growth rate dropped to 3% from
1971-77. This slowing reflected primarily the economic crisis of 1974-76 and
the subsequent import restrictions. The use of paper is widely distributed
through all sectors of the economy, the major consumers including newspapers,
publishers of text books and the packaging industry. Packaging grades are
used for both domestic consumption goods (cement, sugar, milled products,
fertilizer, etc.) and exported products (particularly sisal).
48.       Because the mill concept is so closely linked with domestic con-
sumption (para 44), a number of market investigations have been undertaken:
two studies during the project feasibility study stage (1974 and 1976), a Bank
Group study including both end-use and statistical projections (1976) and two
independent studies by BIS Marketing Research Limited of the United Kingdom
(1977 and 1978). After reviewing the results of these studies, the BIS
end-use studies for the short term and the Bank's statistical projections over
the longer term were judged the most realistic and used for mill design and
project analysis. Using these estimates of total consumption, a further
investigation was made into paper demand by grades of paper in order to relate
mill output to domestic demand to the maximum extent possible.
49.       While the proposed mill is designed for the Tanzanian market,
economies of scale in pulp and paper production require a minimum size plant
which would be larger than can initially be absorbed by Tanzania. Therefore,
although the proposed mill would operate with an annual production of 60,000
TPA of paper and board by 1987, demand projections by grade indicate that
Tanzania's demand for Mufindi's output will not reach that level until 1990.
Thus, for a few years, the Company will have to export some of its output.
Although no detailed survey of possible export markets has been undertaken,
a number of the market studies contained examinations of likely export markets.
Given the projected consumption of neighboring countries and assuming that
all other paper projects presently under consideration in East Africa come
on stream as scheduled, the maximum level of excess Tanzanian capacity would
represent less than 10% of the total import demand of neighboring countries.
In view of this, little difficulty is anticipated in marketing the projected
level of export tonnages.
50.       At the present time, the 5 or 6 major consumers of paper in Tanzania
(who account for as much as 75% of paper consumed) import directly from the
producing countries, while most smaller consumers are supplied by Elimu Paper
Supplies, a Government agency. When the mill is in operation the major
consumers and Elimu Paper Supplies will receive their supplies directly from
the Company. Particular attention will be paid to ensuring a smooth transi-
tion from imported to domestically-produced paper; to provide the framework
for this, the Company will submit to the Bank by December 31, 1980 detailed



- 15 -
marketing and distribution programs for both the domestic and the export
markets (Section 3.05 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement). For export
sales, either the sales staff of the Company would be augmented or the Company
would sell to domestic paper dealers who in turn would handle exports to the
ultimate customers.
51.       Paper prices would be established by the Company.  It has been
agreed that the prices of paper products produced by the mill would be set
at levels which would permit the Company, operating efficiently, to obtain
revenues sufficient to cover all of its costs, service all of its debt and
earn a reasonable return on its invested capital (Section 3.17 of the draft
Joint Financing Agreement). Bank staff analysis indicates that prices so
determined would be approximately equal to the average long-term prices of
imported paper (excluding taxes and duties).
Raw Material Supplies and Infrastructure
52.       When the project relches normal operating capacity, the total wood
requirement will be 262,000 m annually. This wood will be supplied from
the Sao Hill pine plantations, sawmill waste, and a wattle plantation; a
pine plantation in Mbeya is available as a reserve resource. The Sao Hill
pine plantations, established primarily for this pulp and paper project,
currently cover some 10,000 ha; an additional 14,000 ha financed by the Bank
Group under the Sao Hill Forestry Project will be established during the
period 1979-81. Based on the growth rates which have actually been achieved,
and with a generous 30% allowance for losses, this resource should be adequate
to support the mill. However, as a margin of safety, an additional resource
exists in the form of a 4,000 ha pine plantation in Mbeya, some 240 km by rail
from the Mufindi site. Furthermore, the mill represents an obvious and
potentially profitable outlet for waste wood from the sawmill at Sao Hill
(para. 37) and for over-mature wattle from the Tanganyika Wattle Company some
170 km from the mill site; both organizations are interested in supplying
these materials to the pulp and paper mill. To the extent required for the
efficient operation of the mill, the Government has agreed that the Sao Hill
resource, the Mbeya plantation and the wastewood from the Sao Hill sawmill
will be available for the project (Section 3.15 of the draft Joint Financing
Agreement). In addition, the Company shall enter into suitable long-term
arrangements with the Tanganyika Wattle Company for the supply of wattle
timber (Section 3.10 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
53.       Because coal is not currently mined on a large scale in Tanzania,
assurances were obtained that adequate quantities of suitable coal will
be available for the efficient operation of the mill (Section 3.16 of and
Part B(4) of Schedule 1 to the draft Joint Financing Agreement); the needed
investment will be financed separately from the project. The State Mining
Corporation is planning to expand production and stockpile from an existing
small mine to ensure availability of coal for mill startup while larger
fields are being developed; however, if the full requirement of coal is not
available on time, the mill could use fuel from the refinery in Dar es Salaam.
Limestone for the project is available from several alternative locations
in the project areas and State Mining Corporation is currently sampling



- 16 -
and conducting chemical analyses to determine the most economic source for
full-scale exploitation. Salt for the mill's cholorine and caustic soda
plant is available on the coast and will be shipped by rail to the plant. All
other chemical raw materials will, at least initially, have to be imported
through Dar es Salaam.
54.       One problem which created significant problems for industrial
companies in Tanzania in the mid-1970s was the availability of imported
materials, and spare parts (para. 9). To address this potential problem, the
Government has agreed to take all appropriate measures, on the basis of a
reasonable allocation of its foreign exchange resources, to ensure the timely
procurement of the imported raw materials, maintenance materials and spare
parts needed for the efficient operation of the mill. (Section 3.18 of the
draft Joint Financing Agreement).
55.       The Tanzania-Zambia Railway (TAZARA) passes within 8 km of the
proposed mill site, requiring a railway spur. Following its usual practice,
TAZARA will engineer, construct and maintain the spur and will finance ap-
proximately one-third of the initial costs; the remaining costs are included
in the project cost estimates and will be financed under the project.   With
respect to housing, the project's capital cost estimate includes allowances
for 20 houses for senior staff and a 20-room guest house. In addition, it has
been estimated by NDC that an additional 540 houses and other township fa-
cilities will be required for mill operating staff as well as several villages
for forest workers. These will be financed separately by the Government and
are not included in the project cost estimates. An escarpment road will
provided the necessary link between Sao Hill and the proposed mill site; this
road will also facilitate transportation from the Iringa region to TAZARA. As
tentative agreement has been reached with the European Community to finance
this road construction, its costs are not included in the project cost
estimates. A transmission line into southwestern Tanzania is being estab-
lished as an extension of the national grid. While this extension would not
have taken place until the early 1990s without the mill load, it has been
concluded that implementation of the mill justifies its immediate construc-
tion. The Tanzania Electricity Supply Company is currently engaged in calling
tenders for detailed engineering of the line and investigating possible sources
of finance; finacing for this is not included in the project.
56.       The Government has confirmed that all the infrastructure and coal
mining investment required for the project would be completed in time to
meet the requirements of the mill (Section 3.12(b) of the draft Joint Financing
Agreement).  In addition, it has been agreed that quarterly reports describing
the implementation progress of the infrastructure investments would be sub-
mitted to the Bank Group (Section 3.13(b) of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Although, as reviewed above, a number of the infrastructural requirements of
the project are being financed separately and have not been included in
the financing plan, all costs not recovered by direct charges have been taken
into account in the economic evaluation of the project (para 73).



- 17 -
Project Implementation and Operation
57.       The mill will be constructed by NDC on behalf and for the account
of the Company (Section 3.01 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement). The
arrangements for project management have been a major focus of project pre-
paration, reflecting both the size of the project and the critical impor-
tance of its timely implementation. The arrangements agreed to between the
Government, NDC and the financiers include (i) the Project Team, (ii) the
Project Advisers, (iii) the Project Managers, and (iv) the Project Engineers.
A Project Team has already been established within NDC, and will eventually
comprise a staff of 7 to 10 Tanzanian professionals. A number of NDC depart-
ments will provide support to the Project Team and later to the Company. This
team will be led by a Tanzanian national, who is expected to become the
Company's General Manager, thereby ensuring continuity from project execution
to operations.
58.       In the early phases of project preparation NDC had the continuous
assistance of Aktiebolaget Statens Skogsindustrier (ASSI, the Swedish state
pulp and paper company) in analyzing various project alternatives, resolving
technical issues and for general advice on project development. However,
as ASSI does not have the experience in developing countries needed to oversee
project implementation, it was decided that other firms will be required
for project management and engineering and that ASSI would assume the role
of Project Adviser. In this role ASSI has already been involved in the
selection of the Project Managers and Engineers; during implementation it will
be responsible for assisting NDC in monitoring the work of the Project Managers
and Engineers, in providing whatever specific pulp and paper expertise is
needed by the Project Team and in helping in the design and execution of a
training program for the mill (paras. 63 and 64). ASSI's initial contract is
for a term of five years with provision for extension on terms to be agreed.
59.       The Project Manager will have management responsibility for the
project and will coordinate all aspects of project implementation. In late
1977 NDC selected Sandwell of Canada, a qualified international
pulp and paper consulting firm with extensive experience in the pulp and
paper industry in the developing world, to assume this role. Sandwell's
initial work on the project, under an interim contract, is being financed by
US$500,000 from the Technical Assistance Project (Credit No. 601-TA). Project
Engineers are needed to complete the basic engineering and detailed design of
the mill. In early 1978 Jaakko Poyry of Finland was selected for this role;
Poyry's initial work under an interim contract has been financed from a
US$500,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility (para 46). The
selections of ASSI, Sandwell and Poyry were acceptable to the Bank Group; a
condition of credit effectiveness will be the signing of final contracts with
the Project Advisers, Managers and Engineers (Section 4.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). It has also been agreed that throughout
project implementation, Project Advisers, Managers and Engineers with quali-
fications and experience acceptable to the Bank Group will be employed
and retained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group (Section
3.11 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).



- 18 -
60.       The management arrangements proposed for this project are viewed as
necessary to provide adequate back-up for the Project Team and to ensure
effective project implementation. They reflect the size and complexity of the
project and are similar to those which worked well in the case of Mwanza
Textile Project (para. 40). To date coordination among the various organiza-
tions involved has been excellent.
61.       Subsequent to the physical implementation of the mill, it is expected that
Sandwell will serve as the Company Managers for at least the first three years
of mill operations and will provide all services relevant to proper mill oper-
ation. The structure of the Company's organization during operations is
expected to be substantially similar to that during implementation in order to
ensure adequate continuity. The Company has agreed to submit to the Bank
Group by June 30, 1979 a plan for the Company's organization during imple-
mentation and operation (Section 3.07 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
62.       Plantation establishment and maintenance as well as replanting
after clear felling will be the responsibility of the Sao Hill Forestry
Project under the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. Tree
felling will be carried out by the Wood Supply Division of the Company; this
Division in the Company will be headed by a Tanzanian Wood Supply Manager. To
ensure close cooperation between the Company's Wood Supply Division and the
Sao Hill Forestry Project, the Ministry responsible for forestry will be
represented on the Company's Board of Directors (Section 3.09 of the draft
Joint Financing Agreement).
Employment and Training
63.       The mill will provide direct employment for about 800 people of
which 40 will be highly skilled, 160 skilled, and 140 semi-skilled. Pre-
liminary training plans for the technical staff have been prepared by ASSI;
they include acquisition of technical knowledge at the University of Dar
es Salaam and pulp and paper schools overseas and practical training at
Kibo Paper Industries and at South Asian and Swedish plants. The Company will
submit a detailed training program for mill operation to the Bank Group before
June 30, 1979 (Section 3.08 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
64.       The wood harvesting operations are expected to employ some 440
skilled and 110 unskilled workers when the paper mill is fully in operation.
In addition, the Company's Wood Supply Division will have approximately 140
salaried personnel of which about five managerial positions will be filled
initially by expatriates. The selection and training of the harvesting
labor force will need to be arranged well in advance of mill operations. It
is expected that the expatriate teachers required for the training can be
provided through bilateral or multilateral arrangements assisted by the
principal suppliers of the pulpwood harvesting equiment. The Company will
submit detailed training programs for the forestry operation to the Bank
Group no later than June 30, 1979 (Section 3.08 of the draft Joint Financing
Agreement).



- 19 -
Project Costs and Financing
65.        The total financing required for the project is estimated at US$251.7
million; the estimated foreign exchange component is US$193.6 million, 77% of
the total. In addition to an installed mill cost of US$217.7 million, the
total financing includes US$6.7 million for working capital and US$27.3 mil-
lion for interest during construction. These cost estimates were prepared by
Sandwell and Poyry during the completion of basic engineering in mid-1978
and the base cost estimate is based on August 1978 prices. Foreign equipment
will not be subject to import duties under exemptions drawn up to encourage
industrial development. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added on
all costs and price contingencies total about 15% of the base cost estimates
plus physical contingencies.
66.        The proposed Bank Group financing of US$60 million--a US$30 million
IBRD loan and a US$30 million IDA credit--would cover 24% of the total financ-
ing required for the project. The proposed IBRD loan would be repayable
over 20 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest rate of 7.35%. The
proposed IDA credit would be on standard IDA terms. US$20.1 millicon of
the IDA credit would be passed on from the Government to the Company through
NDC as equity and the remaining US$9.9 million in IDA funds and all IBRD funds
would be onlent from the Government to the Company under a subsidiary finan-
cing agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group; this
would include an interest rate of 10%, repayment in 16 years including 5 years
of grace and the foreign exchange risk borne by the Company (Section 3.04(a)
of the draft Joint Financing Agreement) 1/.  Execution of the subsidiary
financing agreement acceptable to the Bank Group will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 4.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). An additional US$191.7 million equivalent will be required
to implement this project. The Government is committed to providing US$51.7
million from local sources (representing 20% of the total financing required)
and cofinancing is being arranged from CDC for US$20 million (8% of the total),
from KfW for US$34 million (14% of the total), from KF for US$18 m:Lllion (7%
of the total), from OPECSF for US$10.5 million (4% of the total), and from
SIDA for US$45 million (18% of the total). Effectiveness of all cofinancing
arrangements is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan and Credit
(Section 4.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.        In order to ensure an acceptable financial structure for the
Company, it has been agreed that all funds required to complete the project
would be provided by the Government to the Company through NDC in a debt/
equity ratio of 50:50 (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Joint Financing Agree-
ment).
Procurement and Disbursements
68.        With the exception of items costing less than US$100,000 all
machinery, equipment, materials and minor civil works financed by the
1/   These terms are about average for onlending to parastatals in Tanzania.



- 20 -
Bank Group, CDC, KfW and SIDA (estimated to total over US$150 million) will be
procured on the basis of ICB consistent with Bank Guidelines. The recovery
boiler package, financed by NIB, will be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding within the Nordic countries. The major civil works contract will be
financed by KF and OPECSF and will be procured on the basis of ICB consistent
with KF guidelines. With regard to the equipment packages to be financed by
CDC, SIDA, KfW, the Bank and IDA, a 15% margin of preference or the actual
tariff on equivalent imported goods, whichever is the lower, will be accorded
for purposes of bid evaluation to qualified local manufacturers; qualified
local civil works contractors will be granted a preference of 7-1/2% for the
minor civil works to be financed by these agencies. Individual items costing
less than US$100,000 equivalent and totalling not more than US$5 million,
could be purchased internationally on the basis of their suitability, avail-
ability and price. As noted previously, the Project Advisers, Managers
and Engineers have already been identified.
69.       The NIB would administer the disbursements on the recovery boiler
package and the Kuwait Fund would administer disbursements on those components
financed by OPECSF and itself. KfW would disburse the bulk of its funds on
the paper mill package. Bank Group funds will be disbursed against 48% of the
foreign expenditures for relevant machinery, equipment and material packages,
48% of the foreign expenditures for consultancy services, and 48% of the
foreign expenditures for technical assistance and training; CDC and SIDA funds
will finance the remaining foreign expenditures for these components on a pari
passu basis. In addition, interest and other charges on the IBRD loan will be
financed from IBRD loan funds and disbursements under the Project Preparation
Facility (para. 46) will be refinanced from the IDA credit.
Financial, Accounting and Reporting Covenants
70.       In order to ensure a sound financial base for the mill, the Company
will not incur any debt if its debt/equity ratio would fall to 60:40 or below
and the Company will maintain a current ratio of at least 1.5:1 (Sections 5.03
and 5.04 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement). In addition, the Company
would not incur any debt in excess of US$3 million in any fiscal year unless a
reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its projected
net revenues for any fiscal year shall be at least 1.5 times its projected
debt service requirements in the same fiscal year (Section 5.05 of the draft
Joint Financing Agreement). Dividends shall be paid by the Company only after
three years of commercial operation and then only if the current ratio would
remain above the 1.5:1 limit (Section 5.06 of the draft Joint Financing
Agreement). Finally, (i) until project completion the'Company would not make
any investment outside the scope of the project and (ii) until operating at
full production the Company would not make any investment in fixed assets in
excess of US$3 million equivalent without prior approval of the Bank Group
(Section 4.04 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).



- 21 -
71.       Annual financial statements of NDC and the Company, audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group, would be submitted to the
Bank Group within four months after the end of each fiscal year (Sections
5.01 and 5.02 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement). Quarterly financial
statements and project progress reports will be submitted within 45 days after
each quarter (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Environmental Impact
72.       At the present time there are a few scattered settlements near
the project site; an ujamaa village is proposed nearby but its location
will not be selected until the mill's exact location is confirmed. Although
a full environmental impact study has not been carried out, the facilities
proposed have been designed with a view to minimizing the undesirable envir-
onmental aspects of a sulphate pulp and paper mill and no undue disturbance
to residents in the area is anticipated. As there are as yet no Tanzanian
standards for pollution control, provision has been made in the project to
keep the discharge of solid, liquid and gaseous wastes within internationally
acceptable limits. Agreement has been reached that the necessary antipollu-
tion measures will be taken to ensure that the project is carried out and the
mill operated in accordance with sound ecological and environmental practices
(Section 3.06 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Project Justification
73.       The project's financial rate of return has been estimated at 9%
before and 7% after taxes. To calculate an economic rate of return all costs
that would not be recovered through direct charges were added to project costs
(including half the cost of the escarpment road and all the basic township
infrastructure) and labor and foreign exchange costs were shadow priced. This
calculation resulted in an estimated economic rate of return of just over
11%.
74.       The decision to recommend Bank Group financing reflects a number of
concerns. First, the estimated economic rate of return exceeds the Bank Group
staff's estimate of the opportunity cost of capital in Tanzania. Second, the
project has been given high priority by the Government as a central element in
its Basic Industrial Strategy (para. 27 above); consistent with that strategy
it involves the utilization and processing of a domestic resource and has been
specifically designed to address domestic needs. The project also will
result in significant net foreign exchange savings, estimated at US$30 million
per year at full production.
75.       There are also a number of benefits of the project which are not
reflected in the rates of return. Certainly the most important is that the
mill would provide a dependable supply of paper to Tanzania at stable and
reasonable prices. As paper is a highly cyclical industry, Tanzania has been
subject in the past to extremely high prices and to the non-availability of
certain paper grades when supplies were short. In addition, the benefits of
the possible expansion of the project with minimal investment (para. 43)



- 22 -
are not included in the rate of return calculation. This expansion of the
mill to 75,000 TPA would have an economic rate of return above 30%,
including its costs and benefits would increase the economic rate of return
of the proposed project by over one percent.
Risks
76.       Given the very large size of the project and its modest economic
rate of return, the risks in proceeding are significant. The Government and
NDC have recognized this throughout project preparation and have made consid-
erable efforts to reduce the risks. This must continue to be a major focus
during project implementation and to ensure that the expected benefits are
realized, it is imperative that (i) the project be implemented efficiently
within the time and cost presently allowed for, and (ii) production be brought
up to capacity operations at least as quickly as forecast in this report.
77.       To minimize the risk of shortfalls in implementation and production,
three specific measures have been taken. Firstly, the project's basic engi-
neering has been substantially completed and a detailed construction budget
and implementation schedule have been prepared. This step was closely super-
vised to ensure that the equipment design would be appropriate to Tanzanian
conditions and that the capital cost estimate is realistic. Secondly, con-
sistently conservative assumptions have been utilized in regard to important
project variables; in particular the construction time allowed for the project
is some 12-18 months beyond what might be considered reasonable in an indust-
rialized country.  Thirdly, substantial expatriate assistance will be provided
during project implementation and initial plant operations.  While the
scope of assistance to be provided is expected to be adequate, its impact can
only be as effective as the close cooperation that needs to be developed
between the Company and the firms providing expatriate assistance: as noted
above, the initial relationship between NDC and its expatriate assistance has
been good. In view of these considerations, it has been concluded that the
project risks have been adequately addressed and that the project should
proceed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania and
the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, and the draft Joint Financing Agreement among
the United Republic of Tanzania, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Bank, the Associa-
tion, the Southern Paper Mills Company and the National Development Corpora-
tion are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Also being
distributed separately are the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
79.       The draft Joint Financing Agreement describes in detail the joint
financing procedures that apply to SIDA's contribution. A Memorandum of
Understanding will be signed among the United Republic of Tanzania and all
cofinanciers describing in a general fashion the cofinancing arrangements
agreed between them. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include execution of the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania and
Southern Paper Mills Company, the meeting of any condition of the effective-
ness of the various cofinancing agreements and the conclusion of suitable
final contracts with the Project Advisers, Managers and Engineers (Sections
4.01(a), (b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The loan
would become effective only upon fulfillment of the effectiveness condition
specified for the credit (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and the proposed Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
December 20, 1978



-24-                                               ANNE  I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  6
TANZANIA - WOIAL LIfICATON2S DATA SHEET
RiLrziuNci GROUPS (ADIJUSTED AVErAGES
LAND AREA (MO'JSAND St). KM.)                  TANZANIA                        - MOST IECTNT !STIATE ) Li
TOTAL            9'5.1SAE                                                               SM       NXTICE
AGRICULTURAL     303.3                                  iDaT ugCuWr      CzocuruzC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  LI    1970 Lb ESTIMIATE /4      REGION /4   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP-PFR CAPITA (05$)                   70.0 1f    110.0 14  200.0 if          223.6       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CtIS5PTKnIH PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAAC L  COAL. IQULVALENT)      41.0        62.0       69.0             86.7        38.9       251.7
POPULATION A." VITAL S7ATISTICS
TOTAL PQPU:ATION. MID-Eal
(MILLIONS)                          9.6 14      12.9 If   15.5 /4
URBANI POPULATION (PmERcE    or ToTAL,)  4.6       5.5       7.3             13.6        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. P34.                       10.0         14.0      16.0             18.4        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. 734. AGRICULTURAL LARD     20.0         26.0      30.0             53.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCE.'r)
0.-IA YES.                         '2.5 LLI   44.4 14   46.7               44.4        43.6         44.9
15-64 YES.             ~5.5 14,Aj   53.0 1h   50.9                          52.7        53.3         52.8
65 YES. AND ABOVE                    2.0 Lia      2.6 /h    2.4              2.8         2.9          3.0
POPULATION CROVYg RtATE (PEREN!1T)
TOTALL                              2.3          3.0 If   2.7 /f            2.6         2.4          2.7
URBAN                               5.0          5.6       7.5 /I           5.8         4.0          3.8
CRUDE 311Rr1 RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.5         50.5      47.0             46.9        44.3         42.2
CIRUDE DEATH RATE (PER -THOUSANID)   27.1         23.0      20.1             20.6        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RLAIE                           3.2       3.3              3.1         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANIOING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TEoOSANDS)        .             .        .
USERS (PIRCEU;T OF KARRIZD WVNMEI)   ....2.5                                           14.6         14.2
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              91.6        100.0     107.5             94.2        96.4        104.3
PUI CAPITA. SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RIWUI73ziTS)                     69.0        88.0       86.0             "0.1        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GEJARS PER DAY)          42.0         43.0      47.1             55.2        50.0        36.8
Of WHICH ANIMA&L AND PUlLSE      22.0 LI      23.0      20.0             17.1        13.9         17.5
CNEW  (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..                    .                 ..                     7.5
HEAL-T!
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARLS)    3S.7         41.8      44.5             43.7        45.8         53.3-
INFANT MORTALIT-Y RAT! (PER
ThOUSAND)                           190.0        160.0 1       .138.4                   102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PEIG73I oF
POPULATIONI)
MOTAL                                ..         13.0      39.0             22.4        26.4         31.1
URLBA                                ..          1.0      88.0             66.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..          9.0      36.0             10.4        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRErA DISPCSAL (PERCE3IT
OF PQPULATION)
TOTAL                                .            .       17.0             23.9        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..           .         .0             70.3        65.9         69.5
NUIRAL                               ...                  14.0             14.2         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          21750.0/jk 21570.0 ff0760.0 14          21757.5    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NUESUIG PERSONA    9240.0f--kl  4690.0 7? 3180.0 /f         3473.8      6583.3       2762.5
POPUL.ATION PER WSPL TAL BED
TOTAL                             570.0LELk   700.0 14f      .            645.4      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ...                   .             172.9       133.3        278.4
RURAL                                ...                     .1292.6                 1348.6       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER WOSPITAL 3ED                                                   MT..  1.   19.5         19.2
ROUSING
AVERAE SIZE Ot IIOVSEIOLD
TOTAL                                ..          4.4 14h     .              4.9         5.2
AVERAE NUXIER OP PERSCNS PER ROOM
URLBAN                              18g            .         ..                         1.8          2.3
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP M~ELLL%ZS)
TOTAL                                 .            .         ...                       25.9         28.3
U.RRAN                                .            .         .
RUAlJ.                                                                                               lo:;.  .  .  1.



-25-                                           ANNEX I
TAiLI 3A                                       Page  2  of  6
TpmZAIA - SOCIAL 1WD1CAEORS ODTA Sn?ZT
IZPERLNCE GRLOUPS (ADJUSTED ALKRAGES
A- MOsT ,CaNT ESTIMAt)R
SAME        SAMfE     NElXT HIGIER
IQDST BENer      CROGRAPUC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 h      1970 A  ESIfLT! /b        R1GION       GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RAnOS
PR IART:     TOTAL                 24.0         35.0      57.0             52.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                16.0        28.0       46.0             37.6       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          3.0       3.0              8.0        14.4         17.7
FEIALE                 1.0         2.0        2.0              5.0        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SEODNDARY) 23.0            ..        ..              7.2         6.6          7.4
IPUPIL-TEAChEP RATIO
tlD7RY                             45.0         47.0      53.0             4342        38.5         34.3
SEODNDARY                          20.0         19.0      20.0             22.8        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITsRACY RAT! (PERCENT)         9.5         28.1 A    49.0 /j           20.3       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TEORUSAD
POPULATION                          3.0          2.5       2.6              3.9         3.1          7.2
tADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIOIN                         2.0         11.0      16.0             40.1        31.1         71.1
SV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAD
POPULATION                           ..         0.3         ..              2.2         2.8         14.1
UEWSPAIPER (:AILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION    -              3.0          5.0       3.0              3.9         6.0         16.3
CIDNA ANNUAL ATTENDASCE PER.C&PITA  0.5             ..         ..              1.2        1.4          1.6
DaLOYKENT
TOTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4900.0 IQ   5600.O0LL6300.0 /n
FrEALE (PERCENT)                   37.1         36.6      36.3             312.6       24.2         2S.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              96.0 to      9t.Ot/.h  83.1             73.3        60.7         54.1
INTMSTKY (PERCEST)                  3.S         5.0         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               "4.7          43.5      42.2             42.0        39.8         37.8
MALE                                 56.9         55.7      54.3              54.8       53.3         50.3
SEoLE                                32.5         31.5      30.3              27.3       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPEHDENaC LRATIO              1.1 Lo       1.2L/,    1.2               1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRITU'TON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOIME
RECEIVED BY                                                                                              -
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS      ..         33.5        *-             25.7        20.3         19.5
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF MJUSEHOLDS    ..          63.3        ..             53.1        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF POUSEHOLDS      ..          2.3        ..              5.8         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          7.8        ..             14.5        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED AiSOLUTE POVERTY INCOS
LEVEL (US$ PER CWPITA)
URZA                                 ..           ..     117.0            108.8       8.5         155.9
tDRAL                                ..           ..      S89.0            74.1        71.9         97.9
tSTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UILBAN                               ..           ..     144.0            124.4       100.8        143.7
AL                                   ..           ..      45.0             59.6        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
DRBAN                                ..           ..      25.0              26.8       46.0         22.9
IURAL                                ..           ..      65.0             47.6        '8.0         36.7
. Not avilable
Not applicable.
/e    The adjusted group aversgae for each indicator are populston-wvelghted geometric mane  excluding the extrem
values of the indicator and the most populated country it each group.  Coverage of countries aeong the
Indicators depends on availability of 4ata end to not unitor.
2    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 reter to any year betveen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweent 1969
and 1971; and for M.st Recont esti=te. between 1973 and 1977.
/s    Africa South of Sahara;   td  Low lacom  (t280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower middle Income
(S261-SSO par capita. t976);  it  Mailand Tana; nt);    L  1957;   /h  t967;   /I  t967-71;   LI  1961-63;
A   1962;   LI ReStietered. not all prectice In the couetry;   /a  1958, Zansibar only;  /jt 1972;   Lo  1963.
September 1978



-26-                                                                      ANNEX I
pe e~ Of Vy*;.!prto                                                          Page  3  of  6
Notes   -ILL"- a,,  t,o 0avo are demon fr'n  q0m . garsfly  Judged the  oseas  eerhorlcatl,a end             Lote It  tel o- to .(     a note   tlict then *- not be Itetr-
SWIltalt tttr.l    nnaoon1 of  (tocv  -f araedordlnad d.fltn   tdot*t    et7yttrn    ooctaC  ,'Ilotttnn1.  eCce 44..  The dare are. OAe.tCe.Le.9
stil   todat.       .atr L       tant. Cd,ittt   ercs .  ed tctr*.Clt  SCertI                    - ol     di fe.Ce  nntcrIa
ee'-..   u'neoe   for nooN                  1 tiCaSar an. napnlottoe-esi4hed   -oti       "OO.  noe,l,d,  tr  ore   ulta  o  t1. todleator and chee  eat
LASP0E  't:-Aod ee   o                                                                    oaattnortn-o    ,     otl   itn  a,,d Cral 1   Pocalatloo  (toal1.
.o:a. - .t:c. *:cfco acts oooact."I lootarea  In bot   .eo..r.                      ...oo.. en    ua:'! :dto ly cecr tepaclsoctr  of : '.tto  bed
At:ltc -   tto   ctEeciaate     aIgricultral are  iced cr,oorarisatal tepoiltdpriate SoLI Laal aco npnvaltoa Lsy.al.cedra-
Ct?Elt cAP:l7k   7      :.PI ;nr capita. animate, at  .rseetc ecket prices.                Aa etosnnCS-tr I   tiftbapttco 1cc!l                             by a ndial o
ttltolatel  ayso   co    "rt; cretno  an 9orld La-a Atlas (1275-7? hbalsi;                altu.'rt   .01O    t.   tih Offe,r,ot-pacbtot cntstansad
1140,  9. lutI,                                                                             - o'ot.  rvd      (atotu.  ftdCl   otli
51127 CC0SC~~1C~N *t~ ;APttoA   Aetol_    ..eotia. Of chonetll   neg                   fro  doapto   --idel  y the  -o.or ofte-
theroial CaSctricot    -A .10 s34roo of c051 equejLeor ;er tapitia.                   Ot
iiorin attn of'osooi   vct1crhoood)-ttluta.c   us I                                  i "l-
pCrC.,ATfCt;    '.'I-A:: httt:tA hoeo:hold toCslete of a fvpo   tllus    to Scae1-o                                                                                      " rtiera
rota;&.    ll:t   :i-~:   o.                 A Of LiAly I: I  ant -aea8llol.                 an  thir cAin h   eaa. 0   sdar or ladler noy or no-Cn ha  ttluco  it
acarga  1 ta  a--norac:rctc; 1S0.  970  en  11  dn.                                      h.oc;.tld for otoILortcoal pa-possS.  Statstcal-  daflAtlnlas Oftooa
a! d,Ecoe:   curn.teo   os                                                                                  e    i.t  all.Sev. ad rural              C cOpLad  oVnlt
Per  no- .   -tl-aotp,alotlct Par e404-e kllateccr (1005 haccareaf                          . a cttplf porte.
Per!a.c   aar:clr             .o ...- Copcad aa above fecagriate-a lotConvnttto   oct111 it   tcutrtnlotrclatr y                             lri   orte   0frocg
onl -                                                                                     of total. urba, aid total d-ellIngs rnSPanrony,i
Potulatlonoz ety-t:ro?--en) - Children (0I-li rectas). -cno-
S--'  oai    c   .et...a  o.  yeanad  -ter  as peeraC...oga. of otd-         !WfCA!C$t
PSeolorlon uryt' tote  tee-ort) - total. actrc-bo  - C-o,,odn atnual         Prvr'  t-o     oa,ad(ce-ttlad  -so    rralloate  of a.l. agn
gt~t9  rotc,  c total coorIca  too-yea  pupcfloalao  for 1902-6,        an tOo peotory local C,pSCovitoeo if tesp-t tie...prinay atbool-og
L94Ofl  Aml 120-7.                                                                        popoilotl-a; tatnoly ...L.clule    triltc   e  b-11 Ynaro tot odj.ocnd  !br
Ceesse biect rat.  cot- ttsaoea,td) ~~~~~~~~~- Av 1 lIre crcha par tns....ad .d    diffa....  la.ten    fptoyeisco:frto.tiacitoieslao
00-yea    ou ::ttoyar            arilcato acverag.Acatnog  o16  oat                      coto   ..r.11hct ray caused 11t portc ...C 0l0C  0000 pecPaIa arc olaco
.90atjv-as    vrg   tn   to 1975 for -ber reea-..                  ct.shr  the offIcIalnools0
trots disc; rotc  t.e- tt.tuoo'tt) -cc:-cl detepe   oat   f  I--eocr,eto  - rotol - jc (0,1. - Connoted as abae; soconcdojy a..cot-
&vt popc.oIn   a-o   av.caloaocqe   tt6 La 1961 oat 1970                                 taoSqo          a   sa   otyeaoro of opproved 7e1-iaY icatr"nla;  to-
Cross recrolcotfot e- oo-toeraft  nanoet of doghtero a tncao acIl loo    ocually of .2 to U  yers otoa;.;.to-roeoondoea oaooca,   are aacarsil
it her tcanaSl cwOpectlra"  peroca of aye snpariaocaa ptott  g-                           ooo-wuod.
specifIc lactil            y lace  ooll  fe-year o-ate.. ao,1a4lago 1960,               Coonotl   trll-ef  te-et    ofanedre                  -  taotoal L-Ca CtrOtLam   0-
1970. aolL,975                                                                            alof   ncac) al.:0etla,   or  -ocr .. rsgoco  -1,th opertea  tnosptndaetly
t""v Lott   -  certro  aowl  tlocade) - cancel nuahor of                                    or 'aleartt...ts of  -Enodocylnt.toe
Ps-nep-Sor  01  iott-<.carchiytt        .ce   'uspirai of  falsa    asty                on-abar.tsto-tt.ore   avd  -eotoa-o1   - total ntccdtavta dmrollot  La
plsoo    ;royalariary  hAn  eCono..y lovelo dce                                                                                      y netoars of teachera  in ch. ortr.-
tabrrIeS'oota  ctl-uos:rEo   a.  1,51-   yorei alto use hirc.h-nooctrl                 MAuLt  lot        rae(aoe)-Literate adulco  (able to reasd sod caltei So
device  toalmna Co           e." is too beageAidtoop,                                     a peecencaga ofe total adult poPaltacia  aged 15 Fears tot o"ve.
Lodo- a . roeruoo  tee royitv  (fNt0olOO) -  ota  ooban of poe                           Pacerseaa(erhoottcotii - Ps...seqor tare teupriot ea                                tr
qtaentlt   Aee 1:  (sosa  rcEseiagl. Io oes1    ttlo.,ao i Cte-                 ~         .. o ..f. data torg enroo  ye b arsotnth  tofopera.tla  lo    mCodtsnanlc
qtaleeoatod thareotit.. e. Ct   A   os   ny-esala  needs fardtoe                        oolehad.r    Iie.ev...tsbdL,yas-e    oL                  1,    rdoSt
veighta. age ant oat4 diayOunan     d si pocolaian  .'. oat ollnda  1pr.-         afafict  daee tiarst r....    otiyea ;  etalhot   unlore la. tateer :aoc-
ten  fr-enot -e at to vasocltloAl.                                                        trlo ao     0 yorare   relotaton  17'  etowootoarfnt
of talmal sat yalot pratnoc. of anof 10  tao   aeol      samo   Pareo        Cne   cca   tetv     nttpt   n   ot-  toactC at the tod rceeo   iot
03grtoofa Ii                 f ftt   ss   rsaafrteeed  peapsagby                           ols.n    c  ot                        c                  S' f
erApucla matcnio 550    e-o aona :ad PoIe  - Poai  atapo  oefl             food          CiQ1C!`9        Iyg ..C1                                       s 2Ti
doisf-oaita aaof  ;c. eaO i-id    f  ot a ya  day,et                            total d    g   Cdanoe  foc  (te4-cooatds  - Ltonalol- tiekrtes           lda   tt
:nd(sn   -u :oln   at    e   biousanOtf..1  .... l    - oi oal tcospe by LeaA              to roasC a nI o -anneprimbt hot ocldagbon          e   etadoos, et....n.i..i-
ofactitag  tropA    -  yaso.  o dellta  Isrtlse  hogt4 gboopIi  T.                        tlono to tatloo-countrIhs areoatfcaroatahle
E~23AerirclnitLatsevo.nt  - Sbor.factoTtof.ontegtheorsrly. Pcoocsgeotbyfishin
:Ie.eoctt&I  o at tIdt (tnore -, aceaeoe    f  tc   flf                                    t  etnoeo   on Shrtre
rtncai5  t c aetoooull  _i.7 e.aoes   nlgfc16.17.                               Idar   oce-I     ao   ro   aoon.oetefio.oafcnigtc
a      ntye at.  ar.c  yeottaras, coelagnL Oiebt.                                         feage  abor  arts05 ;toleet.       n  01. rio Iv raboee  ti   aplte
Actee t  aasnent   orott  f oyrostiv) -totl.  eba. ad cral-           70*0  art ltO'e..COI.,    . od..c...rrityato    ot       f Cet artat ne-orn o  a
sta-  srtoasor   naIS'  Car;nnonooe    Io t eet h enuecte  WoalntsIista.l                                                                                 oal    a,S
cha  10  osarstee  a  uts0evbe  poadte.t  e btagnitia  oe-              ?oen,toec-e-cct  tran.bot  incos  an  kid)  sravodby  iaheg 
ocoatl  ocsa  f toc  onc.    t tnalarea rsaoatl  stne  otld                 nranr,roceu  :sporent   pered 10  iener  ot  poree ,0perec
nyycolTiot.nf    tmteso   n   oseod                        not-taco to                of  eh-eotdaotteldt.
aoro..Ct    t toropocc'L.,c. par  of.. t4 SaS atStataice  itsItolto
Ceyot   ACtTIPCP
905c  s*   oi  cutl,e-et  0tooiatte      otl  ulte  ce                        slrtosa. outioet    om   eti,tlte   att)-  .r.   ed-ov   
rued  -as eta  p:l   trot.g.t. outh Luro0Car.byettOcslnyanttecr.coiItotaae[oe Ot5nd    ocdt
Sipoa.  a   orotoa!      c    al    oeetiatooitOn.tortactetanty   ddot!Ju    Is  cnail  o-(A   rqirtoc   t  o
ith.. :0  ot'  oarl. ,,th S .- lsttvsb  tneld o -atasOlI. otto   lthtiu CSa....lfvr-favhLas1  hekad    ..I.   b    Ih
rceorsonc,  e- tirov nti rotaate esotoVnano STo. ..a....tarnC ayre           tonI p.eated craizag,yorJ    i.......       .'O p.cort cse4ta  -cr.o eceo0 torsO
P. - - Ccv.., oat-  Poy-abocCon Jtt~~~~~~~:od  iv noscor of prootuulse      p.r osrata onesotet  .tvves of trtscooIOote-Cof.hosnold.
Acotta tar, ota 
'i    '14 by                                                                 I.W.~~~~~~~IsteS  cd  oto  De  O.1cetSacon
......   1 t1.1r                                    .Cr;tt... Ltv                 p~~~~~~~~~~beieg. ....ticeL .-O' t Cd PtJetlStNC Dopersoc



-27-
AN~NEX I
Page 4 of 6
TA"c U.izDT W
__                     1965        30~~~~~~~~97
4.     inm2&L...h     476 Priso)
1. GOP                                            2384.2      246A.       2682.2       2737.0      2876.       306.         3183.1      4107.2       5329.         5.1         3.1         3.2        100.0
2.  24.Lm tr@. To. 06 Tr.d. (UT7)                   74.9       .68.7,        339:       109.0    20                .2         4.3        102.1       .  166.1       .
3.  Go.a Domstic itm                              2439.1      2376.1      Z361.4       2546.6      3899.       3013. 7      31.0.       403.         3183.8        4.8         3.3          S.C        96.9
4.  1,0310                                         911.1       755.2        682.0       743.7       a3.,          0.         53377       996.        1190.2        3.6         4.0          3.!        22.3
5   Casert  - V.1.                                 470.0       507.3       $37.7        533.6       374.4       394.7        620.3       793.3       1041.1        0.7         3.9          4.0        19.5
6     w.  ,    TI adjusted                         364.9       439.2        367.3       662.,3      597.5        096.3       578. 0      636.4        375.0       .0. 1       .4.4          3.7        16.1.
7   9...W. GOP - Tr .dj..14                        364.2       317.0        114.3        81.1       18L3.3      232.2        259.7       310.0        313.3         ...39
3.   310  13so1Le                              1331.0       2176.1       Mo6.1 I      333.4      2681.4      Z344.4       27.32.      3421.6      41294.1        5.7         4.3          4.7        910.
9. ~~~~~~~~~~~~                       5~~~~~07.3  519.0        336.4       564.4       901.0        654.3       677.3       993.3       1163.0        6.0         5 .6         5.7        3.2.
Lo. Sastama1 0.3889                                 193.3       260.6       356.9        526.3       492.8       314.9        303.9       664.8       944.0        .0.8        .1.6          5.7        17.6
El.  D.ometi  sawoags                               11. 1       303.0       333.3        463.2       41.5        4323        418.1        583.3       869.7       .0.7         -3.3         6.9         16.3
12.  ME a  C&Wzt U 53                              2264.3      1153.6      2736.3       3337.6      3943.9      432. 3       6870.1      8614.1     16043.0
(0 .43.o  711 1974-76  t.s
I.  Industry                                        17.2        13.         15.S         16.0        16.3        16.7         17.1        19.5        22.8         6.0         7.7          8.1
2.  Agetodt3                                        39.6        60.2        60.5         39.3        36.6        37.3         37.3        34.3        31.4         2.4         3.3          3.!
3. 0.0,0...                                         6.0         68.0        64.2         44.7        45.1        634.3        43.6        68:.2       46.3         5,6         3.8          5.1
FuPical (1974-36i - 1007
1.  08p9   n11  7 1"0.o.                            99.1        90.7       112.6        137.2       129.3       132.4        133.0       177.9       242.1                    .0.3         6.4
2.  Emmert P31.6 La".                               33.        154.9        104.7       114.6       124.3        134.3       164.8       204.3       288.0                     3.1         7.1
3 .rv*t  00 77. 13d..                              112.0        86.3       102. 3       119.7       104.0        98.6         93.3        37. 1       64.0
4.  GOP D.fl.o.(103)                                94.1       103.3        103.6       123.8       137.1        143.0       153.0       214.6        301.0                    7.3         7.0
5  A .o..S. lolag.9  amos (0  t. 7091.00)          7.143       7.41,4      0.379
1&2   1374-76     117- l          -9
1.   00                                            3.          4.3         4.1          4.1
2.  1M..t 023010.40                                  1.6        .3.4          1.1         0.7
3. Aaac.0 Dm1t6  0.0648 3 363                         5.          .7        166A4.
4.  A9*?3  36014361 Savi333 A368                    13.2        10.9         17.4        16.6
5.  Som    8104omwl   36.                            0.1         0.2        -0.1          0.2
6. r,0.e..GDP                                       33.3        31.7        Z6.8         24.1
7. D~w G                                            18.7        11.3        20.9         21.
S.  bacomme G39/0?                                   3.2        10.9         6.2          7.4
3.   1.7mmew (2 S""0)10.
2.1 AV0.3.410Z,3                                                      910
2,3 0..yi.a.                                                           7.0
(191.11426413.113)  . ~~~~~~~~1hMM              J9Z0fl    2ZI1Z72        1272/7l.   1J73/7       J314fl       1971179     1976M7
1.  OotzoSg  k'.s                    ~~~~        ~~~~~       ~~716  1683  185  2357   302         3966        3919         4762
1.1     3690=0W4                                   GU         1364.       1431         1927        no0         3161        3302        4163
2.  ouu.mt tm48,tv"    s                           707        1631        1761         222         26          3,01        3719        6600
2. om63.               I=68333a                    297         53          364          746         964        121          12.7
3.  Deacness 3.36,0                                  9          02          79          134         235          13         203          362
4.  933311. 030=.                                   .                        38          62         234          377         643        1649
3.* Iu  Mailaa ble0361  t30 ?Oin
0SY319pom  copen0?3                           ..                     117          196         432         362         S"6        2022
4.  fl.1..  Wt  oa6L0=                             236         36s         8"           956        1342        2225        2253         2709
7. 04.311 5430.11                                  ..         *a           767         .7620      Zu                       16 L03      -"I
S. 730= 96o  the  .049.1
bo.3361 103                                   93         270         347         4.5          467         661
Dt0     360.6,0
1~  200                                     .           54         M3          339          36          432
Short-tocs,                              3~~~~~~~13   164          38         377         720
1/    m31    33 cuoaOy 5. 1976



-28-                                            ANNEX I
TA82-14U                            Page   5  of  6
8MNG  01 PA?1  AtlEIDSX6L ASSISWtCZ
(WUIios US       AS)
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978        1979         1980        1985        1990
A.  SIMtU OF ULA=  01 2AIlt5
1  E          (i..L. WS)                                     465.9        460.7       605.5       759.7        742.7       787.8       837.3       1402.9      2520.9
2.  BwOO     (iman. IW)                                       779.0       793.5       727.9       852.8        970.5      1086.3          3.5      2036.1      3429.2
3.    37.n3.1                                                            -332.8      -122.4        93.0        Z27.8       298.5       -376.2       633.7      -908.3
4.  'GSa *ttor Sw "  L                                         .8.8       -10.3       -24.6       -21.1        -18.7       -21.0       -27.3        -75.3      -143.8
1.  Nt In-mac P2,int Of Piicb                            -13.6       -46.1        -18.8       -16.1       -13.7        -16.0       -22.3       -65.3       -133.8
I7tae"c o  Pmb7lc N & LT Leas                      ( .5)      (-11.1)      (-12.5)     (-15.1)     (417.6)      (-20.2)     (-27.7)                 (-161.9
2. O1get gI t    7_t                                             (           (                 (I          (           ( t                     't
3. - e        mtta     (Not)                              (4.8         (5.8       (-5.8        (-5.0       (-5.0       (-5.0       (-5.0       (-10.0      (-10.0
4. Oth 7er Yet    S       7_m aw    (MCt)((                                       (((((((
5.   8ne t f ags (Not)                                         30.1        71.0        77.9         94.9       110.4       129.4        147.9       235.6       362.5
6. Balc  sa Oas , Am t                                      -291.8       -272.1       -69.1       -19.2       -L36.1      -190.1      .255.7       .473.4      .689.6
7.  Private ODreat EmDCmg                                     24.5         27.5        12.3        20.0         20.0        24.0        28.0         35.0        35.0
Public t & LT Loaus
9.  DI_ts/                                                    143.1       229.9       116.8       215.8        187.2       271.6       315.5        528.2       818.7
9. AOr ti      m  T/                                         -14.9        -15.3       -           _26.5       -27.3        -28.2       -41.4        -51.0       101.5
10.   rt10+ .     1                                           -14.                                              27.3          43.4    2    t4.1    =47          =717.2
Otler I & LT Laso
11.  0sburX aits 2/                                           18.2         19.9        11.6          7.2         4.7         1.2         0.6          0.0         0.0
12. AnretLioz-3 T0                                                          -3.2        -6.2        -            -5          -3.2        -5           -5           0.0
13.  Neg 0aesbeiu  2/                                          15.2        16.7         5.4         0.1         -0.4        -4.0        -4.9         -5.3         0.0
14. Ue of  W9 8.e _ce /                                        46.3         28.6        24.3       -24.4         -9.0       -39.0       -20.3          0.0         0.0
15.  9srt-t    CeitaL frinaom                                  24.1          0.0       -11.9         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
16. Capital Tastions. a.e.1.                                  -31.4       -54.0        -31.2         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
17.  chme. in PA.etwe (- - Lammas")                            84.8         38.7       -24.2      -165.8       -34.4        -34.3       -21.2       -33.5        -56.8
6.  aR8s dllD LNS   C5J
1. OfficiaL   a*t                                            100.0        187.9       12.7
2.  intol Public N & LT Lao                                  260.4        152.3       183.0
2.1  1ERD                                                 65.0         30.0        37.0
2.2  MAe                                                  61.2         10.0        52.0
2.3  Other  catilaterl                                     7.1         11.0         5.0
2.4   Cowarmul                                           127.1         94.3        77.3
of wh1c csutT.ly pl_.d .mo.e   41                  76.5         5.4           -
2.5  0.apliee
2.6  Fa-I&J I7 itutSes                                      -            -         11.7
2.7  Bod _
2.8 Publc Lam. a....                                       -            - 
3. Other N 4 LT Las   (_  SMi7  b.7)j/                         5.6          2.9         6.0
C. MEMUIXI  71IM
1.  Ct es Element of  Dl C_Ste                                63.5         69.6        71.3
2. Avers4p  nterec (Permt)                                     2.2          3.5         3.3
3. Averag*   Mtwity (eatr)                                    32           42          36
1/  Inclides  fSinacing of pgu5eat.d baLa, af p =a   defcict (1977-1990) on 507.i si/S    im  taca.
2/  DOuement ad rapermt of Bc  low.. for AC project  of *tUb  7_aa   shre is a o                    oi M 0no    percent.
1/  Nat of '0rlag' _n 'Mbp  _mt by Purchams'.
4/  IcCludes CM  owmtataa  Pole's bpubii  ot            Sarth Kassa. S alisct _ipublSc af ve_.
/  hproeuat_ a miLI 40 perast of Iw  leas for "C pjseets.
UAN
CP!-A
January 5, 1978



-29-
ANNEX I
T     ANZAIA                                   Page  6  of  o
ODT AND CRDzIroRUUN2sS 1/
Actual
1974        1975         1976
A   MEDIM AND LO=C TMEI DOT  (DLsbutwUd Ocly)
1. Total Debt Outstlag (DOD: Rod of Pariod)1/                       697.7        923.7       1030,7
2.  Includig Badlsbmrs-d                                           1251 4       1395.6       1544.6
3. Public Doeb  Service                                              23.5         26.5        2=:a
1.  Interest                                                    8.6         11.2        12 3
4.  Other .    & LT Debt Service                                      8.1          8.2         12.4
B.  DMT BVRD   I/
1.  Debt Service  atlo                                                6.8          7.5          6,7
2.  Debt Service/GMP                                                   1.4         1.4         1i'
3.  Public Debt servica/Governiat Ravw e                               6.5         6.5          7.8
C.  TDMS
1.  Intrest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                    2.1.         1.9          1.8
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOM                                      4.9          4.0          3.9
D.  DCEPU CT RATIOS FoM M & LT DEBT V
1.  Gros  Disbura ta/srports (incl. NPS)                             20.7         31.5         17.6
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (iacl. N5S)                                 16.8         22.2         10.5
3.  Nec Transfar/Otco   Diabu us _ut                                 88.9         89.8         83.3
e.   0 5sy   j/
1.  1RD Disbursemnts/ross Total Dibor aets                           10.3         21.0         14.7
2. B3k Ckomp Disburaineta/_ oas Total D           lab _ramat         14.0         28.1         36.8
3.  BID DO/Total DOD                                                 12.9         15.3         15.3
4.  Bank  roup DOD/Total DOD                                         22.0         24.0         23.9
5.  IDR  Debt Servlce/Tuta  Debt Se5ce                               20.9         26.2         32.3
6.  Bak Croop Debt Service/Total Debt Service                        23.1         28.2         34.7
Outstandia Dec. 31. 1976
Ahnnct      Percant
(US m illion)
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                          90.1         9.9
2.  BDank  roup                                                                  106.9         11.9
3.  Other Neltilateral                                                            18.1          2.0
4.  Covermnts                                                                    655.8         71.8
of ubiub Centrally Pland  I.a_a #/                                         292.5        32.0
5.  suppliera                                                                     22.2          2.4
6.  Financial tnatitutlos                                                          8.2          0.9
7.  Bonds                                                                          3.4         0.4
8.  Public bebt  .e.i.                                                             7.1          0.8
9.  Total Public M 6 LT Debt                                                     913.8        100.0
10.  OtherM & LT Debt I/                                                          116.9        12.8
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. DedLsburr d)                                       1414.0        154.7
12.  Total K & LT Debt (incl. burAbtW d) I/                                      1544. 6       169.0
G. DEBT PROFfMi
1.  Total Debt Service 1976-80/Total DOD bd of 1976
I/  Includes a notional 40 percnt scar  of loam  to tte UAC.                                 ti
2/  Reprconts a   tionl 40 pernt share of debt srvice an la; to the 1eb.
3/  Includes  CA countriea, People'.         ItcpubL  of Chi   North K,  A, Socialist Republic of Vistomm.
FAN, CPI-A
Jan4ary-5, 1978



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
Undis-
No.         Year  Borrower            Purpose               Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/  bursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed               70.2           90.8
586-TA    1969  Tanzania  Roads                              7.0                   1.4
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                  10.8    1.9
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Education                                        10.3    3.7
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                        18.5    5.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                           17.5   11.9
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                          6.0    1.0
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                         21.0                   5.6
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                               8.5    3.1
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                             10.2    5.3
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                               10.0    6.9
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                              9.0                   2.4
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                           10.0    6.9
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                           15.0                   3.8
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank         15.0                   2.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                             6.0    4.9
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                          18.0   12.9
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Education                                       11.0    9.4
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                   30.0            22.2
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                           7.0                   5.6
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                        9.0    8.8
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                               8.0    2.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                15.0                  14.7
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex             11.5             8.5
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                      8.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                       7.2    6.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                       12.0   12.0
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                        15.0   14.8
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank        15.0                  24.8
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                27.5   27.5
802-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                14.0   14.0
803-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                   12.0   12.0
1607-TA 41 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                 25.0                  25.0
833-TA 4/ 1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                20.0   20.0
Total                                                   210.7  41.5   352.3  303.4
of which has been repaid                                  4.6     -      6.9
Total now outstanding                                   206.1  41.5   345.4
Amount sold                         0.1
of which has been repaid          0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                       206.1  41.5   345.4
Total undisbursed                                       136.2  30.7   136.6  303.4
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
T/  Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower        Purpose             Bank I/         Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours             35.0                1.2
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways             42.4               3.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours             26.5                1.1
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                5.6
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                8.3
Total                                          244.8              19.3
of which has been repaid                     46.2
Total now outstanding                          198.6
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      198.6
Total undisbursed                               19.3              19.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of October 31, 1978)
There are currently 30 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in
the control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since
1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than anti-
cipated. In line with the 1976 survey, additional planting has been carried
out and effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in
the Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields, husbandry
techniques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are
now being implemented.  Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favor-
able turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to improve.
The closing date may require a further postponement to allow sufficient time
for completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 16
the same organizational problems evident during the review and the setriousness
of the situation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, significant progress has been made since the review but major pro-
blems remain and require continued attention. The closing date of the Credit
may have to be postponed by 12 months in order to complete the ranch develop-
ment program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the crop
technical packages to give economic responses, the project must now be con-
sidered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather than
an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites. Recruitment of staff has been more vigorously
pursued since the Project Implementation Reviews began. The major project
problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the shortage of extension
staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the delay in producing accounts.
The project will continue to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery
has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its man-
agement capabilities are limited.  Therefore, while the Government's con-
sultants have effectively supervised construction and the project includes
provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the development
of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project implementation and disbursements remain well behinid
appraisal estimates. During the past six months, progress has been slow
due to,continued weak management at both the regional and district levels,
the loss of significant numbers of trained agricultural and cooperatives
staff as a result of their appointment as Village Managers, and the out-
break of cholera in two of the region's three districts. To allow for
a period of consolidation of project management, only four additional



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16
villages are to be included in the investment program for the next fiscal
year, bringing the total number of project villages to 61. A Joint-Mid-
term Evaluation of the project was conducted in late October 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production and the opera-
tions of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses (mainly
becaused Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions
vacated by expatriates). After heavy losses in 1977, mostly due to difficul-
ties in starting operations of the new factory, KSC is expected to break-
even. Phase III of the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed
by March 1979 The Sugar Development Corporation has requested Finance to
consider KSC's proposals as to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the
terms of the Government loans; a decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delay in imple-
mention. All formalities with regard to the establishment of the commercial
centers both for the coastal fisheries and Lake Tanganyika have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procurement
of engines and fishing gear. Of the four Ujamaa villages identified for
investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program two have been selected and
their investment plans have been prepared. It is expected that active fishing
operations in all cases should begin before the end of 1978.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective.  The project's exten-
sion services are seriously understaffed, and the deficiencies of extension
services and the Government's continued indecision on its reorganization are



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16
constraints effecting project implementation. Farmers' contributions to the
financing of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize
potential about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner,
but in the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A
recent decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has
doubled the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties
experienced result from limited cooperation between the central ministry
responsible for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of
local implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on
monoculture of maize. A joint RMEA/ Headquarters mission recently reviewed
the above difficulties and its recommendations have been largely endorsed by
the Government.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness --
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be success-
fully implemented and the milk processing expansion is almost completed. The
loan security/occupancy rights problems have been resolved for most farms. A
shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya
are imminent problems. The Ujamaa component proceeds slowly and the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank is actively investigation alternative means of assist-
ing village milk production and consumption. The foot and mouth disease
control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, project implementa-
tion has improved considerably and is now more or less on schedule. The
nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. Progress on fire protection, road construction and
buildings is satisfactory. All posts are now filled and management has
been reinforced. There are no serious procurement nor disbursement prob-
lems, although both are still slightly behind schedule.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed in April 1978, a
year behind schedule. The delay did not interfere with processing, as the



- 36 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16
crop was only 14.5 m kg against an estimated 20 m kg. Equipment for the new
line is arriving and the line will be operative by April 1979 when factory
capacity will be about 40 m kg against probable production of 20-26 m kg.
Efforts will therefore be made to step up production during the '978/79
season to ensure a good factory throughput in 1979. Building work at Morogoro
is proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional respon-
sibilities of these entities. The study of TAT's financial system will
commence as soon as the cholera quarantine is relaxed and TAT have been
requested to employ a Systems Accountant without further delay. TTPC's
accounts for 1976/77 have been audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Good progress has been made in project implementation, although
overall implementation is somewhat behind schedule, largely as a result of
delays in the delivery of vehicles and equipment. Key staff of the Project
Secretariat has been in post since early 1978, and the Secretariat is func-
tioning well. The agricultural component is, however, facing serious prob-
lems. The 1977/78 program of village trials (which are indended to validate
the Project's technical packages prior to dissemination to farmers) was
a failure as a result of lack of transport and poor coordination between
regional and district-level staff. The 1978/79 trials programs faces problems
as a result of a shortage of staff to assist in the conduct of these trials
following the appointment of over 50 percent of the region's trained agricul-
tural extension staff as Village Managers.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development
Project; US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness - October 2, 1978; Closing Date -
December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Closing Date - April 30, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 16
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
91%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1979. Total project cost is now
estimated at about TSh 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the
appraisal estimate of TSh 104 million. The Government do not foresee any
financial problem in the required additional funds. Three Community Educa-
tion Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village devel-
opment, education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational
Training Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical
assistance and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching
funds disbursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship com-
ponent of the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvements. Housing construction is in line with VMT training
which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment of over
500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are also dealys in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy expects for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: 1/ US$6.5
mill;on Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
Octo.er 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1978. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only US$1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983                             _
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
1/   The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1978.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 16
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on all
project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is nearing
completion. Education facilities for the Dar es Salaam sites have been ten-
dered; the rest of the community facilities in the project are to be tendered
soon. Progress on the lending program administered by the Tanzania Housing
Bank is slow but likely to pick up. Total project cost is estimated (at
current exchange rates) at US$15 million, compared to the appraisal estimate
of US$16.7 million.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing-Date - June 30, 1982
This credit became effective on April 3, 1978.  Progress on imple-
mentation is satisfactory for the residential components. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. The
Consultants' report on the Land Rent and Service Charge Study was approved
by the Government in January 1978 and a pilot test of the new system for cost
recovery proposed in the study is to be carried out in Morogoro.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 mi].lion
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in cornection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as a
year. Out of three senior advisors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and thet bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being finalized. Nine-month delay
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEM's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenya border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signifi-
cantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project re-
port for duty.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 16
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phas, II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. The main civil contractor has not yet completed its transport-
ation; therefore, principal civil construction works at Mtera is five months
behind schedule. Current estimated project cost is US$117 million compared
to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost overrun of 31%. The foreign
exchange gap in IBRD/SIDA-financed portion is about US$14.1 million. SIDA
has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its allocation to cover
its proportion of the cost overruns (about US$6 million). At present, Bank
has no plans to make any additional contruction to bridge the gap. By early
1979, the issue should be reviewed and arrangements made for the necessary
funds.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation of
funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under implemen-
tation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing date has
been postponed to December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable. There has
been a deterioration in the operating performance of the existing Mwanza
plant as well as some other textile mills. The National Textile Corporation



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page P2iof 16
(TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to
institute an immediate action program to improve the operating performance of
existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
With the arrival of a new project team leader from TATA in February
1978, the project is now expected to be implemented smoothly. Total commit-
ments as of May 31, 1978 was US$2.1 million of which US$1.7 million, US$0.3
million and US$0.1 million were for consultancy services, training and project
unit services, respectively. The procedures for processing proposals are
being streamlined and it is expected that the pace of commitments and dis-
bursements will be increased as a result.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of some
initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of procurement.
Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual components
of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still scheduled for
July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher than those
contained in the Appraisal Report.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3,
1978:  Closing Date - June 30, 1981
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 16
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of
the minor project elements, only two are still under construction, namely
the improvement of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds
in Mombasa. Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerabley. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning
completely independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania
Harbours Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected
to be established soon. Management of Ports in both countries is compe-
tent. Some US$33.8 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4 million of Loan 865-
EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds
at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since the
amount allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified
under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978 (referred to in a
report to the ixecutive Directors dated December 29, 1977-R77-312), were are
continuing disbursements.
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution of
the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system con-
struction have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing
and other problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters.
Funds disbursed to date total US$26.9 million and the balance has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and associated multi-
plex equipment. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The
Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 among the countries con-
cerned is given below:



- 44 -                      ANNEX II
Page 15 of 16
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to 50%
as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all its
staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some US$6.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
As of October 31, 1978
Fiscal Year            Obligor             Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing   3.96    0.70          4.66
1978             Highland Soap              Soap Manufacture  1.37    0.38       1.75
Total gross commitments                     5.33    1.08      6.41
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   3.96    0.70      4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC           1.37    0.38      1.75
Total Undisbursed                           1.37    0.38      1.75



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA: MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                  30 months
(b)  Preparation by:                         NDC and Consultants
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:           Early 1974
(d)  First Bank mission:                     April 1975
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:            October 1977
(f)  Negotiations:                           November 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          April 1979
II.   Special Bank Implementation Action
Project Advisers, Managers and Engineers acceptable to the Bank
Group have already been identified (para. 58 and 59) and the
basic engineering for the project is substantially complete
(para. 77).
III.   Special Conditions
(a) By December 31, 1980, detailed marketing and distribution
programs for both domestic and export markets would be
submitted to the Bank Group (para. 50).
(b) Prices of products produced by the mill would be sufficient
to permit the Company, operating efficiently, to cover all its
costs, service all its debt and earn a reasonable return on
invested capital (para. 51).
(c) To the extent necessary to ensure adequate raw materials for
the project, the Sao Hill reserves, Mbeya reserves and the
waste from the Sao Hill sawmill will be retained for use of
the project. In addition, a long-term contract will be signed
with the Tanganyika Wattle Company for the supply of wattle
timber (para. 52).
(d) Qualified and experienced Project Advisers, Managers and
Engineers will be employed and retained on terms and con-
ditions acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 59).
(e) By June 30, 1979, a detailed organization structure for the
Company during implementation and operations will be submitted
to the Bank (para. 61).
(f) By June 30, 1979 a training program for mill and forestry
operations will be submitted to the Bank (paras. 63 and 64).



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) The Company will maintain a minimum debt equity ratio of
60:40, and a current ratio of at least 1.5:1 and will not
incur any debt in excess of US$3 million in any fiscal
year if by so doing it could not maintain a debt service
coverage of 1.5 in any fiscal year. Dividends shall be
paid by the Company only after three years of mill operation
and only if the current ratio would remain above 1.5. The
Company will not make any investment outside the project until
project completion and until full operation would not make any
investment in excess of $3 million without Bank Group approval
(para. 70).
(h) Conditions of effectiveness include the execution of a
subsidiary financing agreement, the meeting of any
conditions of effectiveness of the financing agencies and
the conclusion of final contracts with the Project Advisers,
Managers and Engineers (para. 79).



