Document of               FIL  E         U-       '2i
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2455-CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR THE
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
January 24, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   =           Cypriot Pound (Ch)
1 CL                            =           1,000 Mils
1 CL                                        2.6 US Dollars (US$)
1 US$                           '           0.385 C6
1 US$                           =           385 Mils
CL Million                                  US$2.6 Million
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCB       -     The Cooperative Central Bank
DA         -    Department of Agriculture
MANR      -     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCM       -     Million Cubic Meters
PAC       -     Project Advisory Committee
PPCC      -     Project Policy Coordinating Committee
WDD       -     Water Development Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT FOR WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Cyprus.
Amount:         US$11 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:          Fifteen years, including three years grace, at 7 percent per
annum.
Project
Description:  (a)  The project is part of Cyprus' program to develop the
island's scarce water resources in an integrated manner
to promote more flexibility in water utilization and
reliablility of supplies. An additional 16.8 million M3
(MCM) of water would be provided annually, 9.6 MCM for
irrigation schemes in the Vasilikos and Pendaskinos areas
of southern Cyprus and 7.2 MCM for domestic use by the
Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot populations in the
Nicosia, Larnaca and Famagusta areas.
(b) Project components include: (i) two dams and a diversion
system to capture and integrate the flows of the Vasilikos,
Pendaskinos and Maroni rivers; (ii) distribution works and
other facilities to irrigate 1,160 ha, including a canal,
pipeline, storage reservoir and irrigation distribution
systems up to the farm gate, to convey surface water to
1,055 ha in the Vasilikos and Pendaskinos areas, and two
tubewells in a groundwater aquifer to develop groundwater
for 105 ha in the Vasilikos area; (iii) land consolida-
tion, including farm road development, for about 1,055 ha
in the project to be irrigated from surface water sources;
(iv) provision of bulk water supply outlets for 7.2 MCM
of water per year for domestic use, through existing water
transmission facilities for Larnaca and Famagusta and
those now being constructed for Nicosia; and (v) a small
agricultural research substation to carry out applied
research in the project area and an operation and main-
tenance headquarters building.
(c)  Project benefits include development of intensive fruit
and vegetable growing in a previously rainfed area, bene-
fitting a farming population of 1,650 persons; ninety
percent of these are estimated to be in the relative
poverty target group, whose farm incomes are expected to
increase six to eight fold. Other benefits include the
addition of 470 full-time farm jobs in the project area
and provision of scarce potable water to the Greek Cypriot
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
and Turkish Cypriot populations in the cities of Nicosia
(210,000, including 30,000 commuters), Larnaca (85,000,
including 35,000 in the surrounding area) and Famagusta
(15,000).
(d)  Two technical risks, fully studied during project prep-
aration, involve earthquake potential at the Kalavasos
damsite and seawater intrusion into the Gypsum aquifer.
These studies indicate that earthquake potential is low
and the dam design appropriate for prevailing seismic
conditions. Although the development of two tubewells
is not expected to result in seawater intrusion, water
extraction from the aquifer will have to be monitored on
a regular basis. There is also some risk of delays in
establishment of projected citrus plantations, should
farmers initially favor larger vegetable cropping to build
up early cash flows. However, in view of the high returns
from citrus over the long-term, any such delay is expected
to be only temporary.
Estimated Costs:                           Local      Foreign      Total
-------(Us$ million)-------
Kalavasos Dam                               3.8         4.5           8.3
Dhypotamos Dam                              2.8         3.2          6.0
Maroni Diversion                            0.6         0.6           1.2
Irrigation Schemes                          1.3         2.1          3.4
Land Consolidation                          0.2         0.2          0.4
Buildings, Research
Station and Equipment                     0.1         0.3          0.4
Administration and
Engineering                               1.1         1.1          2.2
Physical Contingencies                      1.2         1.8          3.0
Price Increases                             2.7         2.5          5.2
Total                         13.8        16.3         30.1
Financing Plan:                            Local      Foreign      Total
--------(US$ million)------
Bank                                         -         11.0         11.0
Other Potential External
Sources, or Government                     -          5.3          5.3
Government                                 13.8          -          13.8
Total                          13.8        16.3         30.1



Estimated
Disbursements:          IBRD FY      1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
------------(US$ million)--------------
Annual        0.7    2.6    3.2    3.7    0.6    0.2
Cumulative   0.7    3.3    6.5   10.2   10.8   11.0
Rate of Return:        15%.
Estimated Completion
Date:                 June 1985.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 2254-CY, dated January 10, 1979,
Regional Projects Department, EMENA.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR THE VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT FOR
WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Cyprus for the equivalent of US$11.0 million, to help
finance a portion of the foreign exchange costs of the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos
Project for Water Resources Development. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
Co-financing for part of the project is currently being sought from the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Cyprus (1151-CY) was circulated to the
Executive Directors in May 1976. Visits by the country economist in April
1977 and June 1978, to update the information and analysis, included discus-
sions with Turkish Cypriot officials and visits to the economically important
areas in the northern part of the island. Since sufficient reliable data are
still not available for the northern area, it has only been possible to
meaningfully review the economic situation and prospects for the southern
Government-controlled part of the island. Findings of the June 1978 visit are
reflected below.
General Background
3.        Cyprus' economy grew at 7 percent per annum between 1960 and 1973,
despite tension between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities.
The major factors contributing to this growth were: a competent public
administration, dynamic entrepreneurs, a high rate of investment especially
in the private sector, a rapid increase in agricultural exports contributing
to strong overall balance of payments, and flexible fiscal and monetary
policies, which helped to stimulate growth while maintaining domestic price
stability.
4.        The unprecedented drought of 1973 caused serious economic difficul-
ties, and the subsequent hostilities in July/August 1974 had a drastic impact
on the economy. Since then, Cyprus has de facto been divided into two parts
by a ceasefire line, with little movement of people or goods between them.
The southern part, under the Government's control, constitutes 64 percent of
the area of the island; the northern part, 36 percent of the land area, is
under Turkish Cypriot control. About one-third of the total population was
displaced, with over 150,000 Greek Cypriots moving south and approximately
45,000 Turkish Cypriots moving north. The displaced population has, in good
part, been resettled with humanitarian assistance provided largely through the
UN. In 1977, the Government-controlled area had an estimated 524,000 people,
while an estimated 145,000 live in the area under Turkish Cypriot control.
Pending an island-wide political solution based on the principle of a federa-
tion, and within that anticipated framework, the Turkish Federated State of



- 2 -
Cyprus was proclaimed in February 1975. UN-sponsored intercommunal talks
towards such a possible solution have been held intermittently, but have so
far not been productive.
5.        The de facto division of Cyprus into two communal zones has resulted
in significant structural changes for the island's economy. Immediately fol-
lowing the events of July/August, 1974, with the massive displacement of popu-
lation and severance of sectoral linkages, GNP per capita dropped by some 19
percent and the unemployment rate jumped to approximately 25 percent of the
labor force in the Government-controlled area. The northern part of the
island faced a similar loss in income and surge in unemployment. In addition,
the balance of payments position was affected, as both exports and imports of
the area under Government control fell by about 55 percent in the second half
of 1974. The drop in export earnings in the Government-controlled area
reflected the loss of over 47 percent of Cyprus' cultivated land area in the
north (including areas which produced over half the island's agricultural
exports). This area has only partially been exploited since 1974 by the
Turkish Cypriots.
Recent Developments
6.        The Government, through bold measures, succeeded in arresting, and
in 1976 reversing, the economic decline in the area it controls. Two Emer-
gency Economic Action Plans were adopted for 1975-76 and 1977-78. These
plans consolidated initial measures for economic recovery and focused on the
objective of reactivating industry and agriculture, and reducing unemploy-
ment. Investments in labor-intensive, export-oriented industries, as well
as increased utilization of existing capital, led to a rapid recovery of GDP
and employment in 1975 and 1976. In 1976, GDP at factor cost grew by about
17 percent. This growth was stimulated primarily by unique external oppor-
tunities, as resourceful Greek Cypriot entrepreneurs managed to export an
unusually large amount of agricultural goods to drought-affected countries in
Europe and also expand their market share in the Middle East because of the
disturbances in Lebanon, and continued to win contracts in the Middle East,
giving rise to export of unemployed labor and significant worker remittances.
The strong export-led recovery in 1976 resulted in a turn-around in the
balance of payments after three years of increasing deficits. Receipts from
merchandise exports soared 76 percent, mostly from agricultural produce for
the United Kingdom, and cement, clothing and footwear for the Middle East and
Eastern Europe. Receipts from tourism and worker's remittances also rose
considerably. Therefore, even though payments for merchandise imports rose
by 40 percent as a result of economic reactivation and export production, the
current account deficit was marginal in 1976. Despite these achievements,
however, investment, employment and GNP per capita in constant prices (of
1967) had still not regained their pre-1974 levels by the end of 1976.
7.        During 1977, these external factors had greatly diminished in scope,
except for the growth of workers remittances. Instead, the main impetus
behind expansion of production was the rapid growth of aggregate domestic
demand. It grew twice as rapidly as output in 1977, as the effects of the
Government's expansionary policies took hold. On the supply side, expansion



- 3 -
was made possible by the utilization of idle land, labor and machinery,
although by the end of 1977, full capacity utilization had been achieved in
many subsectors and together with export of labor for construction contracts,
the unemployment rate had declined to 3 percent from 16 percent in 1975. The
budget deficit declined by 15 percent in 1977 but remained high in relation
to the deficits prior to the events of 1974 as the Government continued its
efforts to stimulate recovery and meet the needs of refugees. Private con-
sumption in 1977 rose by 19 percent. Gross domestic investment increased
by 38 percent and fixed capital formation by 45 percent, with most of the
increase accounted for by private investment in manufacturing and construc-
tion. GDP at factor cost grew by an additional 12 percent in 1977. However,
the rate of growth in merchandise exports slowed down to 20 percent from the
unusually high rate of 73 percent in 1976, reflecting an abatement of the
unusual external factors which had spurred growth in 1976.
8.        With the more rapid growth of domestic demand relative to output,
the rate of inflation also increased, but remained modest. It was 7.6 percent
in 1977, more than double the rate of 1976. The inflation rate was restrained
by a substantial rise in the supply of imported goods. As a result, the cur-
rent account deficit grew from $10.4 million in 1976 to $95.6 million in 1977.
A portion of this deficit was covered by direct foreign investment, and the
remainder by $65 million in external public borrowing (including a $30 million
Eurocredit loan) and $6 million in short-term borrowing. At the end of 1977,
reserves stood at $332 million, equivalent to nearly six months' imports of
goods and non-factor services.
9.        In 1978, the GDP growth rate in southern Cyprus is expected to
decelerate, but should still be a relatively high 7 percent. The merchandise
trade deficit, however, is expected to increase further due to the more rapid
rate of import growth relative to exports. Despite an expected improvement in
tourism and workers remittances, the current account deficit is projected to
widen to $148 million, to be covered by a corresponding inflow of medium to
long term private and public capital (including a $40 million Eurocredit loan
signed in July 1978), and a slight draw-down of reserves to the equivalent of
five months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
Short and Medium-Term Outlook
10.        The pace and shape of future economic development will depend
largely on the political situation. The thrust of the proposed Third Emer-
gency Economic Action Plan (1979-81), now being finalized, seems sound in
terms of general objectives and strategy, given the assumption of a continua-
tion of the political status quo. The Government intends to systematically
exploit the limited natural resource base of that part of the island under its
control. It envisages a 6 to 7 percent per annum growth in GDP. The invest-
ment program will be on the order of $750 million for these three years, with
15 percent of the investment directed to agriculture, 25 to 30 percent to
manufacturing, a similar amount to construction and tourism, and the remainder
to other sectors. However, as the underutilized pool of labor available,
during the Second Plan, has diminished considerably, the investment program is
likely to become gradually more capital-intensive as growth will have to come



-4-
from increasing productivity. Therefore, during the Third Plan period, Cyprus
will need to: (i) accelerate the modernization of agriculture, extend irriga-
tion, expand the production of new exportable crops and provide a better
marketing and transport system; and (ii) broaden its manufacturing base and
gradually transform some of its export industries, to create larger, more
efficient and competitive enterprises, as well as modernize small-scale units
which currently dominate the industrial sector. It also needs to lessen
income disparities stemming from the events of 1974.
11.       Cyprus can count on several favorable factors to sustain economic
growth. These are: some unutilized water resources, although these are
difficult to harness; dynamic and resourceful entrepreneurs; skilled labor;
lower wage levels than in continental Europe; and favorable location in
relation to Middle Eastern markets.
12.       The average 6-7 percent GDP growth rate expected to be incorporated
in the Third Plan may be feasible. However, its achievement will be con-
tingent upon a rapid expansion of exports and an investment rate that would
require a substantial rise both in domestic savings and capital inflow. Over
the medium-term, a five to six percent per annum growth in output appears more
likely, given the good prospects for export expansion particularly to Middle-
Eastern countries, the gradual re-establishment of the tourist industry and
the substantial inflow of capital. In the longer-term, growth in export-
oriented manufacturing and agriculture, will depend on achieving efficiency,
competitive prices, and consistently high quality. To ensure this, it will
be necessary to selectively restructure industry over the medium-term, and
develop agriculture export capabilities on a systematic basis.
13.       Given the capital requirements to achieve these aims, and despite
good prospects for export growth, the overall balance of payments outlook over
the medium and longer-term will depend on the country's ability to further
increase its level of external borrowing, while maintaining a more ample level
of reserves than is currently normal elsewhere, which in Cyprus' special
political circumstances appears to be prudent.
14.       Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing external resources, given
the uncertainties of its political situation, has been rather encouraging. Of
particular note has been its success in undertaking Eurodollar borrowings:
the first in late 1977 for $30 million, followed in July 1978 by a $40 million
loan; both were syndicated by Chase Manhattan. The country is also beginning
to attract significant export and supplier credits. These forms of external
borrowing are perhaps indicative of the future, since access to long-term con-
cessionary bilateral and multilateral support is expected to continue to be
limited. Despite the gradual resumption of German (KfW), UK (ODM) and Council
of Europe assistance, three quarters of future public external borrowings to
cover the projected current account deficits will have to come from commercial
sources in the form of export or supplier credit and commercial bank loans.
Bank efforts to date have not only been directed towards encouraging Cyprus
to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to use Bank projects as
catalysts to attract other external support, including possible co-financing
with commercial banks. Thus, Cyprus has obtained cofinancing from the Kuwait



-5-
Fund for the Nicosia-Limassol Highway Project (Loan No. 1344-CY), and it is
considering similar financing for the proposed project; financial assistance
from the Council of Europe filled the external financing gap in the Pitsilia
Rural Development Project (Loan No. 1483-CY); export or supplier credit
financing in the procurement of selected equipment in the Second Ports Project
(Loan No. 1540-CY) may become available because of the Bank's financing of
that project. Despite these successes in mobilizing external resources,
Cyprus' access to external funds is expected to be much more limited than its
needs or that demanded by its considrable economic potential because of the
current political situation. As a result medium term growth after 1978 is
likely to remain at a moderate level, and below the rate of growth attained in
the 1960's and during the recent recovery period.
15.       Cyprus' external debt has remained low, because of the Government's
past policy of financing development from internal resources and its limited
borrowing ability in the present political context. Total long-term public
debt outstanding and disbursed was $162 million as of December 31, 1977.
Public debt service was only 3 percent of exports in 1977. Given the pos-
sibility of increasing reliance on relatively hard commercial financing and
despite an expected significant growth in exports, debt service is projected
to rise to about 12 percent of goods and non-factor services by the mid 1980s.
The Bank's share of debt outstanding and disbursed declined from 51 percent
in 1974 to 25 percent at the end of 1977. Its share in debt service declined
from 45 percent in 1974 to 35 percent in 1977. The Bank's financial support
has helped Cyprus overcome its relative inability to borrow abroad during the
1960s and early 1970s. The Bank's exposure, although still high, is reason-
able, and is expected to continue to decline steadily as Cyprus continues to
diversify its sources of external borrowings. Given Cyprus' low external debt
and debt service ratio, as well as the Government's record of excellent eco-
nomic management and policy of maintaining ample reserves, the country is
creditworthy for additional Bank borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
16.       Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of December 31, 1978, it
comprised fourteen loans totalling $104.5 million (net of cancellations), of
which $88.3 million was held by the Bank. These include four power loans
($31.6 million), two highway loans ($15.4 million), two loans to the Cyprus
Development Bank ($8.9 million), two sewerage loans ($4.6 million), an irri-
gation loan ($14.0 million); an integrated rural development loan ($10.0
million), and two loans for port development ($20.0 million). Details of Bank
loans to Cyprus are given in Annex II.
17.       The events of 1974 caused a temporary break in Bank operations
until June 1976, and resulted in delays in the execution of some projects.
In particular, the execution of the following projects was affected: ti)
the sewerage project in Famagusta, which lies entirely in the area con-
trolled by the Turkish Cypriots; and (ii) the construction of the Nicosia-
Morphou highway, the alignment of which coincides with the cease-fire line.



- 6 -
(This latter loan was amended at the request of the Government in November
1976, to make available the balance of uncommitted funds for construction
of the new Nicosia-Limassol highway financed by Loan No. 1344 approved by
the Executive Directors in December 1976.) The Nicosia Sewerage Project,
which straddles the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot areas of Nicosia, is
also not yet completed, mainly because of work needed to complete the treat-
ment plant located in the Turkish Cypriot part of Nicosia. However, as a
result of the initiative of the UNDP and the Bank, cooperation was elicited on
that issue from the Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, and a formal agree-
ment was reached in September 1978, on the basis of which this project,
should now be completed over the next 18-month period with the benefits to
people of both communities living in the capital city. This development,
which will need careful nurturing by both sides, offers some promise for
further cooperation by both communities with respect to other ongoing proj-
ects. The Bank, together with UNDP, will continue to make sustained efforts
to find ways of promoting such cooperation.
18.       The Bank's objectives in Cyprus are to finance projects to meet the
needs for higher productivity, employment and exports; to invest in essential
infrastructure which can be justified in the context of the whole island; to
cooperate in attracting long-term development capital from other sources; and
to accelerate the recovery of the Cypriot economy and standard of living to
the level prevailing before the events of 1974. When a political settlement
is reached, the Bank would seek: to help both communities through support of
projects developed to improve living standards of those groups left out of the
growing prosperity prior to 1974; to encourage development of a national water
policy; and to develop resources on which both communities are dependent. In
addition to the proposed project, a third development finance project through
the Cyprus Development Bank is being prepared for FY80. Other projects for
which preparation has advanced in different degrees, include further support
for power system development and projects to promote fruit and vegetable
exports and upgrade the island's road network.
19.       IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has most recently invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant and
is currently exploring opportunities for further investment on the island.
As of December 31, 1978, gross commitments totalled $3.6 million, of which
$2.4 million are still held by IFC. Details of IFC investments in Cyprus
are given in Annex II.
PART III - AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
Agriculture in the Economy
20.       Agriculture in Cyprus is primarily rainfed.  Its share in output in
the 1970's has varied between 13 and 17 percent. Livestock-related activities
and forestry are negligible. Prior to 1974, agriculture contributed about
60 percent of all commodity exports, and employed about 35 percent of the



- 7 -
island's labor force. The events of 1974 had a profound effect on the sector.
With the de facto division of the island 80 percent of the irrigated citrus
plantations, 65 percent of the dry-land cereal growing areas, 45 percent of
the olive and 30 percent of the carob trees are now under Turkish Cypriot
control, while the whole of the vine-growing area, and most of the potato-
growing and deciduous fruit areas are in the south under Government control.
The large scale displacements of population included thousands of farming
families of both communities.
21.       To meet this situation, the First Emergency Economic Action Plan
(1975-76) provided for expanded financial assistance on concessionary terms
to farmers to promote employment, absorb displaced persons and accelerate
efforts to increase production in the agriculture sector. Priority was given
to the completion of on-going agriculture development projects, including
utilization of marginal lands and completion of distribution networks for
irrigation from existing dams and boreholes. These efforts were continued
under the Second Emergency Economic Action Plan (1977-78), with additional
emphasis being placed on promoting more intensive cultivation and expanding
land under irrigation. A similar strategy is expected to be incorporated in
the Third Emergency Economic Action Plan (1979-81), which is being finalized.
22.       These Government policies have met with considerable success.
Despite the loss of productive agriculture resources in the north, and the
growing importance of industry in the economy of the south, agriculture has
continued to make a substantial contribution to the economy since 1974. It
produces 40-46 percent of total merchandise exports and employs 24 percent of
the labor force in south Cyprus. Nevertheless, while agriculture is expected
to continue to play a major role in the economy, its future growth is con-
strained by the very limited amount of water and availability of good quality
land. Growth will therefore largely depend on efforts to integrate and
develop these scarce water resources, expand irrigation, introduce more
intensive methods of cultivation, and carry out land consolidation.
23.       The pattern of land tenure in Cyprus is a product of tradition,
inheritance laws, and population density. About 60 percent is privately
owned, 39 percent state-owned, and the remaining 1 percent communally-owned.
Holdings are small, averaging about 5 ha., often jointly owned and highly
fragmented. To mitigate this problem, the Government established a Land
Consolidation Authority in 1972 to carry out land consolidation activities.
This program has been effective in reversing the trend towards extreme
fragmentation.
Water Resources
24.       Rainfall is low, occurring mostly between November and March.  The
total water supply of the island is estimated at 960 MCM (million M3) per
annum, of which 610 MCM runs off in the form of surface water and 350 MCM is
available from groundwater resources. At present, about 398 MCM is regulated,
with 358 MCM used for irrigation and 40 MCM for domestic supplies. Up to now,
water resource development has emphasized the exploitation of limited ground-
water resources. As a result, virtually all important aquifers are now being



-8-
overpumped, and many are suffering from sea water intrusion, such as in Morphou
in northern Cyprus. Since prospects for further development of minor aquifers
are limited, and there is little scope for artificial recharge, surface water
utilization and storage is becoming increasingly important for both irrigation
and potable uses. However, surface water development is difficult and expen-
sive, because of the steep topography, unfavorable geology and irregular river
flows requiring high storage capacities. Total existing surface water storage
capacity in Cyprus is about 65 MCM, to which the proposed project would add an
additional 32 MCM. Exploitable surface water flows lie on both sides of the
divided island, thus calling for integrated development to maximize the bene-
fit of this scarce resource for all inhabitants of the island.
25.       Against this background the Government, with UNDP and FAQ assis-
tance, has been carrying out detailed water resource studies since the early
1960's as part of a program to develop the overall surface water resources of
the island in a coordinated and integrated manner. The proposed project con-
stitutes a preliminary phase of a larger program being developed to collect
surplus water from all rivers in the wetter mountainous part of southwest
Cyprus and, after storage and regulation at suitable reservoir sites, to
convey it to the drier areas along the southern coast and in the center of
the island. Ultimately, this conveyor system would recharge a large aquifer
south of Famagusta, which is used for irrigation of 10,000 ha and is already
being over-exploited. This Southern Conveyor Scheme is expected to be carried
out in several phases over the next 10 to 20 years; when completed, and to-
gether with another water resource development proposal in the northern and
western parts of the island, it will add substantially to total water avail-
ability for the entire island.
Irrigation Development
26.       Given the relatively low rainfall, generally hot, dry summers, and
periodic droughts, irrigation is essential to obtain optimum yields for winter
crops and introduce perennial fruit and seasonal crops. Land available for
irrigation is limited however. Of the total land area of Cyprus of 925,000
ha, only about 424,000 ha can be cultivated, of which about 17 percent, or
74,000 ha, is suitable for irrigation. Since 1946, about 46,000 ha or 62
percent of this land has been brought under irrigation. The proposed project
would bring an additional 1,160 ha under irrigation. Bank support for irri-
gation development is already being provided under two ongoing projects in
the agriculture sector. The first such project, which initiated Bank lending
in the sector with a $14 million loan signed in January 1974, provides for
irrigation of about 5,000 ha in the Paphos area along the southwestern coast
(Loan No. 960-CY). A second project, for which a $10 million loan was signed
in August 1977, provides for irrigation of 1,150 ha as part of an integrated
rural development project to upgrade incomes and quality of life in the
depressed Pitsilia region (Loan No. 1483-CY).
27.       According to existing laws, all unused surface water and all ground-
water, except for wells registered before 1928, is the property of the State.
Utilization of water supplied by projects built by the Government does not
entitle the users to private water rights, but only 'use permits'. Such use



-9-
permits are also granted to private individuals for groundwater development,
but these rights cannot be sold or transferred and regulations are imposed on
extraction and utilization.
Domestic Water Supply Development
28.       Supplies from local groundwater sources have proven insufficient
to meet increasing demands for domestic water in major urban areas. As a
consequence, the Government is carrying out a program to augment these local
supplies.
29.       In the Larnaca and Famagusta areas, water availability was sub-
stantially increased during the 1970-75 period, with the provision of addi-
tional surface and groundwater supplies. These sources are considered
adequate to meet the estimated future demand for the areas as a whole, at
least through 1982 and possibly longer, depending on the extent to which
future population shifts may take place. In the meantime, since the Greek
Cypriot population, and tourists who used to go there, are presently excluded
from Famagusta, there is a current surplus of supply. The total population
of the Larnaca-Famagusta area is about 100,000, of which 50,000 are in the
Larnaca area, 15,000 in Famagusta, and 35,000 in refugee camps and villages.
30.       The capital city of Nicosia is divided into two zones, the Greek
Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot zones, having a total population of about 210,000,
including about 30,000 commuters. It presently has sufficient water to meet
only about 75 percent of the estimated demand of 12.0 MCM per annum. As a
result, strict water rationing is in effect. The Nicosia water system is
an interconnected one, serving both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
sides. About 50 percent of the water is supplied to the city by the Turkish
Cypriots from the Morphou aquifer in north Cyprus. The balance comes from
groundwater sources around the city, both in north and south Cyprus. As the
increased pumping from Morphou is resulting in added salinity, which will
affect agriculture, and other groundwater sources are also being overpumped,
the Government is currently carrying out plans to transfer surplus water from
the Larnaca-Famagusta system to meet the minimum needs of Nicosia's population
which increased after the events of 1974. This diversion of water would be
temporary, pending completion of the Bank project.
Institutional Framework
31.       The two institutions most directly concerned with agriculture and
water resources development are the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MANR) and the Cooperative Central Bank. The Ministry has six well
staffed functional departments and is fully competent to implement the pro-
posed project. The various departments are: (i) Agriculture, which includes
the Extension Service and the Soil Conservation Division; (ii) Water Develop-
ment (WDD) responsible for planning, designing and implementing water resource
development projects; (iii) Geological Survey; (iv) Meteorology; (v) the Land
Consolidation Authority; and (vi) the Agricultural Research Institute.



- 10 -
32.       Until the events of 1974, the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
Cooperative Banks had developed as the core of a network of credit societies
which existed in virtually every village in Cyprus. These local cooperatives
are able to satisfy the farmers' short and some of their medium term credit
needs, and currently lend at an interest rate of between 7 and 8 percent.
Medium and long-term credit needs are largely satisfied through Government or
Government guaranteed programs, with funds made available by the Loan Commis-
sioners (a Government committee operating through the Treasury) at an interest
rate of 4.5 percent.  This rate has remained constant, despite variations in
the annual rates of inflation estimated at 3.4, 7.6 and 8.3 percent respec-
tively for the years 1976, 1977 and 1978 (or an annual average of 6.4 per-
cent), and which are expected to gradually decline to 8, 7 and 6 percent
respectively for the years 1979, 1980, and 1981. The Government has retained
the 4.5 percent rate on the grounds that the long-term infrastructure improve-
ments (including land consolidation and soil conservation) provide benefits
beyond the immediate users which are difficult to quantify; and that there
are no alternative sources of credit for these purposes from the commercial
banking system. Farmers often supplement credit requirements from their own
resources. The appropriateness of these relatively low interest rates for
long-term credit is currently being reviewed under a Bank financed study
included in the Pitsilia Rural Development Project. This study is expected to
be completed in early 1979 and after subsequent review with the Bank, its
recommendations will be implemented nation-wide by July 1, 1980.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
33.       The project was proposed for Bank consideration in October 1977,
after WDD completed a feasibility study to augment and integrate water
resources in the Tremithinos-Vasilikos river basin, both for irrigation
purposes and to increase potable water supplies to Nicosia, Larnaca and
Famagusta. Bank missions visited Cyprus in December 1977 and April 1978 to
review the feasibility work. The project was appraised in June 1978. Nego-
tiations were held in December 1978. The Cypriot delegation was headed by
Dr. A. Papasolomontos, the Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources, and included representatives of WDD, and the Bureau of
Planning.
Project Objectives and Area
34.       The primary objective of the proposed project is to develop and
augment scarce water resources in south Cyprus, and integrate them to the
extent possible to enhance flexibility of utilization, conservation and
reliability of supplies, for both irrigation and potable water consumption
by people of all communities in Cyprus.



- 11 -
35.       This is the kind of project which enables a national resource, on
which both communities are interdependent, to be developed, and which, des-
pite the present political situation, can be undertaken by the Cyprus Govern-
ment for the benefit of both communities. It will annually add 9.6 million
m3 (MCM) of scarce water for irrigation to help promote intensive agricul-
tural development in the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos region and another 7.2 MCM for
domestic use by both communities in the Nicosia, Larnaca and Famagusta areas.
36.       The Vasilikos-Pendaskinos region, located in the southern part of
the island between Limassol and Larnaca, consists of the Pendaskinos river
watershed with a 167 sq km catchment area on the east, the Vasilikos river
watershed with a 146 sq km catchment area to the west, and the Maroni river
watershed with a 102 sq km catchment area in between. The project area to be
irrigated covers 1,160 ha net on the coastal plain between the Pendaskinos and
Vasilikos rivers. It includes 18 villages with a population of about 8,400,
of which 400 farm families (about 1,650 persons) are engaged in farming on a
full or part time basis. The remaining population is engaged principally in
industry, fishing, construction, and tourism. Most of this farming popula-
tion falls at, or below, the current relative poverty level (US$513 in 1977).
Although the primary crops today include cereals, carob, and olives, with
citrus, grapes, and vegetables limited to a few small scattered areas already
under irrigation, cropping patterns will consist primarily of higher value
export-oriented citrus, grapes, and vegetables when the project is completed.
The Project
37.       The project consists of:  (i) the construction of the Kalavasos
multipurpose dam on the Vasilikos River with an initial reservoir capacity
of 17 MCM, and the Dhypotamos multipurpose dam on the Pendaskinos River with
an initial reservoir capacity of 15 MCM; (ii) a diversion system to convey
excess flows of the Maroni River to the Dhypotamos reservoir; (iii) a 10 km
Vasilikos Main irrigation canal and Tokni night storage reservoir to deliver
water from Kalavasos to 830 ha of land in the Vasilikos area; (iv) a 19 km
Pendaskinos main pipeline to deliver water from the Dhypotamos dam to 225
ha of land in the Pendaskinos valley; (v) two tubewells to extract water
from the Gypsum Aquifer to irrigate about 105 ha of land in the Vasilikos
area; (vi) irrigation distribution systems up to the farmgate for project
lands; and (vii) provision of bulk water supply outlets from the intercon-
nected Kalavasos and Dhypotamos dams for supply of domestic water for use
in Nicosia, Larnaca and Famagusta. The project also includes purchase of
vehicles and equipment needed for project construction, operation, and
maintenance, as well as construction of a headquarters building and work-
shops near Khirokitia, together with a small research sub-station. Details
of the project are given in the attached Loan and Project Summary. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (No. 2254-CY), dated
January 10, 1979 is being distributed separately.
38.       As ownership of lands in the project area is severely fragmented,
the project also provides for application of the Government's on-going land
consolidation program to about 1,055 ha of project land. This program will
facilitate construction of optimum water distribution systems and provide



- 12 -
better access to farm plots, including provision of farm roads as required.
The project area includes a small amount of land owned by the Turkish Cypriot
villagers who left the area following the 1974 hostilities.  Such Turkish
Cypriot owned land will not be subject to consolidation, in accordance with
Government policy established prior to initiation of the land consolidation
program in 1972. However, assurances were obtained from Government that
persons owning agriculture land in the project area but who may have left
after July 1974, may resume farming of such lands whenever they may wish to
do so, and that any other person farming these lands in the meantime, will do
so only temporarily, with no transfer of ownership taking place, except by
succession from or agreement by the owners concerned. In the event any of
these absentee owners ultimately decide not to return, the Government will
make appropriate arrangements to safeguard their ownership rights or disposal
thereof within the context of a general settlement of such matters in Cyprus
(Supplemental Letter on Land Consolidation). These arrangements are similar
to those made in the amendment to the 1974 Paphos Irrigation Project (Loan
No. 960-CY) after the events of 1974, which was approved by the Executive
Directors in September 1975 (Presidential Memorandum No. SecM75-576, dated
August 4, 1975).
39.       On-farm development, including purchase and installation of on-farm
irrigation and production facilities, will be carried out separately from
the proposed project, either directly or on a contract basis by farmers. To
assist farmers in financing these necessary parallel investments, the agri-
cultural credit system is expected to on-lend the equivalent of about $3.9
million over a seven-year period. The Government will ensure that the
Cooperative Central Bank (CCB) and Department of Agriculture (DA) provide
the short and medium term credit required in a timely manner (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.10). On-farm works will be designed and their construction super-
vised by the Water Use Section of DA. The credit machinery has worked satis-
factorily in the past and is considered adequate to meet development needs
under the project.
40.       In parallel with the proposed project, the Government has also
confirmed that it intends to carry out certain complementary investments to
utilize bulk water to be provided by the proposed project and to augment
potable water supplies for consumers in the Nicosia, Larnaca and Famagusta
areas. These complementary water supply works will be constructed in two
phases: Phase I, already being carried out by the Government, to meet the
current critical water needs of Nicosia, consists of pipelines, storage
tanks and a pumping station to transfer currently excess treated water from
the existing Larnaca-Famagusta pipeline to greater Nicosia. Phase II, to be
constructed concurrently with the proposed project, by the Government with its
own resources, includes: (i) a new treatment plant at Kornos and a pumping
station, to supply water from either the Lefkara or Dhypotamos reservoirs
through the Phase I pipeline to Nicosia; and (ii) a pumping station, pipeline
and storage reservoir to convey water from the Kalavasos reservoir to the
Khirokitia treatment plant to augment supplies for the Larnaca and Famagusta
areas. Construction of the above water supply works are expected to be com-
pleted no later than December 31, 1982, unless otherwise agreed with the
Bank. This is essential so as to permanently augment the supply to Nicosia



- 13-
and the Larnaca-Famagusta areas, with bulk water that will be provided by
the project, and to end the temporary utilization of water from the Larnaca-
Famagusta system (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). The Government has provided
assurances that it will continue to supply domestic water to the Turkish
Cypriots in all these areas on an equitable basis, to the extent this is
technically possible, and bearing in mind the needs of the population as a
whole.
Project Costs and Financing
41.       The total project cost (including physical contingencies and price
increases, but excluding interest during construction) is estimated at $30.1
million. Of this, $16.3 million, or about 54 percent, is foreign exchange.
Cost estimates are based on recent contracts for similar work in Cyprus and
indexed to late 1978 price levels. All Government-developed projects are
free of taxes and duties. Price increases for local components are based on
expected cost increases of 9 percent per annum (1979), 8 percent (1980-81) and
7 percent (1982-84). Price increases for foreign components reflect rates of
6.5 percent (1979) and 6 percent (1980-84).
42.       The proposed Bank loan of $11 million will finance 67 percent of
the foreign exchange costs. The Government is seeking co-financing to cover
the remainder (US$5.3 million) and has requested the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development to consider providing it on a parallel-financing basis.
The request is being reviewed by the Fund and a decision in principle should
be forthcoming shortly. If the decision is favorable, certain discrete por-
tions of the project, which have a foreign exchange cost of about $5 million
(such as the Dhypotamos Dam and the Maroni Diversion), would be financed by
the Kuwait Fund if it so desired. However, should such financing not mate-
rialize, or should the Fund be unable to cover the entire foreign exchange
gap, and the Government's efforts to arrange other suitable co-financing also
do not materialize by the time the monies are needed, the Government has
confirmed that it will cover the remaining foreign exchange requirements
itself. In view of the critical and high priority nature of the project, the
Government is willing, and is able, to cover the foreign exchange gap.
However, there are reasonable expectations that the envisaged co-financing
will materialize to avoid a corresponding diversion of resources from some
other development projects in Cyprus. Besides this contingent contribution,
the Government will also contribute $13.8 million equivalent to cover all
local costs.
Project Implementation
43.       The proposed project will be principally implemented by WDD under
the direct supervision of a Project Manager, with the assistance of two depu-
ties. All three appointments are a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01). One deputy would be an engineer for technical
matters and civil works and the other an agricultural officer for agricul-
tural matters. Groundwater development will be carried out by WDD with the
assistance of the Geological Survey Department. Land consolidation will be
the responsibility of the Land Consolidation Authority, which will begin
land consolidation activities in the project area on or before May 31, 1979,



- 14 -
with at least two full field crews being assigned to the area (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.09). WDD will engage a consulting firm experienced in dam and
irrigation system development, to assist in preparation of design and tender
documents and in the supervision of construction. The consultants will be
employed by July 31, 1979, with qualifications and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). In
addition, WDD will appoint a Panel of Experts to evaluate the designs, con-
struction activities and maintenance program for the dams and to make periodic
inspections during and after construction (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.06 and
4.03(b)). A separate unit within WDD will be established on or before June
30, 1985 to maintain and operate the project works after their commissioning
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(a)). The Department of Health will monitor the
project area for any incidence of malaria and take all necessary remedial
measures (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
44.       Agriculture extension activities in the project area will be pro-
vided by DA through its Larnaca District office. To ensure sufficient per-
sonnel to effectively introduce new technology to project farmers, the twenty
extension staff currently serving the Larnaca district will be strengthened by
the addition of seven new personnel. At least one supervisory specialist
(Beat Officer) will be appointed by December 31, 1979 and the six remaining
new staff by December 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). Establishment
and operation of the research sub-station included in the project will be the
responsibility of the Agriculture Research Institute, whose staff would carry
out research in the project area in close cooperation with extension personnel
and project farmers.
45.       In view of the direct and indirect involvement of seyeral different
departments and ministries, the Government has also agreed to establish a high
level Project Policy and Coordination Committee (PPCC) to ensure timely proj-
ect execution and establish relevant policies for land acquisition, support-
ing services, cost recovery and other operational matters. The PPCC will
be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources, and will
include the Directors General of the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural
Resources, Commerce and Industry, and Interior; the Director General of the
Planning Bureau; the Commissioner of Cooperatives; and the Director of WDD,
who will also serve as secretary. To advise the Project Manager on local
affairs and developments affecting the project, a Project Advisory Committee
(PAC) will be established under the chairmanship of the District Officer in
Larnaca, and will include the District officers of WDD and DA, the Project
Manager, Land Consolidation Officer, Water Board Managers and two farmers'
representatives. The proposed implementation arrangements are similar to
those followed for the Paphos Irrigation Project (Loan No. 960-CY), which have
proven effective. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the PPCC
and PAC will be created by May 31, 1979, with the membership indicated above
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a) A, B).
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       Civil works contracts to be financed by the Bank will be awarded
after tendering under international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance



- 15 -
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The civil works components to be
financed by the Bank may be adjusted to suit the wishes of the co-financier,
but are expected to include construction of the Kalavasos dam, and Vasilikos
main canal and distribution system (costing about $15.3 million including
about $8.4 million in foreign exchange). Major equipment items and vehicles
for project use (costing about $310,000) will also be procured under ICB.
The project headquarters building and workshops, and research substation
building will be tendered under local competitive bidding, following proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank, since their small size and low cost (about
$180,000) would not be attractive to foreign bidders. Installation of the
main Pendaskinos pipeline, costing about $300,000, will be carried out by
force account because of its low cost and irregular alignment through pri-
vately owned lands. Installation of the two small ground water tubewells
and distribution system (estimated to cost $70,000 for civil works) and land
consolidation works (estimated to cost $450,000) will also be carried out by
force account. The pipes and fittings for the Pendaskinos system (estimated
cost $447,000), equipment for the two tubewells ($190,000), and other small
equipment items for project and operation and maintenance activities, (about
$100,000), will be procured through local shopping, in view of the relatively
small amounts involved, the variety of equipment required for which orders
could not be easily bulked, and the availability of sufficient local suppliers
to ensure price competitiveness. Specifications and bidding documents for
those items procured under ICB and for contracts under local competitive
bidding whose value exceeds $250,000, will be approved by the Bank before
tendering. Any components which may be financed by the Kuwait Fund would be
tendered under the procurement guidelines of the Fund. Civil works financed
by Government would be tendered under Government procedures.
47.       The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed over a six-year period,
against (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported vehicles and
equipment; (ii) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services; (iii)
85 percent of expenditures on supplies and equipment purchased locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (iv) 35 percent of
total expenditures on all civil works contracts, representing their estimated
foreign exchange costs.
Water Charges and Cost Recovery
48.       Users of the irrigation and bulk domestic water supplies will repay
the costs of the project through water charges on volumetrically measured sup-
plies. Costs of the irrigation component will be recovered from beneficiaries
in the project area through the Government's established system of charges
applicable to Government constructed waterworks. Under the Water Works Law of
1928, as amended most recently in 1977, the Government can recover from bene-
ficiaries throughout the country: (i) the full operation and maintenance
costs, and (ii) from 40 to 65 percent of the weighted average of unit costs
of all investments for dams and distribution systems constructed up to the
present in the country, through volumetrically measured water charges. At
present the overall recovery percentage country-wide averages 40 percent of
all costs, resulting in an average water charge of 11 mil/m3. With the addi-
tional water from the proposed project, the weighted average cost, as defined



- 16 -
above, increases to 47 mils/m3, of which 4 mils/m3 corresponds to operation
and maintenance costs. Once water from the project is available, water
charges will be collected from project farmers utilizing water from surface
sources in an amount sufficient to recover the full operation and maintenance
costs of the project and at least 50 percent of the weighted average of the
unit costs of all investments for major irrigation projects over a lifetime of
40 years, at an interest rate of at least 9 percent per annum, such charges to
be reviewed every five years. Application of this formula, which was agreed
during negotiations, will result in a charge of 25 mils/m3 to project benefi-
ciaries, which constitutes a 127 percent increase over the present average
charge, but which is still consistent with maintaining sufficient farmer
incentives (Loan Agreement, Section 3.11 (b)). Since groundwater development
is less expensive, charges for groundwater from the Gypsum aquifer will be set
so as to recover the full capital, operation and maintenance costs over the
project lifetime of 40 years at an interest rate of at least 9 percent per
annum. Such charges may also be adjusted downwards to compensate for the
lower quality of water supplied (Loan Agreement, Section 3.11 (a)). Annual
water charges at full development on a per hectare basis amount to $221 for
vines, $440 for citrus and $374 for vegetables. The total water charges to
be collected for irrigation water supplied under the project will result in
a recovery of 35 percent of the costs of the project attributable to the
irrigation component. However, since project water charges will be recal-
culated and increased as new and more costly irrigation projects are put into
operation, the 35 percent recovery ratio should increase over the lifetime of
the project.
49.       To ensure recovery of costs for the domestic water component, the
Government has agreed that the sale price for domestic water supplied by the
project will be set at a level sufficient to recover: (i) over a period of
40 years and at an interest rate of at least 9 percent per annum, the invest-
ment costs of all facilities attributed to the supply of water for domestic
use, including the facilities constructed as part of the proposed project, and
all complementary investments being undertaken separately by the Government,
(ii) the full operation and maintenance costs of all these facilities, and
(iii) a reasonable contribution to future annual investments required for
domestic water supply. The Government has also agreed to review the prices
for the sale of water periodically, but not less than once every five years,
and to reflect in the price any change in the operation and maintenance costs
(Loan Agreement Section 3.12). Revenues to be collected from (i) charges
paid by project farmers for irrigation water, and (ii) tariffs to be paid by
consumers of project supplied domestic water, based on the existing tariff
schedule, will be sufficient to recover all costs of project facilities
for supply of water for irrigation and domestic uses, as well as the comple-
mentary investments for distribution and treatment of domestic water.
Benefits
50.       The introduction of irrigation in the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos region
and the provision of proper agricultural inputs and investments, will bring
modern agriculture to 1,160 ha which have so far been subject to rainfed
conditions. The value of irrigated crops produced in the project would be



- 17 -
about $6.6 million in mid-1978 prices, compared with an annual value of $0.4
million for rainfed crops. In view of the strong domestic and foreign demand,
and the country's considerable experience in exporting to Europe, the U.K. and
the Middle East, no difficulty is expected in marketing the incremental pro-
duction.
51.       Other increases in the productive infrastructure include improve-
ments in soil conditions through soil conservation work, reduction of land
fragmentation through land consolidation, improvement of farmers' access to
markets and inputs through farm roads to each individual farm, and vastly
improved volume and security of water supplies for both agriculture and urban
areas. By providing economic incentives to farmers in the region, the project
will induce young people and part-time farmers to look on farming in the area
as an attractive alternative to off-farm work in the cities. The project will
also provide an additional 7.2 MCM annually of needed potable water to the
Nicosia and Larnaca-Famagusta areas.
52.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 15 percent.  Sensitivity
analysis indicates that a rate of return of more than 10 percent would be
obtained even if the project is delayed two years, or if all investments and
operating costs increase by 20 percent.
53.       Direct beneficiaries of the project's irrigation component will be
some 400 farm families (about 1,650 persons) whose farm income will increase
six to eight fold and be more evenly distributed throughout the year. Further
benefits will accrue directly to some 470 additional outside farm workers who
will be required, thus raising the number of direct beneficiaries, including
families of such workers, to about 3,570 persons. The main indirect bene-
ficiaries would include suppliers of goods and services to the project area.
The main beneficiaries of the additional water supplies for domestic urban use
would be the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot populations of the Nicosia and
Larnaca-Famagusta areas, particularly in Nicosia, where water is currently
strictly rationed.
Risks
54.       Two possible project risks involving earthquake potential at the
Kalavasos damsite and seawater intrusion into the Gypsum aquifer, were fully
studied during project preparation. These investigations indicate that the
earthquake potential is low and the dam design suitable for the prevailing
seismic conditions, provided normal construction methods are followed. Geo-
logical and hydrological investigations also indicate that additional pumping
of groundwater from the gysum aquifer, and diversion of the Maroni river which
is its major source of recharge, should not result in seawater intrusion. In
the event that some intrusion does occur, the amount of groundwater extraction
would need to be reduced. To avoid over-extraction, the Government will
monitor water extraction from this aquifer on a regular basis (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05). In view of the initial negative cash flows during the early
years of citrus plantation establishment, farmers could conceivably delay some
of the projected citrus establishment in favor of larger vegetable cropping
to build up early cash flows. However, given the high returns from citrus



- 18 -
over the long-term, and better utilization of family labor, any such delay is
expected to be only temporary.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are given in Section
III of Annex III.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
'PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 24, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
CYPRUS                                                    ft
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL               9.3                                                     SAME        SANE      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        5.3                                  MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE tb         REGION /C   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   430.0       960.0    1740.0            1898.8      1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      829.0       1380.0    1278.0            1869.3     1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          0.6          0.63      0.67
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0          39.1       48.1             43.0        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        62.0         68.0       72.0            80.4        27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    109.0         119.0      126.0            135.2      116.4         83.6
POPULATION AGE ST-RUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          36.7         31.8       28.8             26.2       34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                          57.4         60.6      61.7             63.4        56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    5.9          7.6        9.5              9.9        5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.5 /f      1.1 /f    0.4 /f            0.8         1.6         2.9
URBAN                                4.2         1.9        2.4              2.2        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.6        24.2       22.2             19.2       27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        7.5         7.4        6.8              9.0         9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.7         1.5        1.4              1.3         1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..             38.0        19.3*
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              55.6        100.0       83.2            113.7      103.8        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    99.0        116.0      113.0            127.4      110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           78,0         78.0       86.0 /g          92.8       77.7         89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ,,        33.01/       ..             39.3       22.2         48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        1.7          ..         ..              1.6         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)'  68.1           70.2       71.4             68.9       63.0         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             30.0        29.4       28.4             34.5        38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         95.0       95.0             68.3       67.7         83.0
URBAN                                 ..       100.0       94.0             74.3       83.5        100.0
RURAL                                ..         92.0       96.0             64.4       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCpT
OF POPULATION)                   l
TOTAL                                           95.0       95.0             94.0       70.3         57.8
URBAN                                          100.0       94.0             94.0       90.7         99.3
RURAL                                ..         92.0       95.0             93.0       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1390.0 Li   1290.0    1160.0             686.5     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1080.0 L     610.0      430.0            339.0      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             220.0 L      i9o.o      200.0            178.0      275.4        325.8
RURBANL.                                          ..                        70.0      129.9        250.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..           1770.0      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..             15.3        18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.0          ..        3.9                         3.9
URBAN                                4.0          .          ..
RURAL                                3.9          ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.5                    0.9              0.9        0.9
URBAN                                1.3         1.0        0.8              0.8        0.8
RURAL                                1.6          ..        1.0              1.0        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              43.1           ..         ..             57.5       59.2
URBAN                             .90.4           *-       99.0             99.0       78.0
RURAL                               21.5          ..         ..               ..       12.5



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
Pale 2
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
CYPRUS                       - MOST RECENT ESTIXATE)
SAME       SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MUST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb     REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL               102.0        82.0 a    71.0 Li         108.0      97.6        104.1
FEMALE              101.0       82.0 a    72.0 ai         99.5        87.4       120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                48.0        52.0      60.0 J          62.8       47.8        44.7
FEtlALE             39.0        50.0      59.0   i        63.6       42.6        46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  4.0       10.0 /i   12.0 /I         28.2       22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          34.0        30.01    27.0 /1          24.9       25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                        23.0        21.0 1   20.0 a          17.3       24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       76.0       85.0        ..            88.3       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       48.0        88.0     107.0            90.4       32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                      153.0       264.0    321.0            199.0      201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0        78.0     133.0           132.5       97.9        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION               126.0        107.0    121.0            97.1       70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0       10.0        ..             6.6        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     235.0       265.0    280.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 33.6        34.3      34.6            32.4        17.4       26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            40.0         36.0     34.0             32.8       38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               27.1        27.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.5        41.9      42.9            39.1        33.7        40.1
MALE                               56.2         55.8      56.8            56.7       50.8        55.8
FEMALE                             27.2        28.3      29.4            29.7       12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0         0.9       0.9             0.9         1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    ..        12.1 /       ..            31.9      20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..        39.1 /k    ..              59.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        7.9 /       ..            4.0         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        19.6 k      ..            12.9       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..    376.7             194.9      157.9.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    746.7            295.1       448.8
RUJRAL                             ..          ..    512.7<            309.2      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       37.0            18.2       23.2
RURAL                              ..          ..       43.0            24.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c   Europe;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976); /e  High Income  (over $2500 per capita, 1976);
If Due to emigration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  La  Av. 1969-71;
/h  Av. 1964-66; /i  1962; Li Excluding Turkish schools;  /k  1966, urban only.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Page 3 of 7
KWA:,i The,adju:sed,group average  fo:r eahidctor are population-weightad geometric means, excluding the extreme values of thr Indictot- and tho ri-t
po pul1td coutry in  ach grop   Cvrag  of tountriss among the indicators depends on availabillty of data end is not unifura.  Duve to 1a-k of data,
group averags  for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicator. of actess to water and excrete disposal. housing. income distribution and p-orty  -r
simple popul.tio-e-wighted geomestric means without the excluaion of e"treae values..
LAND ARE.A (thousand eq. km)                                                             Population per hospital had - total_.urban. and rura   - Populetioc(otl
Total - Total surface area comprisins land area and inland  aeters.                        uchan. and rural) divided by their respectiv- number of hospital b.da
Agricultural - Most racent estimate of agricultural area ased temporarily                  available in public and Private general end epecieli.ed hospital und or-
or permanently for crop., pastures, market and kitchen gerdene or to                    habilitation centere.  Hospitale are *mtabli.hments permanently staffed by
Ii. fallen,                                                                             at l1ast One physician.  Establishment. providing principally cuatodi.1
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medl-
CMIP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices.                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (hut by a medical as-
calculated by sems conversion method an World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant. nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomo-dation and
1960. 1970. and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admisson  mar  Ao"ital bed - Total member of admissions to or discharges
ENERG'f CONISUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of coemercial energy                   fro  hospitals dvided by the number of bade.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and bydro- , nuclear anA geo-
thermal electricity) In kilograma of coal equivalent par capita.                    ROVsiN
Avarage  ieis of household (paerons por household) - total, urban, and rural -
POPUL.ATION AltO VITAL. STATISTICS                                                          A household coneiste of a group of individuals who shore living quart.r.
rTotal  _opuation, mid-year, (millionsl - As of July 1; if not available,                          and their main meale.  A boarder or loger may or may nor be included in
avrg     a w   nd -year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                    the housebold for statistical purposes.  Statistical deflnitionn  of house-
Urban population (peccent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tine; different definitions of urban areas may effect comparability                   Averagte number of paerons per room, - total, urban. end rural - Average u.
of dateaemong countries,                                                                her of person. per room in all. urban, and rural occupied cooventionel
Population density                                                                        dwellings. raepectively.  Dwellings sexclude non-p rmasnent structures end
*Par  en. km. - Midi-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                          unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total. urban, and rural -
Per mg. hm. agriculture lend - Computed as above for agricultural leand                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in liviog quartets as percentego
only,                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population a&.srutr    accen t  - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yrear), and ried(5 years and over) em percentage. of mid-                    EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban, - Compound annusi                  Primary school - total. and female - Total and female enrollmen.t of all ages
growth rates of total aud urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level am percentages of respectively primary school-ege
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged h-1l years hut adjueted for
Crude birth rate (per, thousand) - Annual live birtbs par thousand of                     different lengtha of primary education; for coun.triea with universal edu-
mid-year population: ten-year aritbetic averages ending in 1960 aud                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupil.aera halos  or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                     above the official school age.
Crude d.ath rate (p-r tho...and) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total. and female - Computed ae above; secondary ed.ca-
year population; ten-year aritmeatic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion raquire.eat is...t four year. of approved primary intuto;pro-
and five-year average ending in 1971 for most recent estimate.                          lid.. general vocational. or~ teacher training inetructi... for pupil.
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughtere a woman% will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in hoc nrmaI ieproductive pariod if she experiemnes present age-                        excluded.
apecific fertility rates; usually five-year average, ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Perccent of secondaryl  - Vocational  institutiona 10-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         cude technical, Industrial. or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or as dep.tatrtset  of secondary inatitutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national femily                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       poImery and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the c-r-
Family planning - users (percent of maried wme)-Perceetaga of                              sponding levels.
married women of child-bear.ing age (15-44 peace) who uae birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) a
devices to all married women ins ame age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD ANDO NUtTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Indx of food p-oduction per capita (1970-100) - loden number of per                    Passenger care (per thousand population) - Passenger care comprise macor cern
capita annua  production of all food commodities.                                     seating Lees than eight persons; excludes anbul-ncen, hearuen end military
Per capita supply of calories (Percent of requirements) - Computed from                 vehicls..
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio re.neivers (per thocaaand populetion) - All typen of r-civera for radic
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lese               broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes  nicce
exports. and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, needs,              receivers in countries and in pearm  when registnrtion of radio mets was ir,
quantities use d in food processing, and lossess in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years mav not be comparable mince most coun.tries
quirements were estimated by FAO based en physiological needs for no-                 abolished licensing.
mel activity and hsalth considering envirooetal tamperature, body                    TV receiverm (per thousand populatinni  - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, ag.eand sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thoueand population; excludes un1lcenoed TV receivero  incu-
cent for waste at household l1vel.                                                      tries and in years when regietrati.n  of TV sara was in effect.
Per capita supply of protedin inrea pe  day   - Protein content of per                 Newspapercrulto  (Per thousand popul.ti.n) - Sh.us th. .v-rgo   i-1ul-
capit. net supply offoHerdy              et supply of food is defined astin of "deily general Intereat newspeper". defined as a periodical pubh,-
above.  Requiremwents for all cmutitries  established by UJSDA provide for              cation devoted primarily to reco.rding general ne.n.  It i. considered ii
afcmInmum allowace of 60 grema of total protein per day and 20 grama                    be "daily" If it appears at least four times a week.
oenimal and pulse protein, of which 10 greatsehould be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance Per capita per year - Based on the numb-r of ticker,
These standards are lowr than those of 75 grama of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 graxo of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                     unite.
PAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and Pule. - Protein supply of fond                QWVMENT
derived from animals end pulses in grama per day.                                    TotaL labor force (thousands) - E-conmically active permons, including armed
Child (ages 1-i) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding hoosewivn, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years. to children in this age group.                              tione In various countries are not comparable.
Pena. (prcen) -Female laborf force ae percentage o f total labor forc..
HEALTH                                                                                   Aniurr  prent) - Lbor force in fa rming, frestry, hunting and fishing
Lifeexpctat,  t brth(yers)- Average number of peers of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth: usually five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970,                 Industry (percet)t  - Labor forte in mining, co... ructio.n  manufacturing and
and 197).                                                                               electricity, water and gas es percentage of total labor forc..
infant mortality rat  (er hoad   - Annual danchs of infatst under                      Participation rate (Percent) - total, pale, end female - Total. sale, sod
one year of age per thousan.d live birhts.                                               I -l-  lebor force as percentages of the ir cespectrice populatIons
Acce.s to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These ere ILO'.sedjusted participation rstes reflecting so-eon
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structur  of the Ppoplation, end mcig tine trend.
safe water supply (includes crested surface waters on untreated hot                  tnoidenecyrio-Ratio of populatico under ii sod 65 and ove  cc
uncootaninated water such em that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force 1n age group of 15-hi yearn.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their reepective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or  tradpoet loca.ted not more,                  INCOYqE DISTRInB.-TION
thac 200 meters from  a house say he considered as being within re.-                 Percentage of Private iscoma  (both in cash and bind) received bY rIchest I
aonable  cce  of that houae.  In rural areas rexannable access would                     pecn. richest 20 pret   ors  20 pecntend pors40  eco
imply tht the housewife or meber. of the household do not have to                        of hous.eholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in, fetching the family's
water needa.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUIPS
Acceas to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute Poverty income level (1S) per cayita) - urban and r.t.1 
rural - Number of peopla (total, urban, and rural) served by eacreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that Income level beloc which a mini-a
diepo..al as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus sesential non-food requirements  is Oct
disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of h-. a xortcaend weete-tace  by water-born  systems                      Esftimated relative poverty income, level fill per capita) - urba.nsd  -cr1-
or the use of pit privias end similar installations,.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level lees than one-third
Poplaetion per physician - PopulAtion divided by number of practicing                      per capita personal income, of the coun try.
physicians qualified from  a medical school at university Level.                      Estimated  opoulati-n below poverty incom leve   (percen.t) - arbas and rural-
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either 'absolute poor" n
practicing male and fale. graduate nurs.es, practical macsea, and                        'relative poor' whichever is greeter.
ass istant nurses.
trono..ic and Social Eu- Div.isio
Ec-noic Analys1n  and PecoosDeP.rt-ep



CYPRtUS UOCICOVEONN                 .I/2p 4of 7
Actu"                               Pro____________ell ____tea0  neWRj.,1977
----------~~~'~~L........  .i5~~~.  Proletled         -       T973'    iS?'~191-    15/07-    19O1-   Share
19731 197  11975                95      17         180        91        195        19 77      1978      1981       1985    of CII?
A. NAI10lNAL, ACCOUNTS
(M IIIan at 1975 pricea)
CDP (M..                               1069.7   687.8       958.8    1023.1   1083.5   1147.5   1215.3   1517.3              18.1.      6.7        5.9        5.7    100.0
Galns from Terns and Trade               20.8        .0      -4           3.3       7.5       11.5       9.4        6.9             -          -          -         -
Gross Domestic Inco,m,,                1090.5   687.8       95.       1026.4   1091.1    1159.0    1224.7    1524.3          17.9        7.5       6.1        5.6     99.6
E.poet. (g , ou) -Volume                566.2   275.3       480.5      477. 2     525.0      561.3    653.9       928.6      32.2      -0.6       11.0        9.2      50.1
Exports (g + nf.f) .TT cd.              587.0   275.3    476.5         481.0      532.6      592.8     663.3      935.5      31.6        1.0      11.3        8.9     49.7
Imports (g + nf,,)                     -136.6  -395.2   -647.8    -707:3   -751.7   -795.7   -844.6  -1091.3                28.0        9.2        6.1        6.6      67.6
RIo...r.. gap - TT adj.                 1419.6    119.9     171.3      226.3      219.2      202.8      181.3     155.9        -          .                    -       17.8
C.ns.mption                   954.,6   685.7    895.4    102 1. 6    1079.1   1126.1    1165.5    1399.9           14.3      14.1        4.5        4.6      93.4
Ln," ment                   ~ ~~~285.5    1.22.0    230.4    231.1      231.1      235.8     240.6      280.0     37.4         D.3       1.4        3.9      24.0
D-er*ttc Savinga                        135.8       1.1      59.1.        4.7       11.9      33.0       59.3     124.1        -          -                    -        6.2
HatLonal Savingu                        167.3      84.8     143.1        96.i      96.5      109.7~    127.8      169.5        -                     --                14.9
GDP (at current Us$2                    959.1    687.8      989.2      1211.6   1398.6    1584.8    1779.0   2696.6            - 
Share
B.  SECTOR OUTpUr                                                             (fre.)~.     at 1973 prlce. (Z)                    sector Groweth Rates                       f   D
Share__ __ ___of_ __ __ __ __ __                                                                    ofGO
Agriculture                              13.3      16.8       14.9       14.2       13.7       13.2      12.6       11.6       8.3        i.o       2.3        3.0     14.9
Iod,,stry_3                              29.0      24.5      27.7        251.6      29.8       30.2      31.6       34.4      2 L.8     1.1.0       9.2        7.9     27.7
Services                                 57.6      58.6      5 7.4       57.0       56.5       56.1      55.6       54.0      13.4       5.7        5.0        4.9     57.4
C. PRICES (1371-1.00)
Lxport Fr'ice Inde. /4                 70.81    100.00   108.46        113.43    121.16   129.14    136.58    123.04            - 
Import Pri.e Indea 7                   68.30    100.00   109.45        112.55    119.45   126.63   134.65    171.77             -                               - 
Tce.s of Trod,, 1al.~ nc   /          103.67    1.00.00    99.09       100.78    101.44   101.98    101.44    100.374           -                                  
GDP (tro.p.) Deflator   ii             75.23    100.00    109.17    118.24    125.08    131.10    146.28    177.74              -                               -         -
Average Exchange Rate (Ci   9           0.35       0.37      0.41        0.38
D-L_L_L___T_______LA__R                                                                                                           Period Average
In-c.ent.1  C.Pit.1/outp.t  R.tio                                                             ~ ~ ~~~~~~2.4  3.6    3.6        3.7        -
Irrport Ala-ticity                       .                    .                                ..                              1.55       1.3 7     1.04       1.16 
Aver.80 National Savings gate.                                                      .          ..                   .         1  3.6      9.4        9.7      11.0 
rlargi.at 1National Savings arte                                                                                               2       1.5  69.    169.4      .1.2L8
Iopr veto,/GDP                                                                                                                20.7      241        20. 5      16.9        -
R esource   G ap/ GDP                                                                         ~ ~~ ~~   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~15.0  2 3 .4   17.   5  1. L.7  -
1.  1.ARO Po    t 3FRF                         973-1k   1975      1977                           E. -PUBLIC FIN-ANCE                      1973 1/       19 75      1977
Labot Force (1000)                      279.7    207.7    204.5                                  Ta`a. of GVP at turranL r.P.)
tlne-PloYo,c-   ('000)                    3.3       33.5       6.2
(3                                       (1.2)   (16.1)       (3.0)                              Current revenue,                     16.2          19.2       20.6
Employ .e.t ('000)                      276.4      174.2     198.3                               Current oxpendit,,r,                 15.6          28.9       25.4
Agric.ltore                           (34.0)   (26.0)    (23.2)                      .         CVer1on,e,j lelpn1s   -           -  0.6           -4.6      -4.
Industry .3                           (20.1)   (23.6)   (25.6)                                 DefciOopt/rpu cxod3ae                  .7         14.6       -.2.
ServIce,                   . ~~~~~~~(39.9) _'(48.4)    (30. 7)
/1  Data up to July 1974 refer to the whole of Cyprus; data thereaferefro  ctCyo. nladaedeeor
nor directly comparable with those for earlier years.
72  R.-         ,,or -tdd uo  due  to  rounding  errors.
73  Include, eanufacturbeg,  cocatruotlo,,,  utilities, and  mining.
74 Nerch.odi-e trad-.
ASfNAtl'I IA
c;tjober 31, 1978



CYPRUS:  Import Detail /1                                                                           ANNIEX I
Pa8e 5 of 7
Growth Rates
Actual                            Est.                  Projected                         1970MT -             797T-    1978-      1981-
1970     1973            1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1985            1973      1977      1978      1981      1985
Constant 1975 Prices
(Millions of Dollars)
1.1 Food                                   75.3      72.1            60.4      76.4      92.1      99.4    102.4    104.6    106.1        114.3           -1.4       23.5       7.9       2.2       1.9
1.2 Other Consumer Goods                   60.7    105.7             32.9      55.6      82.0      92.8      98.5    102.0    108.9       162.1           20.3       57.9      13.2       5.5       9.5
2. Petroleum, Oil, Lubricanto              64.9      80.3            48.9      48.2      55.7      59.5      62.3      65.7      69.3      85.9             7.4       6.7      6.9        5.2       5.5
3. Other Intermediate Goods               137.7    302.2            127.2    179.0    218.2    241.0    266.5    291.8    319.6    438.8                  30.0       31.0     10.4        9.8       8.2
4. Capital Goods                            66.0     99.3            39.0      57.2    120.8       128.2    129.2    134.4    139.7       170.7            14.6      35.0       6.1       3.0       5.1
5.1 Total Goods (CIF)                     404.5    659.6            308.4    416.4    568.8       620.9    658.9    698.5    743.6    971.8                17.7      35.8       9.2       6.2       6.9
6. Non-factor Services                      38.0      77.0            86.8      76.2     78.9      86.5      92.8      97.2    101.0      119.5           26.5       -8.9       9.6       5.3       4.3
7. Total Goods and N8S                    442.5    736.6            395.2    492.6    647.7       707.3    751.7    795.7    844.6   1091.3                18.5      28.0       9.3       6.1       6.6
Price Index (1975 - 100)
1.1 Food                                   51.41   91.44           100.00     97.60     99.77      80.91     78.17     77.63     82.08    105.52            -          -         _         _         _
1.2 Other Consumer Goods                   65.91   74.84           100.00     95.72    102.53     105.49    111.79    117.93    125.69    160.57            -          -         -         -          -
2. Petroleum, Oil, Lubricants              25.90    31.13          100.00    135.37    154.83     162.37    177,40    192.43    203.74    257.42             -          -
3. Other Intermediate Goods                66.39    66.58          100.00    104.50    112.98     120.90    128.67    136.47    144.60    182.58            -          -
4. Capital Goods                            73.91    79.82         100.00     92.84     94.24      101.17   107.30    113.80    120.58    152.26             -          -         -         -
5.1 Total Goods (CIF)                      58.27   68.30           100.00    104.03    109.45     112.03 _-118.72    125.85    133.91    171.14              -          -         -         -         _
6. Non-factor Services                      58.27    68.30         100.00    104.03    109.45     117.00    124.66    132.22    140.09    176.89             -          -         -         -
7. Total Goods and NFS                     58.27    68.30          100.00    104.03    109.45     112.65    119.45    126.63    134.65    171.77             -         -          -         -
9..i~
Current Values
S fllion       s of  lars)
1.1 Food                                   38.7    65.9              60.4      74.6      91.9      80.4      80.1      81.2      87.0     120.6            19.4       23.4    -12.5        2.7       8.5
1.2 Other Consumer Goods                   40.0    79.1              32.9      53.2      84.1      97.9     110.1    120.3    136.9       260.3            25.5       59.9      16.4      11.8      17.4
2. Petroleum, Oil, Lubricants               16.8    25.0             48.9      65.2      86.3      96.4      110.5    126.5    141.3       221.1    _      14.2       32.8      11.7      13.6      11.8
3. Other Intermediate Goods                 91.4   201.2            127.2    187.1    246.5    291.4         342.9    39813     462.1    801.2             30.0       39.2      18.2      16.6      14.7
4. Capital Goods                            48.8    79.3              39.0     53.1      113.8     129.7    138.6    152.9    168.5        259.9           17.6       70.8      14.0       9.1      11.4
5.1 Total Goods (CIF)                      235.7   450.5            308.4    433.2    622.6        695.6    782.2    879.1    995.8    1663.1              24.2       42.1      11.7      12.7      13.7
6. Non-factor Services                      22.1    52.6              86.8      79.2      86.4     101.2    115.7    128.5    141.5    211.5               33.5        0.0      17.1      11.8      10.6
7. Total Goods and NFS                    257.8   503.1             395.2    512.4    709.0    796.8        897.9    1007.6   1137.2   1874.6              25.0       33.9      12.4      12.6      13.3
/ Sums may not add up due to rounding errors.                                                                                                                                 hERA CP EA        -
October 31, 1978



CYPRUS: ExporL Detail                                                                                        Pogo 6 of 7
Growth lates
Actual                       Est.                  Proiected                                          -      1975-    1977-     1 -    1981-
1970    1973       1975     1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1985                           1973      1977      1978     M91       1985
Constant 1975 Prices
(Millions of Doll-rs)
1.1 Citrus                                           26.3    55.8        14.1     12.3      16.3      15.1    15.2       15.4     15.5       16.8                          28.5       7.5    -7.3        0.9       2.0
1.2 Potatoes                                         32.3    47.5        20.9     32.4      41.9      33.0    33.4       33.7     34.0      36.8                           13.7      41.6   -21.2        1.0       1.9
1.3 Other Agricultural Products                      38.5    52.7        30.9     42.9      66.8      68.8    72.9       78.0     84.3     116.8                           11.0      47.0      3.0       7.0       8.5
1.4 Textiles                                          2.2      6.9       9.3      19.4      26.7      23.9    24 2       24 4     24.6      25.6                           46.4      69.4   -10.5        1.0       1.0
1.3 Cemert                                         -             4       16.2     22.9      24.0      19.6    18.6      18.6      24.2      25.3                             -       21.0   -183.3       7.3       1.1
2.   _ _ewned  Goods                                  5.0      6.6       14.6     24.5      33.2      33.4    35.2       An.9      .0        88.0                            9.7     50.8      0.4      13.6      15.8
3.  All Other Goode                  4.3                       39.0      36.0      72.1      73.7     69.9      79.5     87.4    96.8       143.0                                     42.9    -5.2      11 5      10 2
4.  Total Goods (F.o.B.)                            148.6   218.9       142.1    226.4    282.5      263.8   379.0    298.4    3Z-.    452.4                                         41.0    -6.6        7.5       8.3
5.  Non-factor Services                             207.2   347.3      133.2    172.8    198.4       213.9   286.0    282.9    325.3        476.2                          18.8       22.0      7.8      15.0     10.0
6.  Total Goods and NFS                             355.7   566.2      275.3    399.2    480.8       477.7   525.0    381.3    653.7        928.6                          16.8       32.2    -0.6      11.0       9.2
Price Index (1975 - 100)
I   Citrus                                           65.81   82.97   100.00    101.24   100.06   108.30  112.20   110.20   116.77   147.21
1.2 Potatoes                                         48.34   51.84   100.00    133.46   113.70   133.03  i56.98   179.42   193.23   259.98
1.3 Other Agricultural Products                      57.39   71.19   100.00    112.44   103.23    86.87   85.65    86.85    92.28   118.97                                             -         -        -
1.4 Textiles                                         59.98   84.47   100.00    105.39   110.24    82.09   88.25   100.51   112.19   164.79                                   -          -        -
1.5 Ceant                                              -      69.11   100.00      97.56   108.93   109.84   110.94  .,12.05    99.17   111.73                                           -        -
2.  IMnufactured Goods                               59.88   84.39   100.00    105.33   110.64J 118.    125.91  .133.53   11_ 63   178-66
3. All Other Goods                                   89.84   73.89   100.00    188.04   107.60   130.04  139.74   150.45   159.92   193.92
4.  Total Goods (F.O.B.)                             66.69   74.79   100.00    110.55   107.76   110.53  118.08  1126.22    133.19  .168.99                                  _          -        _        _
5.  Non-factor Services                              58.27   68.30   100.00    104.03   109.45   117.00  124.66    132.22   140.12   176.89
6.  Total Goods and NFS                              61.79   70.81   100.00    107.73   108.46   113.43  121.16    129.14   136.63   173.04
Current Values
(Millions of Dollars)
1.1 Citrus                                           17.3    46.3        14.1     12.5      16.3      16.3     17.1      16.9     18.1      24.8                          38.8        7.5        0.0   3 6       8.2
1.2 Potatoes                                         15.6    24.6       20.9      43.2      47.6     44.0      52.4      60.5     65.7      95.8                          16.4       50.9      -7.6  14.3         9
1.3 Other Agricultural Products                      22.1    37.5        30.9     48.2      69.0     59.8      62.6      67.8     77.8    138.9                           19.3       49.4    -13.3   9.2        15.6
1.4 Textiles                                          1.3      5.8       9.3      20.4      29.4      19.6     21.3      24.5     27.6      42.3                          64.6       77.8    -33.3  12.1        11.3
1.5 Censor                                             -        .3      16.2      22.3      26.1     21.6      20.7      20.9     24.0      28.3                            -        u.2      -L22    3.6        4.2
3.  MAnufactuere Good.                                3.        .         46      25.8      36.7      39.5     44.3      54.6     69.4    157.2                           23i-.  -0 7
3.  AllOtherd Goods                                  39.8    43.6        36.1     77.9      79.3      90.9    111.1    131.5    154.8    2762. 4.2                                                              .15.7
4.  Total Goode (F.0.B.)                             991     137        121      203       344       21.       2.        7.       3.        7.                               .         8.2                       22f.4 1.7
99.1   16.7  142.  250.3 304.4    21.6    32.5    376.    437.4 764.5                          18.2       46.4       -4.2  14.5      15.0
5.  Non-factor Services                             120.7   237.2      133.2    179.8    217.1    250.3    306.7    374.0    455.8    842.3                               25.3       27.7      15.3   22.1       16.6
6.  Total Goods and NFS                             219.8   400.9      273.3    430.1    521.5    541.9    636.2    750.7    893.2   1606.8                               22.2       37.6       3.9   18.1       15.8
1/  Sums may not add up due to rounding errors.
EMEMA CP IIA
October 31, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
CYPRUS:   Balance of Payments and External Assistancel-
Actual                       Est.                      Proiected                          Growth Rates
1973      1975       1976       1977        1978        1979       1980       1981       1985      1970-73   1975-77   1977-85
Summary of Balance of Payments
1.   Exports (Including NFS)                              400.9      275.3     430.1      521.5       541.9       636.1      750.7      893.1    1606.8                    37.6       15.1
2.   Imports (Including NFS)                              503.1      395.2      512.4      709.0       796.8       897.9    1007.6    1137.3    1874.7                     33.9       12.9
3.   Resource Balance                                    -102.2    -119.9       -82.3    -187.5      -255.0      -261.8    -256.9    -244.1    -267.9                      25.1        4.6
4.   Net-factor Service Income                              6.6       10.6       11.2       19.1        28.9        32.4       33.4       36.0      45.Z                   34.2       11.4
4.1  Net Interest Payments                                  5.1        -.2       -5.9      -11.5        -9.9       -16.3      -22.7      -28.4      -53.0                   -         21.0
of which on pub M&LT loans                            -3.0       _4.9       -5.3      -8.6       -11.4       -16.1      -21.0      -25.2      -52.2                   32.4       25.3
4.2  Direct Investment Income                                .0         .0         .0         .0        -1.4        -1.6       -1.8       -2.1       -3.7                   -          -
4.3  Workeru Remittance (Net)                               1.5       10.8       17.1       30.6        40.3        50.3       57.9       66.5      101.8                  68.3       16.2
5.   Current Transfers (Net)                               14.9       72.1       60.7       72.8        78.0        73.0       68.0       60.0       35.0                   0.5       -5.4
6.   Balance on Current Account                           -80.7      -37.2      -10.4      -95.6     -148.0      -156.3    -155.5    -148.1    -187.7                      60.3        8.8
7.   Private Direct Investment                             26.5       11.0       37.8       23.9       27.5         31.6      36.3       41.8        73.1                  47.4       15.0
Public and M&LT Loans:
8.   Disbursements                                         22.0        9.8       27.3       65.5        68.2        84.7       90.6      118.8      222.7                 258.5       16.5
9.   Amortization                                          -5.3       -5.1       -9.3       -7.0       -12.3       -22.4      -41.5     -59.2    -137.7                    17.2       45.1
10.  Net Disbursements                                     16.6        4.7       17.9      58.5        55.9         62.3      49.1       59.6        85.0                 352.8        4.8
11.  Use of IMF Resources                                    .0        2.1       40.4         .0          .0          .0         .0         .0         .0                   -          -
12.  Short-term Capital Transactions                       20.9       -4.3      -12.7        5.6         7.5         8.0        8.5        9.0       15.7                   -         13.8
13.  Capital Transactions NEI                               3.8      -27.5       44.1      47.6         30.0        34.5       39.7      45.6        66.8                   -          4.3
14.  Change in Reserves (- = increase)                     12.8       51.2    -117.1      -40.0         27.2        20.0      21.9        -7.9     -52.9                    -          3.6
15. Net Foreign Exchange
Reserves (end of period)                             306.8      215.2     291.9      332.2       305.0       285.0      263.1      271.0      468.7                   24.2
16.  Exchange Rate ($/CL)                                   2.86       2.72       2.44       2.45        2.61           2/-          -                -           Actu-Al   -
2/                   ~~~~~1 97T3  19 75     1976      1r97-7
Grant and Loan Commitments                                                                         Debt & Debt Service-
1    Total Public M&LT Loans                               16.8        7.0       52.0       70.0   Total Debt Outstanding (DOD
1.1  IBRD                                                   5.4         .0       16.0       10.0   end of period)                                     57.3       76.3       94.4      162.3
1.2  Other Multilateral                                      .0        5.6       24.0        5.2   Public Debt Service                                8.3        10.1       14.6       15.6
1.3  Governments                                             .0         .0       10.4        8.2     of which Interest                                (3.0)      (4.9)      (5.3)      (8.6)
1.4  Suppliers                                              3.4        1.4         .0       16.9   Debt Service Ratio                                  2.1        3.7        3.4        3.0
1.5  Financial Institutions                                 2.9         .0        1.4       30.0
Int. on Total DOD/Total DOD                        5,3        6.5        5.6        5.3
Memorandum Items                                                                                   Total Debt Services/Total DOD                      14.J5      13.2       15.4        9.6
1.   Grant Element of Total                                                                        IBRD Disb./Gross Total Pisb.                       44.7       2P.4       11.0        5.0
Commitments                                           15.8        7.8       17.0        8.8   IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                 52.9       51.0       42.1       24.9
2.   Average Interest (percent)                             6.7        8.1        7.1        7.8   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt
3.   Average Maturity (years)                              14.4        6.6       12.5        9.0   Service                                            34.5       47.0       34.4       34.8
1/  Data up to July 1974 refer to the whole of Cyprus; data thereafter refer to southern Cyprus only and are therefore not
directly comparable with those for earlier years.                                                                                                                     EMENA CPIIA
2/  Yearly information on private debt is not available.  However, total private medium and long-term debt outstanding is very                                            October 31, 1978
small as a result of the 1974 events.  Total short-term debt outstanding was $58 million at the end of 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of December 31, 1978)
US$ Millions
Amount
Loan
Number    Year        Borrower             Purpose         (less cancellations)    Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                                          46.0
729     1971    Sewage Board        Sewerage
of Nicosia          System                       2.7                 0.3
730     1971    Sewage Board        Sewerage and
of Famagusta        Drainage System              1.9                 0.5
904     1973    Republic of         Highway I
Cyprus                                           5.4                 3.7
960     1974    Republic of         Paphos
Cyprus              Irrigation                  14.0                10.2
1278     1976    Cyprus Develop-    DFC
ment Bank                                        6.0                 1.4
1344     1976    Republic of         Highway II
Cyprus                                          10.0                10.0
1483     1977    Republic of         Rural
Cyprus             Development                  10.0                10.0
1540     1978    Cyprus Ports        Ports II
Authority                                        8.5                 8.5
Total                                                  104.5
of which has been repaid                             16.2
Total now outstanding                                   88.3
Amount sold                       2.3
of which has been repaid       2.3
Total now held by Bank                                  88.3
Total undisbursed                                                           44.6



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1978)
Amount of US$
Year              Obligor              Type of Business       Loan       Equity       Total
1972      Cyprus Cement Company          cement                2.3        0.6          2.9
1977      Cyprus Pipes Industry          construction
material              0.5        0.2         0.7
Total gross commitments                              2.8       0.8          3.6
Less cancellations, sales
terminations and repayments                          1.1       0.1          1.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                    1.7       0.7          2.4
Total Undisbursed                                     -        0.1          0.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 729 - Nicosia Sewerage Project: US$2.7 million loan of April 5,
1971. Effective Date: July 16, 1971. Closing Date: (original) March 31,
1975; (current) September 30, 1979.
The system was largely completed in July 1974 when construction was
interrupted.  After prolonged negotiations, a mutually acceptable solution
was reached between the Turkish Cypriots and the Nicosia Sewage Board, and
arrangements were formally agreed upon in September 1978 to complete the
final stages of the project.  A Canadian consulting engineering firm and Bank
mission representatives visited Cyprus at the end of October 1978 to review
progress, estimate costs, and schedule construction of remaining project
components. Construction is now expected to begin again in early 1979, with
completion tentatively planned in 1980.
Loan No. 730 - Famagusta Sewerage Project: US$1.9 million loan of April 5,
1971. Effective Date: July 16, 1971. Closing Date: (original) March 31,
1975; (current) March 31, 1979.
The project was about 90 percent complete by July 1974, when con-
struction was interrupted. The project site lies completely in Famagusta,
which is under the control of the Turkish Cypriot administration. Completion
of this project therefore depends on a political settlement. Following the
visit of a UNDP representative in September 1977, the Famagusta Sewage Board
has requested the assistance of UNDP to initiate maintenance operations on
the equipment and machinery already installed. The Sewage Board is also
in the process of negotiating a solution to the outstanding claims of the
contractor, CYBARCO, Ltd. The closing date has been extended to March 31,
1979, pending further progress towards a settlement.
Loan No. 904 - First Highway Project: US$5.4 million loan of June 12, 1973.
Effective Date: September 12, 1973. Closing Date: (original) December 31,
1976; (current) December 31, 1979.
The construction element of this Loan, a new four-lane divided
Nicosia-Morphou highway, was interrupted by the events of July/August 1974
shortly after its start in May 1974.  The Bank has agreed to the Government's
request to a change of loan description that allows the use of up to US$3.6
million to make up the foreign exchange shortfall for the construction of
a new Nicosia-Limassol highway under the Second Highway Project, Loan 1344-
CY. Amendments to the Loan Agreement were concluded in 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan No. 960 - Paphos Irrigation Project: US$14.0 million loan of January 30,
1974. Effective Date: October 10, 1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Engineering of project works is nearing completion. Work on the
main canal has been completed and the contract for construction of the
Asprokremos Dam has been awarded. Land consolidation is progressing satis-
factorily and training of farmers at the "Farmers Training Center" is con-
tinuing with high farmers interest and participation. Overall progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1278 - Second Cyprus Development Bank Project: US$6.0 million loan
of June 3, 1976.  Effective Date:  October 1, 1976.  Closing Date:  June 30,
1981.
The loan was essentially fully committed by the end of 1978, with
the remaining uncommitted balance, a small portion of the $0.75 million small
scale industry component, expected to be committed early in 1979. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed well ahead of the Closing Date. The man-
agement and expanding staff of CDB are capable and have developed an excellent
project appraisal and supervision capability.
Loan No. 1344 - Second Highway Project: US$10.0 million loan of December 31,
1976. Effective Date: October 11, 1977. Closing Date: April 30, 1982.
Evaluation of bids for the main construction contract have been
reviewed by the Bank and the contract is expected to be awarded in early 1979.
Consultants to assist in supervising construction have been appointed.
Loan No. 1483 - Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million loan of August 18, 1977. Effective Date: November 7, 1977. Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Preparation of designs and tenders for project components is pro-
gressing steadily. Preliminary designs for a portion of the village roads
component have been completed and approved by the Bank. Plans and equipment
lists for the rural health component have also been finalized, with tenders
expected to be issued early in 1979. Contracts for two of the small irriga-
tion water storage ponds have been awarded. The study on financing of agri-
culture investments is being revised to take into account the Bank's comments
and is expected to be completed early in 1979.
Loan No. 1540 - Second Ports Project; $8.5 million loan of April 12, 1978.
Effective Date: August 11, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Tender documents are under preparation and are expected to be
issued in early 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare         Two years
project:                                 (November 1975 - October 1977)
(b) The agency which has prepared
the project:                            Water Development Department,
Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources, Cyprus
(c) Date of first presentation to
Bank:                                   October 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                May 29, 1978
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                           December 15, 1978
(f) Expected date of loan
effectiveness:                          April 30, 1979
Section II - Special Implementation Action by Bank
None
Section III - Special Conditions
A.   The appointment of the Project Manager and his two deputies are condi-
tions of effectiveness (para 43).
B.   The Government has agreed that:
1.   Water charges for use of surface water will be collected from
project beneficiaries and will be reviewed periodically, but
not less than once every five years, so as to recover (i) the
full operation and maintenance costs of project facilities,
and (ii) 50 percent of the weighted average of the unit costs
of all investments for major irrigation works over a lifetime
of 40 years, and at an interest rate of at least 9 percent per
annum (para 48).
2.   Water charges for ground water from the Gypsum aquifer will be
set at a rate sufficient to recover the full capital, operation
and maintenance costs over the project lifetime of 40 years, at
an interest rate of at least 9 percent per annum (para 48).



ANNEX III
Page 2
C.   The Government has provided assurances that:
1.   Persons owning agriculture land in the project area who may
have left after July 1974, may resume farming of such lands
whenever they may wish to do so, and any other person farming
these lands in the meantime will do so only temporarily,
with no transfer of ownership taking place, except by suc-
cession from or agreement by the owners concerned. In the
event any of these absentee owners ultimately decide not
to return, the Government will make appropriate arrangements
to safeguard their ownership rights or disposal thereof,
within the context of a general settlement of such matters
in Cyprus (para 38).
2.   Domestic water will continue to be supplied to the Turkish
Cypriots in the Nicosia, Larnaca and Famagusta areas on an
equitable basis to the extent this is technically possible,
and bearing in mind the needs of the population as a whole
(para 40).
.






at                                  A~~~~~~~~~~~
_~   ot         i5N                               V   -   N   V     8g
33VOSd SONMlSYaN3d-SO)B1SVA
: 0 f s~~.4g vjsF8avmg5                                                           /noyd,ow
t                                                                                       3 
j ts w z :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--v--? AI-
v  S    N V' - N Vd e y            aW                oV5
ot ,  3V!uAS  A   ,ig,i
|   ,  , a-0 5 S                                                                r    * <. i       <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A)~l






To /corno, <                -
C Y P R U S 
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT ,--'  
Project Facilities
Project Area (Surlace)                    /                        1rr |
M\7        Proiect Areo (Gro-ndwater ). )t                                                     
Esistrg Irrigation Schemes                                                                                lb'                                J/
GOVERNMENT WORKS 'I
Euishino   Project   1st P ose   2ndPhase   5                          <_
Pipelhnes                                                    I -  /  /  /   /
Conals                       . . .                              PANO LEFKARA                                                               Kornos
Tunnels                     ]s *                                                                 r .ts                 (2   /    Treatmenat Plant and
Tur.els  3..... C                    8.  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~tPu   ing Statio
Syphons                             )               ]. KATO LEFKARA                                   \
Treatment Plonts    0                                0       \\                                         5           -
Pumping Stwhons     0                                0           1--                              ti \0  \                                            /
Storage Reser"oars    A                              A          I     <                                            r/
Groundwater Wells                                                                    Re o o   of          -
_______ Roods                      |            (       <  t   Lefkara-KKhirokitia
Pri-ry  Roads                                                             aln
---     - Secondary Ro-ds                                                                                      Dam and            Nico )Pipeline  SDhyptamos)    COsi'
New Linassal - N,cos,a Road      /                                            Moroni               Pumping 
Tows                            N                                            Diversion jation
Riers                           |                                              Canal                         912
KILOMETERS
/9P m igtto                  Dierio        s .                               r.)netPlntad)
Kala asos                                                                                IN
f t  V      {W//                      >                                                    A  /~~Kiroit 
.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Su-uraeDam                                                                                                                       oI - NicO\siAON fs
Klvasos                         IROKITIA _                         hirokitio Existing
-' Pumping Station                                                   Treatervo   Pir n   a
/ -~~~---7 .-I
A                      SCHEME  ,'~~~~~~~~~THOD
Thisn rophko btrenopreer-aytte                                                                                       r        n r          r 
Waytetpoatrn CCitt eaoworye ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      Penasins  rrgaio   Ppoin
Ore neorrerrienTokori Ne rooderroor
doaoriorg/rlyor0Evharpornofdre                     M>1e diZte rr a nean    Se a                                                         -   P4roect AreoaSbr
Word ee ar io ofefitteo. coy                                                                                                                     0  a > <    20   40  bOa0
cay* eritor or an roitthrhruirroo                                                                                                                   v ILOrMETERs    a C)
or aoerOcrrn otono OReservoisora



