Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  CY
Report No. 2254-CY
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
January 10, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =     Cypriot Pound (CE)
1 CG                =      1,000 Mils
1 CE                =      2.6 US Dollars (US$)
1 US$               =      0.385 CG
1 US$               -      385 Mils
CE Million           =     US$2.6 Million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 oke                        =      1.28 kilograms (kg)
1 kilogram (kg)              =     2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)         =     2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)                  =     0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)           =     35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter (m3)           -     264 US gallons
1 liter per second (l/s)           0.035 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 imperial gallon                  1.2 US gallons
I hectare (ha)               =     7.5 donums
I hectare (ha)                     2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq kim)        0.3861 square miles
ABBRViATIOiNS
CCB            The Cooperative Central Bank
CS        -    The Cooperative Society
DA             Department of Agriculture
FAO/CP         FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
FA             Force Account
FWSB      -    Famagusta Water S-upply Board
GD             Geological Survey Department
ICB            Intercnationai Competitive Bidding
LCA       -    Land Consolidation Authority
LC        -    Loar Commissioners
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
LWSB      -    Larnaca Water Supply Board
M&I       -    Municipal and Industrial
MANR      -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCM       -    Million Cubic Meters
NWB       -    Nicosia Water Board
NWC       -    Nicosia Water Commission
PAC       -    Project Advisory Committee
PPCC      -    Project Policy Coordinating Committee
WDD       -    Water Development Department
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .............., ......... o.o.............. o.... 1
A.   Introduction . ......................... ...                      1
B.   Agricultural Background and Water Development
in Cyprus .....        ..               .....                    2
Sectoral Setting .2..       o .2
Land Resources ..  ...     ......  . .. .o. ...             2
Land Tenure and Land Consolidation ........                 3
Water Resources ... ... . ..... .  ..... .....              3
Irrigation Development ...3..............                   3
Domestic Water Supply Development 4........                 4
C.   Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy oo..                  4
II.   THE PROJECT AREA  5..o .... oooooeo**oos*ooo*o*o*ooo*                   5
A.   Location  ooo.  .....  ...o...oooo5
B.   Climate ......  ...o-  .  o.o--  ..o6
C.   Topography, Soils and Geology                                     6
Topography... . . .....  . .                                6
Soils         .                                             6
Geology   .                                                 6
D.   Farm Size, Land Tenure and Demography                             7
Farm Size and Tenure.                                       7
Demography. .                                               7
E.   Existing Infrastructure                                           8
F.  Agricultural Supporting Services.                                  9
Agricultural Research   .o ..............                   9
Agricultural Extension        .     .........               9
Credit...*..                                                9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents  (Continued)                                                           Page No.
III.    THE PROJECT ..................                ...................                10
A.    Brief Description  ........ ...........s..........                        10
B.    Detailed Features                 .............................           11
Kalavasos Dam ........ .o             ....     ... ..              11
Dhypotamos Dam ..................... o..*..*..                      11
Maroni Diversion  *... ....o.........**        o*...*               12
Vasilikos Main Canal and Nightstorage  .....                       12
Pendaskinos Main Pipeline  ..................                      12
Groundwater Development  ................         ....             12
Irrigation Distribution Systems  ...o........                      12
Domestic Water Supply .....o ...  ........... o..                   13
Land Consolidation  .*..o                      ............*...     13
Buildings and Equipment  ........... ....                          14
C.    Status of Design and Engineering  ..............                          14
Consultants  .*.....*........................                      15
Safety of Dams  ........             .....................-        15
D.    Water Demand, Supply and Quality .....0..........                         15
Irrigation Water .. .....  ....................                    15
Nicosia Domestic Water  ..o..o    ............                     16
Larnaca/Famagusta Domestic Water  ..........                       16
Water Quality for Irrigation  o ..............                     16
Water Quality for Potable Use ..o...........                       17
Drainage  ...oo ..... oo           ......      ..... ..17
E.    Water Rights and Laws  ........................                           17
Irrigation ..................................                      17
Domestic Water  .o. .    ..........  .. ..*......                  17
Land and Easements  ..        o............ ..........             18
F.    Implementation Schedule .........................                         18
G.    Cost Estimates  .o................ . .... . . . . . *....                 18
H.    Financing o... o........o..o.o.oo....               oo..............o ......  19
Io   Procurement ..ooo......o....o ..................o .  o.o..ooooo            20
Jo   Disbursements .........*................o; 21
K.    Environmental Impact ............. ..... ...........                      22
L.   Role of Women ...............         .... ...............                 22
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...*.*.*.............o.*.*                               23
A.    Organization and Management  * .............o...*                         23
Coordination and Advisory Committees.......                        23
Project Works  o....*.*.o. .  * .  ... oo ... .o*.o... *.          24
On-Farm Development  ..**....*oo .....*...o..                      24
Agricultural Research  *......*    .                               24



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                        Page No.
Agricultural Extension ....................                     25
Credit   ....................................                   25
Domestic Water Supply .....................                     25
B.    Operation and Maintenance ......................                      25
C.    Accounting and Auditing ........................                      26
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation ......................                       26
V.    TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS ................        .. ............              27
A.    Cropping Patterns  ..............................                     27
Present Cropping Patterns ....            .............         27
Future Cropping Patterns ....            ..............         28
B.    Yields .........................................                      29
Present Yields ............................                     29
Future Yields .............................                     29
VI.    MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................                       30
A.    Production .....................................                      30
B.    Prices .........................................                      30
C.    Marketing ......................................                      31
D.    Producer Income and Financial Rates of Return ..                      31
Income and Employment Structure ...........                     31
Financial Rates of Return ....            .............         32
E.    Project Charges and Recovery of Costs ..........                      34
Allocation of Costs .......................                     34
Cost of Surface Irrigation Water            ..........          35
Cost of Gypsum Aquifer Water ....           ..........          36
Rent and Cost Recovery at the Farm Level ...                    36
Cost Recovery for Bulk Water Supply .......                     39
Cost Recovery for the Multipurpose System..                     39
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............         .. ..........             40
A.    Aggregate Economic Rate of Return ....            ..........          40
Economic Benefits ..............................                     40
Least Cost Solution ............................                     43
B.    Beneficiaries  ..................................                    44
C.    Project Risks ..................................                     45
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........ ......                     46



Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No.
TEXT TABLES
Table 6.1:  Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return .           33
Table 6.2:  Rent and Cost Recovery Indices ....................           38
Table 7.1:  Economic Rate of Return ...........................           42
ANNEXES
Annex 1       .......................................................     47
Table 1.  Key Indicators ....................................            47
Table  2.  Project  Costs   .....................................        48
Table 3.   Schedule of Expenditures and Phasing ....    ..........       49
Table 4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement ....     ............      50
Table  5.  Crop  Yields   .......................................        51
Table 6.  Population, Employment, Census and Beneficiaries
in  Irrigated  Area   .................................       52
Table 7.  Income from Full-Time and Part-Time Farming, 1977
Census   ............................................         53
Table 8.   Income Levels in the Irrigated Area ....     ...........      54
Table 9.  Farm Model 1:  Projected Incremental Cash Flow ....            55
Table 10.  Farm Model 2:  Projected Incremental Cash Flow ....           56
Table 11.  Farm Model 3:  Projected Incremental Cash Flow ....           57
Table 12.  Farm Model 4:  Projected Incremental Cash Flow  ....          58
Table 13.  Equipment List ....................................           59
Table 14.  Irrigation Water Demand and Supply .................          60
Table 15.  Net Irrigation Requirements by Scheme .............           61
Annex 2 .     ......................................................      62
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector ........           62
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the
Project   ...........................................         62
C.   Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawings and Maps            63
CHARTS
World Bank - 19171   System Diagram
World Bank - 19172   Project Organization
World Bank - 19173   Larnaca/Famagusta Domestic Water Supply - Forecast of
Production Requirements
World Bank - 19174   Nicosia Domestic Water Supply -  Forecasts of Population
and Production Requirements
World Bank - 19175   Implementation Schedule
World Bank - 19176   Domestic Water Supply Facilities - Implementation
Schedule
MAPS
IBRD - 13749R Cyprus
IBRD - 13750R Project Facilities
IBRD - 13751R Project Area



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      In order to develop the overall water resources of the island and to
supply additional water to meet the needs of domestic water consumers in the
Nicosia, Larnaca and Famagusta areas, the Government of Cyprus has requested
a Bank loan to assist in financing the development of the water resources and
agriculture in the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos region. This region was identified
by the Cyprus Water Planning Project in the early 1960's as a priority area
due to its adequate natural water resources, close proximity to the port of
Limassol, and low levels of rural incomes.
1.02      Water shortage, not land, is the major constraint to agricultural
development in Cyprus. A five-year water study completed in 1968 by the
UN has shown that the discovery of new underground water supplies is unlikely.
Excessive pumping has already caused an intrusion of sea water into some
citrus producing areas. Since the beginning of the five-year development
plans in 1962, emphasis has been placed on the efficient utilization of
water resources and the development of agriculture through irrigation.
1.03      Although Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963, lending for agricul-
ture began in 1974 with Paphos Irrigation Project, Loan 960-CY (US$14 mil-
lion), and was followed in 1977 by Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development
Project, Loan 1483-CY (US$10 million). Both projects are being implemented
satisfactorily. Lending for agriculture accounts for 23% of total lending as
of November, 1978.
1.04      The proposed project was identified in a 1960 reconnaissance survey
by the Water Development Department (WDD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MANR). It was subsequently incorporated as part of the
long-term development plan prepared by Government with UNDP-FAO assistance
under the "Surveys Demonstration and Planning of Water Utilization Project"
between 1964 and 1970. The proposed project is the fourth and final phase of
a scheme to develop the water resources between the Tremithinos and Vasilikos
River Basins which was begun in 1966. The early phases have been completed
and are under operation. The final feasibility studies leading to the pro-
posed project were carried out by WDD and received by the Bank in October
1977. Two Bank missions visited Cyprus in December 1977 and April 1978 to
discuss the status of additional updating work. This report is based on the
findings of a mission which visited Cyprus to appraise the project in June
1978, comprised of Messrs. J. Tellez, D. McCrary (Bank), and J. Robins and
P. Jeffcoate (consultants). Messrs. A. Thys and K. Thomas (Bank) assisted
in report preparation.



- 2 -
B. Agricultural Background and Water Development in Cyprus
Sectoral Setting
1.05      Between 1960 and 1973 economic growth in Cyprus was rapid, averaging
about 7% per annum. The events of 1974 had a profound effect on the sector.
With the de facto division of the island, 80% of the irrigated citrus planta-
tions, 65% of the rainfed areas, 45% of the olives and 30% of the carobs have
remained in the north under Turkish Cypriot control, while the whole of the
vine-growing area and most of the deciduous fruit areas were in the southern
part under Government control. Economic policies followed in the south since
mid-1974, coupled with a number of external events, have been successful in
shifting the economy from a state of slack economic activity into one of rapid
reactivation. Post 1974 estimates for the whole of Cyprus are not available.
GDP at factor cost in south Cyprus grew by 17.4% in 1976 and an unanticipated
high 12.4% in 1977. Economic growth in 1976 was stimulated primarily by a
substantial growth in foreign demand. In 1977, however, aggregate domestic
demand grew twice as rapidly as output and provided the main impetus to the
expansion of production. On the supply side, the expansion of production in
1977 was made possible by the continued existence of idle land, labor and
machinery, though by the end of 1977 full capacity utilization had been
achieved in many subsectors.
1.06      The share of agricultural output in GDP has been quite volatile
during the 1970's as agriculture is primarily rainfed. The 1973 drought, in
particular, caused a substantial decline in the agricultural sector's share
in GDP, from 17.1% in 1970 to 13.1% in 1973. In 1976, partially as a result
of Government policies in the south and partially as a result of fortuitously
strong foreign demand, the growth rate of the agricultural sector was 12.5%,
and the share of agricultural output rose to over 17.3% of GDP. In 1977,
however, agricultural growth decelerated to a more normal 4.2% p.a. Since
this growth rate was substantially below the growth rate of GDP in 1977, it
resulted in the agricultural sector's share declining to 15% of GDP.
1.07      The agricultural sector exports play an important role in the
foreign exchange earnings of the country. In 1976 agricultural exports
accounted for 37% of total commodity exports. In 1977, export earnings
from potatoes and citrus alone accounted for US$64 million, out of a total
foreign exchange earnings from the export of domestically produced goods of
US$268 million, and exports from the agricultural sector accounted for about
50% of total commodity exports. Thus, in spite of the agricultural sector's
relatively small share of total GDP (15%), and of GDP excluding services
(27%), exports from the sector played a disproportionately important role in
the foreign exchange earnings of the country. In addition, the agricultural
sector employs about 24% of the labor force.
Land Resources
1.08      Of the total land area in Cyprus of 925,000 ha, only 424,000 ha
are cultivated.  In 1974, there were some 380,000 ha of dryland field crops



-3-
and only 44,000 ha under controlled irrigation (not including periodic spate
irrigation). The major crops under irrigation are citrus, vegetables, deci-
duous fruits and table grapes. Livestock-related activities and forestry are
negligible, both in area and in contribution to agriculture's value added.
Land Tenure and Land Consolidation
1.09      Land tenure in Cyprus is a product of tradition, inheritance laws
and population density. There are three land ownership categories: private
(60%), state (39%), and communal (1%). The present land tenure has the
following features: continually decreasing average size of holdings (7.2 ha
in 1946 and 5 ha in 1974); fragmentation and dispersal of plots (12.6 plots
per holding); and dual ownership of plots (about 30% of the agricultural land
is jointly owned). In order to reverse this trend, a Land Consolidation Law
was enacted in 1969 and a Land Consolidation Authority (LCA) was created in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources in 1972. As a result,
progress in halting and even reversing the trend to extreme fragmentation of
land in Cyprus has been significant. According to the Land Consolidation Law,
agreement of a simple majority of the owners of land within an area is suffi-
cient to initiate a consolidation program, but LCA undertakes no consolidation
activity unless 75% of the landowners vote to consolidate. Often agreement
for consolidation by 90% or more of the land holders is obtained. Requests
for assistance for consolidation often exceed Government's capability to keep
up. Rainfed as well as irrigated areas are being consolidated.
Water Resources
1.10      The initial economic growth of Cyprus after World War II depended
on the development of its groundwater resources. However, at this time there
are no new major aquifers to be developed, prospects of further development of
minor aquifers are limited, and there is little scope for artificial recharge.
Surface water is therefore becoming of predominant importance for agriculture
and domestic uses in both north and south Cyprus.
1.11      The major deep aquifers are the sandstone and the gypsum.  The sand-
stone is frequently calcareous and the water from both aquifers, though of
good bacteriological quality, is very hard and the sulphate content is too
high for some crops. The alluvial deposits are generally shallow and the
yields fall during the dry season when induced recharge from the rivers ceases.
Shallow groundwater resources around Nicosia yield very small supplies and
some of these are becoming polluted.
Irrigation Development
1.12      Cyprus, with an area of 9,251 km2, is in a low rainfall area and the
rainfall is inadequate for perennial and summer agriculture. About 85% of the
total rainfall occurs between November and March and, if uncontrolled by
storage reservoirs, runs off in flood flows and is wasted in the sea. Rivers
are small and scattered with the largest having a catchment area of about 710
km2. The total water supply in the island is about 960 MCM annually, of which
610 MCM run off in the form of surface water and 350 MCM are estimated to be



- 4 -
available from groundwater sources. At present, about 398 MCM of this annual
total is being regulated and used for irrigation (358 MCM) and domestic water
(40 MCM). Of the 424,000 ha of cultivated land in Cyprus, only 74,000 ha have
been classified as suitable for irrigation under potential project schemes.
Since 1946, 46,000 ha were brought under irrigation. The present surface
water storage capacity in Cyprus is about 65 MCM and the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos
Project will add to it 32 MCM.
1.13      The Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project can be considered an early phase
of an overall Master Plan called the Southern Conveyor Project. The basic
objective of this Master Plan is to collect surplus water (after allowing for
existing and potential future local uses) from all rivers in the wetter
mountainous part of south-west Cyprus and, after storage and regulation at
suitable reservoir sites, convey it to the drier areas along the southern
coast (para. 1.17). Ultimately, the conveyor system will recharge a large
aquifer south of Famagusta which supports agriculture on about 10,000 ha but
which is already overexploited. Its implementation would be carried out in
phases as several smaller projects over the next 10-20 years and when com-
pleted it would add substantially to the total water availability in the
island.
Domestic Water Supply Development
1.14      In the urban areas the demand for domestic water has, in recent
years, outgrown the available supply of local groundwater. In Nicosia water
is supplied from groundwater resources located in both the north and the
south. The local supplies were first augmented from the alluvial aquifer at
Morphou, some thirty miles to the west in north Cyprus. Therefore, northern
sources now meet nearly half the total supply available. A proposal in the
early 1970's to double this supply by artificial recharge with surface water
from Tylliria did not materialize resulting in an increasingly serious deficit
of water in Nicosia. The aquifer at Morphou is overpumped and the proposed
project will relieve the pressure for overextraction. The local groundwater
resources of the Famagusta/Larnaca area were supplemented in the 1970-75
period by (a) Vasilikos groundwater and by (b) surface water from the
Pendaskinos river provided by the construction of the Lefkara dam. These
sources are more than adequate to meet the near future demands. Many of the
local groundwater sources which have previously supplied the rural villages
are proving inadequate and are being supplemented or replaced by supplies from
the Famagusta/Larnaca pipeline.
C. Government Policy and Bank Lending Strategy
1.15      There is a recognized, indispensable need to develop irrigation to
increase and stabilize agricultural output. Despite improvements in irriga-
tion, however, it is unlikely that the agricultural sector's growth rate in
the south will be above 2% per annum until 1980-81, and 3% per annum there-
after (as new irrigation projects are completed), since the amount of water



-5-
and good quality land available is very limited (only about 17% of the cultiv-
able area can be irrigated). Thus, its share of GDP is expected to decline.
1.16      The Government intends to exploit systematically the reasonable
potential for economic development of the country's limited natural resource
base. With a low population growth rate (0.4% p.a.), the labor force is rela-
tively stable. Since the economy is expected to be operating at close to full
employment level, most of the growth in output will have to come from increas-
ing factor productivity. The policy to preserve agriculture as a basic source
of survival (to avoid shortages of foodstuffs) despite the higher productivity
of other sectors, is deliberate. Therefore, in the medium term, Cyprus' needs
in agriculture are to accelerate the modernization of its agriculture through
increasing productivity, extending irrigation, expanding the production of new
and existing crops, and providing a better marketing and transport system.
1.17      In the First Emergency Action Plan for 1975-76, the Government
of Cyprus provided expanded financial assistance on concessionary terms to
farmers in order to promote employment and production in the agriculture
sector. It also gave priority to the completion of ongoing projects, includ-
ing the development of marginal land by soil conservation and reclamation
measures, pasture improvement, use of improved seeds, planting of tree crops,
replanting of vines, and completing the distribution works for irrigation from
existing and new dams and tubewells. In the Second Emergency Economic Action
Plan for 1977-78, the Government of Cyprus adopted, in addition, the strategy
of promoting intensive cultivation of agricultural land with total expendi-
tures for the agriculture sector projected to increase to CL 20.1 million from
CL 16.4 million during the 1975-76 Plan. The strategy of intensifying land
cultivation, together with the completion of projects to expand the irrigated
area is a major government policy. The proposed project will play an important
role in supporting this objective and, in future years, the Southern Conveyor
Project investigations may well form the basis of a Master Plan for better
utilization of water supplies (para 1.13).
1.18      The Bank's main objectives in Cyprus are to finance projects
to meet urgent needs for productive employment, exports and rehabilitation;
to complete essential infrastructure useful in the context of the whole
country and sector's needs; to accelerate the recovery of the economy towards
the level prevailing before 1974; and to serve as a catalyst to attract
development assistance from other sources. The proposed loan meets these
objectives.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
2.01      The Vasilikos-Pendaskinos region is located in the southern part of
the island between Limassol and Larnaca (IBRD Map 13749R). It is bordered by
the Mediterranean sea on the south and the Troodos mountains on the northwest,



-6-
and is made up of the Pendaskinos river watershed with a 167 sq km catchment
area on the east, the Vasilikos river watershed with a 146 sq km catchment on
the west, and the Maroni river watershed with a 102 sq km catchment in between.
The project service area with 1,160 ha net irrigable is more or less confined
to the mouth and lower reach of the rivers and the coastal plain between the
Pendaskinos a..d Vasilikos rivers. The project area falls almost entirely
between the sea and the Nicosia-Limassol highway.
B. Climate
2.02      The project area has a Mediterranean type climate, with hot, dry
summers and mild winters. Average rainfall is about 597 mm annually, most of
which falls in the winter months. Due to its low elevation and near-the-sea
location little variation in climate or weather occurs within the project
area. The climate is suitable for the production of citrus, tables grapes,
and nearly all vegetables.
C. Topography, Soils and Geology
Topography
2.03      The area to be irrigated is on a coastal plain which rises gently
from the sea to about 80-90 meters in the northeastern part of the project
area three or four miles from the sea. Slopes are generally smooth ranging
from 1% to 3% in most instances.
Soils
2.04      The area is covered by a variety of soils, ranging from recent
alluvial to moderately or strongly developed soils, which, because of satis-
factory depth and favorable physical and chemical properties, are suitable
for all crops. They are also level to gently sloping and need little improv-
ing.
Geology
2.05      The geology of the surrounding area consists mostly of chalks, lime-
stones, and marls of the "Pakkna" formation (Middle Miocene) with gypsum depo-
sits of the same formation. Further north, chalks, marls, limestones, shales,
and chert of the "Lapithos" group (Lower Miocene) are massively occupying the
whole area. The area is dominated by alluvium which is interrupted in places
by marls and calcareous siltstones of the "Myrtou" and "Pissour" formations
(Pliocene).



-7-
D. Farm Size, Land Tenure and Demography
Farm Size and Tenure
2.06      Agricultural land within the project area is essentially all pri-
vately owned. Land ownership and use is characterized by small size of hold-
ings, fragmentation, and numerous ownerships and co-ownerships. The average
size of individual holdings is about 3.0 ha, which is small for a primarily
rainfed, cereals producing area, with low, variable rainfall. Approximately
77% of the individual holdings, representing about 42% of the area, are smaller
than the 3.0 ha. Fragmentation of holdings into three or more plots, often
widely separated, is common.  The number of plots per holding (currently rang-
ing from 1 to 16) increases generally as the size of the holding increases,
but the average for the project area is about 3.3 plots of about 0.9 ha each.
2.07      As ownership of land in the project area is severely fragmented, the
project provides for application of the Government's on-going land consolida-
tion program to about 1,055 ha of project land. This program will facilitate
construction of optimum water distribution systems and provide better access
to farm plots, including provision of farm roads as required. Tne area to be
irrigated includes a small amount of land owned by Turkish Cypriot villagers
who left the area following the 1974 hostilities. Such Turkish Cypriot owned
land will not be subject to consolidation, in accordance with Government policy
established prior to initiation of the land consolidation program in 1972. How-
ever, assurances were obtained from Government that persons owning agriculture
land in the project area who may have left after July 1974, may resume farming
of such lands whenever they may wish to do so, and any other person farming
these lands in the meantime, will do so only temporarily, with no transfer of
ownership taking place, except by succession from or agreement by the owners
concerned. In the event any of these absentee owners ultimately decide not to
return, the Government will make appropriate arrangements to safeguard their
ownership rights or disposal thereof. These arrangements are similar to those
made in the amendment to the Paphos Irrigation Project (Loan 960-CY).
Demography
2.08      Rural.  Twenty-six villages with a total population of about 9,750
persons are located within the watersheds of the three rivers which cross
the project area. Of the 26 villages, 11, with a population of about 5,000
persons, have at least a little land within the project area. In the seven
villages making up the major part of the project area, 400 families with about
1,600 total family members derive a portion of their income from agriculture
(para. 6.05). The population of the seven villages has declined from 6,693 in
1946 to 5,045 in 1960, and to about 3,415 in 1977, a 49% decline in 32 years
and a 32% decline in the last 18 years.
2.09      Urban.  Since 1974 rapid movements of population have occurred in
many parts of the country. The situation is still fluid with the prospect of
further major changes when a political settlement is achieved. Many displaced
persons are in settlements in relatively rural areas; some are in villages,
notably those near Famagusta, but most have gone to the larger towns of
Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and Paphos.



2.10      Historical data offer no firm guide to future population trends but
estimated current trends in Nicosia have been used to determine short-term
future needs for water. The population in the supply area of greater Nicosia
in the pre-1974 period sho7ed annual increases varying from 1.5% to 2.1%. The
present resident population is estimated to be 180,000 of whicn 40,000 to
50,000 are in the Turkish Cypriot sector. Commuters to the Greek Cypriot
sector total 30,000 so that the effective population is about 210,000.
2.11      The previous town planning projection of maximum probable popula-
tion for the year 2,000 was 265,000. The current WDD estimate, which now
includes the refugees, is 260,000 and is based on an average cumulative
increase from 1974 of 1.8%.
2.12      The movements of population in the Larnaca/Famagusta and surround-
ing rural area preclude any reasonable estimate of trend, but with the loss of
Greek Cypriots and tourists, the population of Famagusta has decreased appre-
ciably. On the basis of water consumption, the total population of the whole
area is estimated to be 100,000 of which 50,000 are in the Larnaca area,
15,000 in Famagusta and 35,000 in the refugee camps and villages within the
Larnaca water supply area.
E. Existing Infrastructure
2.13      The main Limassol-Nicosia highway, which is being improved under
Bank Loan 1344-CY, traverses the project area and provides good access to both
Nicosia and Limassol with its newly constructed port facilities (Bank Loan
628-CY). The villages within the project area are adequately covered by a
system of asphalt roads connecting all villages. In addition, earthroads
provide access to most of the agricultural sections of the area. Plans are
under consideration for construction of a coastal highway along the southern
boundary of the project. An earth road connects Zyyi and Ayios Theodhoros
along the coast. Larnaca International Airport, about 25 km away by surfaced
road, is capable of handling most types of aircraft and airfreight.
2.14      All villages in the project area are adequately served by the
national power grid. The main power station of Cyprus at Moni is only a few
kilometers to the west of the project area and a 66 KV primary transmission
line runs through the project area. Pumping of groundwater in the area is
done mostly by electric power and no problem is anticipated in supplying the
additional energy required by the project. All the villages are served by
telephone service either by direct dialing facilities or rural telephone
exchanges. Telegraph and postal services are also available.
2.15      All villages in the project area and the watersheds are adequately
supplied by piped water for domestic purposes, and house to house distribution
is available for all the major communities. The main source for domestic
supply is the Khirokitia treatment plant which treats both surface and
ground supplies, individual community tubewells for low lying villages and
springs for some of the mountain villages. The source of surface supplies is



- 9 -
the water impounded by the Lefkara dam (estimated at 5.2 MCM annually), north-
west of the project area. Future water needs arising from industrial and
tourism development growth can be adequately met by the Larnaca/Famagusta
system which will be reinforced by the additional water supply from the
proposed project (para. 3.20).
F. Agricultural Supporting Services
Agricultural Research
2.16      Cyprus has a well developed Agricultural Research Institute (ARI)
within MANR. The Institute has several experiment stations carrying out
experiments in most aspects of agriculture in the major agricultural zones of
the country. Results from the research programs at Akhelia near Paphos in the
southwest will contribute to the development of Vasilikos-Pendaskinos as the
two areas have strong ecological similarities and common problems (para. 4.07).
Agricultural Extension
2.17      The Department of Agriculture operates a well developed extension
service. Its activities are managed by the Director assisted by the section
heads at Nicosia, and coordinated within the Larnaca district by the District
Agricultural Officer who has a staff of twelve specialists under four general
extension agents or Beat Officers (para. 4.08). Additional staff will be
required to ensure the availability of four Beat Officers for the project
area and three subject matter specialists.
Credit
2.18      There is no village in Cyprus without at least one Cooperative
Credit or Savings Bank; 98% of the rural population belong to these coopera-
tives. These local cooperatives raise local funds for agricultural credit and
cen resort to the Cooperative Central Bank (CCB) for additional funds for
onlending to agriculture. The CCB pools surplus funds from local cooperatives
(which are "village banks"). Farmers' short-term and medium-term credit is
usually supplied through these sources (para. 4.09). Interest rates to
depositors can reach at present a maximum of 5-6%, while interest rates to
borowers vary usually between 7 to 8%. Repayments are satisfactory as the
relationship between depositors, borrowers and the cooperative administration
is very close. Total funds disbursed in south Cyprus through these channels
amounted to CL 23 million during 1976.
2.19      Medium- and long-term credit is largely provided from Government or
Government-guaranteed special programs for agriculture. Loans are extended to
farmers under the 1962 Credit Law or are issued to farmers through the Loan
Commissioners (LC), a Government committee operating through the Treasury. In
both cases, CCB acts as the agent of Government. All credit is supervised
either by the Agricultural Credit Department of CCB in the first case or by the



- 10 -
Department of Agriculture in the second. The interest rates charged to
farmers in both cases is 4.5% annually. The lending schemes applicable at
present in the project area cover all expected on-farm investments required
by the project. Each lending scheme has a top borrowing limit, sometimes
insufficient, but farmers can borrow from several of the lending schemes
for a single mixed enterprise. Total lending issued from the LC amounted to
CL 4 million in 1976. The per capita debt in the villages of Vasilikos-
Pendaskinos ranges from CG 44 to GL 129. The credit machinery available to
farmers has worked satisfactorily. Commercial credit is available at a
current interest rate of 9%, mostly for short-term credit.
2.20      The annual rate of inflation has been 3.4%, 7.5% and 8.3% for the
years 1976, 1977 and 1978, respectively (or an annual average of 6.4%). The
rates for the triennium 1979-1981 are expected to decline gradually to 8%,
7% and 6%. The Government has retained the 4.5% rate on the grounds that the
long-term infrastructure improvements (land consolidation, soil conservation,
etc.) provide benefits beyond the immediate users which are difficult to
quantify; moreover, there are no alternative sources of credit for these
purposes from the commercial banking system and therefore no similar baskets
for comparison of lending systems. As there are also occasional low borrow-
ing limits under some of these credit schemes (especially for the establish-
ment of greenhouses), farmers' commitments of their own resources to on-farm
investments are often relatively large. The low borrowing limits and the
low interest rates applicable to long-term credit are under review through a
Bank-financed study (Loan 1483-CY) which is expected to be completed by early
1979, with the recommendations to be implemented by July 1, 1980. It is
recommended, therefore, that the existing arrangements continue to apply
for the project area until the new recommendations are applied nationwide in
1980.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The project will develop scarce water resources in Cyprus to (i)
supply irrigation schemes in south Cyprus necessary to promote development in
the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos area, and (ii) supply additional water to meet the
needs of consumers in all parts of the Nicosia, Larnaca, and Famagusta areas.
Specifically, the project components include the following:
(a) Kalavasos multipurpose dam on the Vasilikos River with a
capacity of 17 MCM;
(b) Dhypotamos multipurpose dam on the Pendaskinos River with
a capacity of 15 MCM;
(c) Maroni diversion works to divert water from Maroni River
to the Dhypotamos dam;



- 11 -
(d)  Vasilikos Main canal (10 km) and Tokhni night storage
reservoir to deliver irrigation water from the Kalavasos
dam to 830 ha net of land in the Vasilikos area;
(e)  Pendaskinos Main pipeline (19 km) to deliver irrigation
water from the Dhypotamos dam to 225 ha net of land in
the Pendaskinos valley;
(f) two tubewells in the Gypsum groundwater aquifer to develop
irrigation water for 105 ha net of land;
(g) irrigation water distribution systems for the project lands
in the Vasilikos, Pendaskinos, and Gypsum groundwater areas;
(h) land consolidation and farm roads for about 1,055 ha of land;
(i) an operation and maintenance headquarters building, agricul-
tural research sub-station, and vehicles and equipment for
project construction, operation and maintenance; and
(j) provision of bulk supply outlets at the Kalavasos and
Dhypotamos dams to supply water for potable uses in the
Nicosia, Larnaca, and Famagusta areas.
3.02      The multipurpose dams and other facilities will be designed to pro-
vide an additional annual water supply of 7.2 MCM for potable use and 9.6
MCM for irrigation of 1,160 ha.
B. Detailed Features
Kalavasos Dam
3.03      The dam will be an earth and rockfill structure 57 m high and form
a reservoir with an initial capacity of 17 MCM. It will have an impervious
core flanked by rockfill shoulders with side slopes of 1.6:1. The spillway
will safely bypass 622 m3/s which exceeds a 1,000 year design flood which is
considered suitable for dams of this size and classification. The diversion
tunnel through the left abutment will later house the outlet pipelines.
There will be a separate bottom outlet for irrigation water and another with
multi-level intakes for the domestic water pipeline. Geology at both damsites
has been thoroughly investigated and the intended dam design has been found
suitable for the prevailing seismic conditions (paras. 3.13, 7.12).
Dhypotamos Dam
3.04      The dam will be 49 m high, with the same type of design as Kalavasos
dam, and provide an initial storage capacity of 15 MCM. It could safely
bypass a flood of 600 m3/s which is greater than a 1,000 year design flood.



- 12 -
There will be a dual outlet works utilizing the diversion tunnel through the
left abutment as in the Kalavasos dam. Along with other aspects of the dams,
the flood design and routing studies for the Kalavasos and Dhypotamos dams
will be reevaluated during the final design stage, and the spillways designed
accordingly.
Maroni Diversion
3.05      A diversion system will be constructed to convey excess flows of
Maroni River to the Dhypotamos reservoir. It will consist of an overflow
crested diversion dam 26 m long across the Maroni River, with a diversion
capacity of 1.0 m3/s. The conveyance canal will be about 10.3 km long includ-
ing a 550 m long tunnel, several syphons, and a drop structure into the
reservoir.
Vasilikos Main Canal and Nightstorage
3.06      A canal will be constructed about 10 km long from the Kalavasos
Dam to a site above the Vasilikos land area where it will terminate in a
small (0.02 MCM) regulating reservoir. The reservoir will store canal flows
not used by irrigators for a short period during the night and releases will
help meet peak daytime demands. The canal will have a capacity of 650 l/s
and be constructed of reinforced concrete in a rectangular shape.
Pendaskinos Main Pipeline
3.07      The 19 km long Pendaskinos pipeline will be constructed along the
river valley and serve lands through direct turnouts along its route. It
will have an initial capacity of about 280 l/s. A section of the pipeline,
3.2 km in length, from the proposed domestic water pumping plant site below
the Dhypotamos Dam down to its intersection with the existing domestic water
line from the Khirokitia Treatment Plant to the Larnaca-Famagusta area, is being
constructed by Government prior to the Project to deliver part of the excess
water in that system to the new line being built from the pumping plant to
Nicosia. This will provide a temporary supplemental water supply to Nicosia
until the dam is completed. When the Dhypotamos Dam is completed, and its
multiple purpose water supply becomes available, that section of the line will
be reconverted to irrigation use.
Groundwater Development
3.08      Two tubewells will be developed to extract groundwater from the
Gypsum Aquifer for irrigation of about 105 ha of land at Mari and in another
nearby area. Small balancing ponds will be utilized at each of the tubewells
ahead of the distribution pipelines to balance the pump discharge against the
irrigation demand.
Irrigation Distribution Systems
3.09      Pipe distribution systems will be constructed up to the farm level.
The Vasilikos system will distribute water to about 830 ha net of land on the



- 13 -
basis of one outlet from a twin hydrant for each 2.5 ha unit. A permanent
pipe will be constructed from the outlet of the hydrant to each individual
plot in the unit. In the narrow Pendaskinos valley area, about 225 ha net (75
ha new and 150 ha supplemental) will be served directly from turnouts from the
Pendaskinos pipeline. A new distribution scheme and a 50 m3 capacity pond
will be developed to serve the 48 ha Mari groundwater service area. The
existing distribution system and pond is adequate to distribute supplemental
water from the new borehole to another 57 ha of project land.
Domestic Water Supply
3.10      The project will provide an additional domestic water supply of (i)
2.0 MCM annually from Kalavasos Reservoir to supplement the existing supply
from Lefkara Reservoir and groundwater sources treated at the Khirokitia plant
and conveyed through the Larnaca-Famagusta pipeline, and (ii) 5.2 MCM from
Dypotamos Reservoir for Nicosia through through the Government financed Kornos
treatment plant and pipeline to the greater Nicosia area. The existing pipe-
line from Lefkara Reservoir to the Khirokitia treatment plant will be relo-
cated around the Dypotamos Reservoir site as indicated on IBRD Map 13750R.
Pumping plants will be constructed below the Dypotamos dam and at Kornos to
lift the water to an elevation adequate to serve the Nicosia area, and a
pumping plant and pipeline will be constructed from the Kalavasos dam to the
existing Khirokitia treatment plant. Interconnection of the pipe systems and
sources of supply will assure adequate service and improved system reliability
to the Nicosia, Larnaca, and Famagusta areas. The additional works necessary
for supplying the domestic consumers are excluded from the proposed project
and will be implemented on a separate basis by the Government in two phases:
Phase I Works, already being carried out, is to meet the urgent needs of
Nicosia by transferring currently excess treated water from the existing
Larnaca/Famagusta pipeline to Greater Nicosia, and consists of pipelines,
storage tanks and pumping station; and Phase II Works, to be constructed
contemporaneously with the project works, provides for (a) the new treatment
plant (Kornos) and pumping station for the supply of water from either the
Lefkara or the Dhypotamos reservoirs through the Phase I pipeline to Nicosia,
and (b) the pumping station and pipeline to convey the domestic water from
the Kalavasos reservoir to the Khirokitia treatment plant for supplementing
the supply to the Larnaca/Famagusta area (para. 3.20). Assurances were
obtained on the proper and timely construction of the domestic water supply
works (including the Kornos treatment plant) by December 31, 1982, so as to
augment permanently the supply to Nicosia and cease the temporary utilization
of water from the Larnaca/Famagusta area. The additional water supplied by
the project will therefore be available to both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish
Cypriot communities. The Government has also confirmed that it is its policy
to supply water equitably to the Turkish Cypriots to the extent technically
possible and bearing in mind the needs of the population as a whole.
Land Consolidation
3.11      Lands in part of the project area are badly fragmented with diffi-
cult to reach plots. To correct this situation, land consolidation will be



- 14 -
carried out on about 1,055 ha of land to facilitate construction of the
optimum irrigation distribution system and provide better access to plots.
The consolidation program, which is part of Government's ongoing land conso-
lidation efforts (para. 2.07), will, as far as possible, form rectangular
shaped units (about 250 m x 100 m) which may be further subdivided into
smaller plots lepending upon ownership conditions. The program will pro-
vide farm roads within the network to assure access to each plot, enabling
improved systems for irrigation such as sprinkler, trickle and pipe basin
to be installed for a more economical use of water and increased crop pro-
duction. The process of land consolidation will begin on or before May 31,
1979, and at least two full field crews will be assigned to the area to enable
land consolidation to precede the installation of irrigation distribution net-
works and on-farm irrigation systems. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations. With guidance from project staff and the Agriculture
Department, the farmers would purchase and install, either through self-labor
or contract, the necessary on-farm irrigation and production facilities.
Buildings and Equipment
3.12       Project development includes construction of a project headquarters
building and workshops near Khirokitia to be used initially as a construction
office and later as an O&M headquarters. An agriculture research substation
will also be developed in the project area. The project includes purchase of
vehicles and equipment needed for project construction and operation and
maintenance. The required equipment is listed in Annex 1, Table 13.
C. Status of Design and Engineering
3.13       Plans for development of the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (irriga-
tion and domestic water supply) were initiated in 1960 (para. 1.04). The plans
were refined during the 1960s and the feasibility study for the proposed proj-
ect was undertaken in 1975. Since that time thorough detailed investigations
and extensive plan formulation studies were performed, as summarized in the
1977 feasibility report, including alternative plans and structure site
suitability and locations, and physical and economic optimizing of size and
type of design. Extensive geological investigations have been completed for
the features. The dam site investigations and designs have been reviewed by
a US Bureau of Reclamation technical specialist engaged by the Bank, and were
found to be adequate and appropriate for feasibility purposes (paras. 3.03,
7.12). The investigations and designs on the remaining project features have
been done in similar satisfactory detail and will provide the necessary
background needed for preparation of final construction designs and tender
documents. Adequate high quality studies have been made on availability
of water resources and optimum sizing of the dams and conveyance facilities.
3.14       The detailed feasibility designs and estimates for the domestic
water system have been prepared in the manner described above (para. 3.13).



- 15 -
Consulting engineers have been appointed and are already engaged in preparing
detailed design for Phase I works for domestic water (para. 3.10) with the
aim of having the works constructed and making supply available in Nicosia
by about the summer of 1980. This scheme has already been approved by the
Council of Ministers.
Consultants
3.15      Although WDD staff includes highly qualified technical design and
construction personnel, because of the limited size and facilities of their
organization and the requirement for highly complex designs and international
tendering for the major facilities, WDD will require the assistance of well
qualified consulting firms to assist in the preparation of final designs and
supervision of construction (para. 4.05). The cost of consultants is esti-
mated at an average of US$5,000 per man month including salary, travel and
miscellaneous expenses (Annex 1, Table 2).
Safety of Dams
3.16      A Panel of Experts will be designated by WDD to evaluate the
designs, construction activities, and maintenance program for the dams and
make periodic inspection of the dams during and after construction to assure
the proper maintenance and safe functioning of the structure. An assurance
was obtained that WDD will prepare a suitable maintenance and inspection
program for this purpose and appoint a Panel of Experts by December 31, 1979
to inspect periodically the dams during construction, annually for the first
five years following completion of construction, and once every five years
thereafter beginning not later than December 31, 1983.
D. Water Demand, Supply and Quality
Irrigation Water
3.17      The consumptive use of the main crops proposed for the project
area was estimated by the Blaney-Criddle method, using data from the Larnaca
meteorological station. The consumptive use and net irrigation requirement
were estimated for each year separately and mean values on monthly and yearly
basis were also computed. The average net yearly irrigation requirement
was estimated at 0.6 MCM for the Gypsum aquifer scheme; 4.82 MCM for the
Vasilikos irrigation scheme; and 1.44 MCM for the Pendaskinos minor irrigation
scheme. The total average net yearly irrigation requirement for the project
area under the currently proposed cropping patterns is about 6.86 MCM, which
after evaporation and other efficiency losses amount to a gross requirement of
about 9.65 MCM annually at the head of the main canal and pipelines (Annex 1,
Tables 14 and 15).



- 16 -
3.18      Most of the annual supply for irrigation (8.3 MCM), and all the
6omestic water (7-2 MCM), will be supplied from Kalavasos and Dhypotamos dams
thrcugh gegulation of the fl-os of Vasilikos, Maroni, Pendaskinos, and Mylou
rivers. The remaining irrigation demand (1.35 MCM) will be supplied from ground-
water sourceso Of the annual irrigation water supplied by the reservoirs (7.9
MCM considering an overall security of supply averaging 96%), abeit 83% (6.6
MCM) will come from the Kalavasos Dam and the remaining 17% (1.3 MCM) from the
Dhypotamos Dam0 The groundwater supplies (1.35 MCM) would be provided without
shortage by 0.85 MCM per annum coming from the project tubewells in the Gypsum
aquifer and 0.5 MCM per annum from wells along the Pendaskinos River below the
Dhypotamos dam.
Nics$na ;'cseoSt Water
3019      The current supply of water to Nicosia is limited to 9 MCM annually,
of which about 50% comes from the Morphou aquifer.  This current supply is
the maximum available from existing resources. The estimated unrestricted
demand in 1978, including water unaccounted for, is about 12 MCM per annum.
The resources will be increased to that level by 1980 through the emergency
Phase i Works (paras. 3.10, 3.14) together with development of 1.0 MCM per
annum groundwater sources (Chart 19174). By 1983, the project works will be
sufficiently complete to enable water to be supplied from the Lefkara reser-
voir. The total available resources will then be 15.2 MCM per annum, with
the demand, including water unaccounted for, expected to have increased to
14.4 MCM per annum (para. 4.11).
Larnaca/Famagusta Domestic Water
3.20      Records of domestic water consumption in the Larnaca/Famagusta and
surrounding rural areas show an annual volume of 2.5 MOM in 1975 increasing by
1977 to 3.25 MCM and apparently still increasing rapidly, although there is at
present a surplus of supply of nearly 3.0 MCM. The trend of future demand in
this area (shown in Chart 19173), is full of uncertainties and a wide trend
range is suggested, which indicates that the current supply may suffice until
between 1982-1988. In the event that a political settlement is reached, the
project will provide for the likely increased demand in the Larnaca/Famagusta
area and surrounding rural villages (para. 2.15).
Water Quality for Irrigation
3.21      Surface Water.  On the basis of available analyses on samples from
streams discharging into the two dams, surface water is rated medium in sali-
nity and low in sodium hazard, suitable for irrigating a wide range of crops.
3.22      Groundwater0  While water in the riverbed aquifers is similar in
quality to that in the surface waters from which they are recharged, water
from the gypsum aquifer is less desirable for irrigation due to dissolved
salts, calcium and magnesium sulphates being the main salts in solution, and
is relatively high in salinity (EC is about 2.8 mmhos./cm). The water is
suitable for irrigation but aquifer development will need to be carefully



- 17 -
controlled, and drawdown and salinity monitored as sea water intrusion could
result from overpumping over prolonged periods.
Water Quality for Potable Use
3.23      The color, clarity and bacteriological standards of the untreated
water from Lefkara reservoir are normally high except during seasonal periods
of minor algae infestation. Quality of the water from the Dhypotamos and
Kalavasos reservoirs is expected to be similar. Effective treatment would be
very simple at most times and, even when algae are present, treatment should
not be difficult. The chemical quality of the surface water is suitable,
being much lower in hardness, for admixture with the existing groundwater
supply of Nicosia.
Drainage
3.24      There are no drainage problems existing in the project area and none
are anticipated with project development. The slope of the land areas and
porosity of the soils, along with the proposed irrigation water application
methods and natural husbanding of the scarce water resources available to the
farmers, indicate there is little possibility of drainage problems developing.
E. Water Rights and Laws
Irrigation
3.25      According to existing laws, all unused surface water and all ground-
water, except for wells registered before 1928, is vested in the Government.
Present users of seasonal surface waters within the project area (i.e., along
the Pendaskinos River) will, after the project, receive assured perennial
supplies, which would more than compensate them for the loss of the small
seasonal flows they now depend upon. Utilization of water through projects
built by the Government does not entitle the users to private water rights--
only use permits. Such use permits are also continuously being granted for
private groundwater development, but these rights cannot be sold or trans-
ferred and regulations are imposed on them regarding extraction and utilization.
Domestic Water
3.26      The Water Supply (municipal and other areas) and the Water (domestic
purposes) Village Supplies legislation provides for the establishment of Water
Boards or Village Water Commissions as appropriate. Under the Water Develop-
ment and Distribution Law an area may be declared a "Development Area" for the
better conservation of water by a Water Development Committee. In such an
area, the water rights, whether owned privately or by Statutory Water Authori-
ties, are transferred to the Committee. The Wells Law prohibits the construc-
tion or alteration of wells except by permit which is given by the District
Officer, or, where "Water Conservation Areas" have been established, by the
Council of Ministers. Abstraction of groundwater is governed by licenses



- 18 -
issued through District Officers. The Special Measures Law empowers the
Director of WDD or the District Officer, in areas where there is a serious
water deficiency, to maintain available supplies by measures such as prohibit-
ing waste or imposing conditions on abstraction permits to limit the quanti-
ties abstracted, the extent of land irrigated, the types of crops or the
system of irrigation. Although there may be no legal requirement, the govern-
ment policy is to compensate, with water if possible, all users whose supplies
are affected by the construction of new water supply and irrigation projects.
Land and Easements
3.27      Land and easements are normally purchased by agreement but, where
this proves impossible, WDD may arrange for compulsory purchase through the
Department of Land Surveys and may begin work on the land without waiting for
the value and terms of the purchase to be settled. There are no riparian
rights in the project area.
F. Implementation Schedule
3.28      The proposed project will be implemented over a six-year period
from July 1979 through June 1985 (Charts 19175 and 19176). Irrigation water
from the Gypsum aquifer will be available in mid-1980 on 105 ha, and from
the dams in early 1983, with all 1,160 ha being irrigated by 1984.
G. Cost Estimates
3.29      Cost estimates are based on detailed quantities and unit rates
obtained from recent contracts for similar work in Cyprus and indexed to late
1978 price levels. Total costs are estimated at Cb 11.6 million (US$30.1
million) including physical contingencies and price increases, and excluding
interest during construction. The foreign exchange component amounts to
Cb 6.3 million (US$16.3 million) or 54% of total costs. Government policy
provides that all purchases, from both local and foreign sources, for a
government-developed project be free of taxes and duties. As a result of
investigations of past and anticipated inflation and price trends in Cyprus,
price increases on the local components of civil works and indirect local
components of equipment were compounded at annual rates of 9% (1979), 8%
(1980-1981) and 7% (1982-1984). For the foreign components on equipment and
supplies, rates of 6.5% (1979) and 6% (1980-1984) were used. Cost estimates
are summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 1, Table 2. An estimated
schedule of expenditures and phasing is in Annex 1, Table 3.



19 -
Total Project Costs
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
----CT mil'ion /1 -  -US$ million /1----             %
Kalavasos Dam              1.5      1.7     3.2    3.8      4.5      8.3       54
Dhypotamos Dam             1.1      1.2     2.3    2.8      3.2      6.0       54
Maroni Diversion           0.2      0.3     0.5    0.6      0.6      1.2       50
Vasilikos Irrigation
Facilities              0.4      0.6      1.0    1.0      1.5      2.5      62
Pendaskinos Irrigation
Facilities              0.1      0.2      0.3    0.2      0.5      0.7      69
Groundwater Irrigation
Facilities               -       0.1      0.1     -       0.2      0.2      79
Land Consolidation         0.1     0.1      0.2    0.2      0.2      0.4       41
Buildings, Research
Station                 0.1       -       0.1    0.1       -       0.1      19
Equipment and
Vehicles                  -      0.1      0.1     -       0.3      0.3      80
Administratlon,
Engineering and
Supervision             0.4      0.4      0.8    1.1      1.1      2.2      50
Subtotal               3.8      4.6      8.4    9.9    12.1    22.0        55
Physical
Contingencies /2        0.5      0.6      1.1    1.2      1.8     3.0        -
Price Increases            1.0     1.0      2.0    2.7      2.5      5.2       -
Total Project Cost    5.3       6o3    11.6   13.8    16.3    30.1         54
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.
/2   15% on dams and 12% on canals and distribution systems.
H.  Financing
3.30      The proposed Bank Loan of US$11 million will finance 67% of the
foreign exchange costs estimated at US$16.3 million.  The remaining 33% of the
foreign exchange costs, estimated at about US$5.3 million, are expected to be
financed through cofinancing, possibly with the assistance of the Kuwait Fund,
which is presently activeLy considering the project.  Should Kuwait Fund
financing not materialize, or the Fund be unable to cover the full foreign
exchange gap, and other co-financing cannot be arranged by the Government, the
Government has confirmed that it wiill cover the remaining foreign exchange
needs of the project as may be necessary.  Government will contribute 100% of
the local costs (US$13.8 million equivalent).  The financing plan of the



- 20 -
foreign exchange requirements for the construction period could be as follows,
but would be adapted to the wishes of the cofinancier:
Other
External
Financing or
Component                                Bank       Government
-----US$ million-----
Dhypotamos Dam                             -            4.5
Maroni Diversion                           -             0.8
Kalavasos Dam                             6.2             -
Irrigation Systems                       3.1             -
Engineering                               1.7             -
11.0            5.3
3.31      The Bank Loan of US$11 million will be made to the Republic of
Cyprus. The loan will be for 15 years, including a three-year grace period,
at the Bank lending rate prevailing at the time of Board approval.
I. Procurement
3.32      Civil works contracts for the construction of Kalavasos Dam (US$11.8
million) and Vasilikos Main Canal and Distribution System (US$3.5 million)
will be awarded after tendering through ICB. These civil works contracts
to be awarded through ICB total about US$15.3 million (including price and
physical contingencies) of which about US$8.4 million is foreign exchange.
The project O&M headquarters building and shops, and the research substation
building, will be tendered for local bidding, following procedures acceptable
to the Bank, because their low cost (US$180,000) would not be attractive to
foreign bidders (para. 3.35).
3.33      Installation of the main Pendaskinos pipeline (US$300,000) would
lend itself best to Government force-account construction because of its low
cost, discontinuity, and irregular alignment through privately owned areas.
Government has carried out force account procedures satisfactorily in the
past. Development of the two small groundwater tubewells and distribution
system (US$70,000 for civil works) could best be accomplished through force-
account methods by WDD and the Geological Survey Department. Land consolida-
tion costing about US$450,000 will also be done by force-account methods by
the Land Consolidation Authority as is the normal practice in the country.
3.34      The equipment for the two tubewells (US$190,000) and the pipes and
fittings for the Pendaskinos system (US$447,000) installed under force-account
procedures, and small miscellaneous items of equipment for project and O&M
activities costing about US$100,000, will be procured through local shopping
(LS) with no individual contract exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, to avoid
delays in implementation in view of the relatively small amounts involved,
the availability of sufficient local suppliers to ensure price competitiveness,



- 21 -
and the variety of equipment required. Major equipment and vehicles for
project use (US$310,000) which are only available from foreign sources will
be procured through ICB.
3.35      WDD will follow these procurement procedures for Bank financed com-
ponents in accordance with the current Guidelines and Procedures under World
Bank Loans. For the possible items to be financed by other external sources
or by Government, with total costs of US$8.5 million for the Dhypotamos Dam
and US$1.7 million for the Maroni Diversion, procurement will be in accordance
with their respective procurement procedures. Specifications and bidding
documents for items procured under ICB and for local contracts exceeding
US$250,000 will be approved by the Bank before tendering and award. The
procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Co-financing   ICB      LCB     FA      LS     Total      F.E.
------------------------US$ Million------------------------
Civil Works       10.2      15.3      0.2    0.8     -        26.5      14.4
Equipment           -        0.3       -      -     0.8        1.1      0.9
Total         10.2       15.6     0.2    0.8    0.8        27.6     15.3
Total force account procurement procedures will not exceed US$0.8 million.
J. Disbursements
3.36      The proposed Bank Loan of US$11 million will be disbursed over a
six-year period as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures on imported vehicles and
equipment (US$0.3 million);
(b)  85% of local expenditures for goods and equipment if
purchased in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank (US$0.6 million);
(c)  100% of total expenditures on consultant services (US$0.8
million); and
(d) (i) 35% of total expenditures for civil works contracts
awarded under ICB or LCB (US$9.1 million); (ii) 35%
of total expenditures up to US$0.2 million for civil
works performed under force account.
3.37      Disbursement requests will be supported by standard documentation,
except for civil works performed under Force Account which will be made
against a statement of expenditures duly certified by the Auditor General, the
supporting documents of which will be retained by WDD and be available for
review by project supervision missions. WDD has the institutional capability



- 22 -
to undertake procurement using certificate of expenditure procedure. Any
savings in the loan after project completion will be cancelled. Assuming
effectiveness of the proposed project is June 30, 1979, the estimated annual
disbursement of the Bank Loan would be as follows:
Estimated Disbursement /1
Bank FY
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
------------------US$ million---------------
Annual         0.7     2.6      3.2     3.7      0.6     0.2
Cumulative    0.7      3.3     6.5    10.2    10.8    11.0
/    A quarterly schedule is shown in Annex 1, Table 4.
K. Environmental Impact
3.38      The project area is free of endemic diseases and the project is not
expected to adversely affect the environmental conditions. Although the
canals and balancing reservoirs (which empty during the day and fill up during
the night) would not be conducive to mosquito breeding, the creation of the
storage reservoirs and the expansion of irrigation could increase the mosquito
population. The Health Department of Cyprus is adequately equipped to take
the necessary preventative measures against a malaria outbreak, and assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Health Department will monitor the
project area for any outbreak of malaria and promptly take necessary remedial
measures.
3.39      Health problems are bound to become increasingly serious with extended
restrictions in water consumption in Nicosia caused by short supplies. The
project will be of great benefit in this respect though the provision of unre-
stricted supplies will add to the problems of sewage disposal by septic tanks
in the high density area. Nevertheless, as arrangements to complete and oper-
ate the Nicosia Sewerage Project (financed under Loan 729-CY) were finalized
in September 1978 between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot sides, the system is
expected to be operative by the time the additional water supply is obtained.
L. Role of Women
3.40      In Cyprus, the family farm is a basic element of the agriculture
structure. The average family holding consisting of several small and often
widely dispersed plots is small and requires a disproportionate amount of
time and effort to operate. Income from farming, especially under rainfed
conditions and in the mountain areas, is inadequate and one or more family
member usually works off the farm. In her traditional role the woman of



- 23 -
rural Cyprus works in the fields and orchards together with husband and
children or alone in one of the widely dispersed plots. The man often com-
mutes to a job in the city to supplement the inadequate income from the farm.
In these cases the woman, in addition to working alone on the farm, will often
make important decisions and judgments affecting farm operations. In other
cases, the woman commutes to a job in the city returning to help with farm
chores and operations during evenings and holidays. Where farming is the main
family occupation, almost all women are full working partners with men in all
farm and home operations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The project will be largely implemented by the Water Development
Department (WDD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. On-
farm works will be designed and their construction supervised by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture (DA). This department would also provide the extension
services. Other Government departments involved in the project will be the
Geological Survey Department (exploration and groundwater development), Land
Consolidation Authority (land consolidation and farm roads), Finance Depart-
ment (budgeting), the Planning Bureau, and ARI which will be responsible for
the agricultural research.
Coordination and Advisory Committees
4.02      In order to coordinate the activities of the concerned depart-
ments at the highest executive level, and to lay down policies that would
ensure timely completion of the project, a high level Project Policy and
Coordination Committee (PPCC) will be set up under the chairmanship of the
Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources. Other members of the commit-
tee will be the Directors General of the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural
Resources, Interior, and Commerce and Industry, the Planning Bureau, the Com-
missioner of Cooperatives, and the Director of WDD who will act as Secretary.
PPCC will lay down policies to be followed by the implementing agencies
regarding land acquisition, supporting services, cost recovery, credit needs,
staff requirements and work program, and it will meet as and when necessary
but not less than once a year. The focal point for project-related activities
is the Project Advisory Committee (PAC), which will advise the Project Manager
on local affairs and developments affecting the project. It will be chaired
by the District Officer, Larnaca, and will include the District Officers of
WDD and DA, Project Manager, Land Consolidation Officer, Water Board Managers
and two farmers' representatives. PAC will be the forum to obtain the views
of farmers, through their representatives, on matters such as O&M of completed
works, project charges and their recovery, and will explain project objectives
to the farmers.



- 24 -
4.03      The proposed organization, including the necessary committees and
their functions, is illustrated in Chart 19172, and is similar to that fol-
lowed in Loan 960-CY, which has proved to be effective. Assurances were
obtained that on or before May 31, 1979 the PPCC and PAC will be created
with the membership indicated in para. 4.02.
Project Works
4.04      The planning, design, and construction of dams, canals, pipelines,
water distribution networks, and buildings will be the responsibility of
the Director of WDD. Within WDD, the project activities will be supervised
by a Project Manager who will report directly to the Director.   The Project
Manager will be assisted by two deputies--an engineer for the technical and
civil works features and an Agricultural Officer for the agricultural aspects
of the project. The appointments of the Project Manager and his two deputies
are a condition of loan effectiveness. Groundwater development will be
carried out by WDD with assistance from the Geological Survey Department.
Land consolidation will be the responsibility of the Land Consolidation
Authority.
4.05      WDD will engage consultants experienced in the design of dams and
pressurized irrigation systems, to carry out investigations required for
design and construction of the dams, to prepare specifications and tender
documents for the construction and supply contracts, and to supervise the
execution of these contracts (para. 3.15). Draft terms of reference for
the firm or firms were agreed upon during negotiations and Government will
invite proposals forthwith with the view to appointing the firm(s) as soon
as possible after the date of Loan Agreement and not later than July 31,
1979. Assurances were obtained to that effect and that the consulting
firm(s) will have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
On-Farm Development
4.06      The on-farm irrigation systems for each farm will be designed by DA
who will also supervise the farmers' construction of the systems. The farmers
will also do land preparation, build greenhouses, plastic tunnels, trellises
and other structures under the guidance of DA.
Agricultural Research
4.07      The Agricultural Research Institute will be responsible for carrying
out the necessary research for the area and the construction and operation
of a small research substation with a full metereological station in the
project area. Establishment, equipment and maintenance costs of the small
research substation will be partially financed under the project. Planning,
direction, and supervision of research will be the responsibility of research
officers of ARI in close cooperation with extension specialists and interested
farmers (para. 2.16). Assurances to this effect were obtained from Government.



- 25 -
Agricultural Extension
4.08      The successful implementation of the project will require the rapid
introduction of new production technology. The agricultural extension service
of DA will play a significant role in assisting farmers to adopt and effi-
ciently use new technology, both during and after the project construction
period. To strengthen the extension capabilities in the District and provide
adequate service in the project area, seven extension officers will be required
in addition to the twenty currently serving the Larnaca District. Four
Beat Officers and three extension specialists will be required on full time
basis for the project area (para. 2.17). Assurances were obtained from
Government that at least one Beat Officer will be appointed by December 31,
1979, and the six remaining officers by December 31, 1981.
Credit
4.09      Short and medium-term credit will continue to be provided to the
project farmers by the village cooperative credit societies. While these
societies now have unutilized funds, lending during project development will
increase and the societies would have to borrow additional funds from the CCB
(paras. 2.18 and 2.20). The total requirements are estimated at Ch 1.5 mil-
lion over a seven year period (equivalent to US$3.9 million). Accordingly,
during negotiations assurances were obtained that CCB and DA will meet the
needs for short and medium-term credit, respectively, in the project area
from their own resources and the Loan Commissioners.
Domestic Water Supply
4.10      The distribution of potable water in the Nicosia area is the respon-
sibility of three authorities: (a) WDD for the outer suburbs; (b) Nicosia
Water Commission (NWC) for the old city within the walls; and (c) Nicosia Water
Board (NWB) for the inner suburbs. In addition to its own distribution area
(accounting for about 44% of total Greater Nicosia supplies), WDD provides in
bulk about half the water distributed by NWC and NWB. The other half distri-
buted by NWC and NWB comes from their own sources. Consumers in Larnaca and
Famagusta are served by separate Water Supply Boards (LWSB and FWSB).
4.11      The existing authorities (including WDD for Greater Nicosia) respon-
sible for the supply and distribution of potable water to the consumer will
receive water from the project works. WDD will treat, pump and convey the
water to Nicosia by constructing and operating works which are excluded from
the project (para. 3.10). Utilization of the additional water provided
under the project is assured by the current deficit (para. 3.19).
B. Operation and Maintenance
4.12      Under provisions of the Government Water Works Law, the project
works will be operated and maintained by WDD at Government expense



- 26 -
(para. 3.25). The operation and maintenance costs, however, would be reco-
vered, along with a portion of the initial capital costs (para. 6.10). The
farm roads constructed under the land consolidation program by the Land
Consolidation Authority, will be maintained by the District Officer e^ho
collects, under the provisions of the Land Consolidation Law, 50% of invest-
ment and maintenance costs from the farmers, the remaining 50% being borne by
Government.
4.13      A project O&M headquarters office building and workshops will be
constructed at a central project location near the existing Khirokitia treat-
ment plant during the first year of project construction. It will be used
initially as a headquarters office for the project construction staff (para.
3.12) and turned over to the project O&M staff upon completion of construc-
tion.
4.14      In addition to the regular WDD staff, a separate section under WDD
will become responsible for operation and maintenance of all project works
under the supervision of the Director of WDD. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that on or before June 30, 1985, a separate section will
be created under WDD to operate and maintain the project works as a unit and
that the section will be given executive administrative and legal powers to
perform its functions.
4.15      WDD maintains the Khirokitia pumping and treatment plant and the
supply main to Larnaca-Famagusta. Costs for this service are recovered
through the sale of water in bulk to the supply authorities. The additional
supply of domestic water for Nicosia will be operated similarly.
C. Accounting and Auditing
4.16      Separate accounts will be kept for the project by WDD and other
agencies. Presently, accounts of these agencies are audited annually by
the office of the Auditor General. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that: (a) separate accounts will be kept for the project by all
agencies involved, with an overall separate account for the project to be
established by June 30, 1979; (b) the project accounts, audited annually by
the Auditor General, will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months
after the closing date of the Cypriot fiscal year; and (c) such audit reports
will expressly include an opinion on the use of funds disbursed for works
executed by departmental forces (para. 3.37).
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      The Project Manager will be responsible for the implementation and
monitoring of the project (para. 4.04). Routine records will be kept on all
project actions, programs, budgets and expenditures. Staff will collect and
analyze sufficient technical and financial data to evaluate the effects of the
project and to follow its progress against the project implementation schedule
(Chart 19175). A set of key indicators has been developed for that purpose



- 27 -
(Annex 1, Table 1). During the first two years, the project manager will
submit quarterly progress reports to the Bank through WDD, who will include a
summary of the project account (para. 4.16) and forward the report to the Bank
within two months from the end of the report quarter. After the first two
years, similar reports will be prepared and submitted each six months. The
proposed higher frequency in the first two years is because of the number of
critical actions which will need to be taken, including such tasks as setting
up and staffing the project organization, appointment of consultants, purchase
of vehicles and equipment, preparation of detailed investigations and designs
for project facilities and groundwater resources, and monitoring activities on
the first phase of the Pendaskinos pipeline (para. 3.10). In addition to the
latter reports, the project manager will prepare a draft completion report
for submission to the Bank within three months of the Closing Date of the
project. This report will include an ex-post economic and technical evalua-
tion of the project as it was actually implemented. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations on the acceptability of the above monitoring, evaluation
and reporting procedures.
V. TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
A. Cropping Patterns
Present Cropping Patterns
5.01      Rainfed Crops.  Most of the project area is used for rainfed agri-
culture. Cereals (wheat and barley) are occasionally produced alone but are
commonly intercropped with carobs and olives. Carob and olive trees are occa-
sionally grown in groves and cultivated with no intercropping but are more
often widely spaced and scattered with cereals intercropped or grown in rough
land where sheep and goats graze and browse the sparse growth under and be-
tween the trees. In wetter years, small areas of cereals receive supple-
mentary spate irrigation in late winter and early spring.
5.02      Irrigated Crops.  Intermittent and perennial small-scale irrigation
is done in a few scattered locations primarily close to the rivers and mostly
with water from small individually-owned wells. Irrigation is a relatively
recent development in the project area and the potential land to be developed
constitutes a much larger area than can be irrigated with available water.
Irrigated crops include citrus, mostly Jaffa and Valencia oranges; a few
hectares of table grapes; and some vegetables grown extensively in rotation
with rainfed cereals.
5.03      More than one-half the citrus (mostly in the Pendaskinos river
valley) is less than six years old and there are no historical yield or pro-
duction data from the area. More than 70% of the citrus which is eight or
more years old is Jaffa which produces less and commands lower prices than
other citrus. Most of the citrus trees have already suffered severely from
irrigation water shortage indicating a seriously overplanted situation.



- 28 -
5.04      Small areas of vegetables are cultivated in the Maroni and Zyyi-
Tokhni areas and lower Pendaskinos river valley. Since water rather than
land is the limiting factor, vegetables are grown extensively in a rather
loosely defined rotation with rainfed cereals, and there are no area yield
and production data on intensive vegetables growing in the area.
5.05      Table grapes receiving only one or two irrigations per year are
grown in small plots on about 13 ha. There is evidence that table grapes
are well adapted to all the project area, provided adequate water is avail-
able for one or two pre-harvest and one post-harvest irrigation.
Future Cropping Patterns
5.06      Without Project.  Groundwater resources in the project area are
overexploited. Without additional irrigation water to be provided by the
project the cropping pattern would remain primarily cereals with carobs and
olives produced under normal rainfed conditions. The area presently planted
to citrus would need to be reduced rather drastically since available irri-
gation water does not meet current demand and the situation will worsen as
more citrus begins to reach production age. Some current citrus plantations
would probably give way to vegetable-cereal rotations or straight rainfed
cereal production. Since the area currently being irrigated is small and
irrigation water already over-exploited, a without project cropping pattern
of only rainfed agriculture is assumed and benefits of improved production
technology are given to cereal production.
5.07      With Project.  With the project, sufficient irrigation water will
be supplied to irrigate the 1,160 ha of project lands. Present rainfed
agricultural crops are expected to give way to irrigated crops. The expected
with project cropping pattern will be as follows:
Cropping Pattern
Irrigation Scheme
Crop              Vasilikos     Pendaskinos      Gypsum         Total
%     ha      %      ha      %      ha      %     ha
Lemons/Grapefruit      50      412     67   150.0    -       -       48   562.0
Table Grapes           19     157             -       -      -       14   157.0
Normal Vegetables      22      183     23    52.4    70      73      27   308.4
Early Vegetables
(under cover)         9      78      10    22.6    30      32     11   132.6
TOTAL                 100     830    100   225.0   100    105    100 1,160.0
Double-cropping
Normal Vegetables      30       78     30    22.0    -       -       30   100.0
Early Vegetables
(under cover)        10      26      10     8.0    -       -      10    34.0
CROPPING INTENSITY /a 40       104     40    30.0                    40   134.0
/a Double-cropping is estimated for 40% of total vegetables.



- 29 -
B. Yields
Present Yields
5.08      Cereals, barley and wheat, are the principal crops grown under the
rainfed conditions of the project area to be irrigated. Carobs and olives
are usually intercropped with the cereals. The cereals yield about 1.8
ton/ha of grain and the carobs and olives together yield about 0.7 ton/ha
of fruit. With improved extension service assistance, yields might be
expected to increase by about 2% per year for about five years and then level
off. These yield increases have been imputed during the first five years.
With the project these crops would then be phased out.
Future Yields
5.09      Citrus.  Citrus yield studies were made for the Paphos and Akrotiri
Project, the Morphou-Tylliria Project, and some average yields in the Larnaca
District were collected in order to establish an estimated yield for the
project. The results of the above studies and relevant information from
farmers and local institutions such as the cooperatives were used to estimate
project future yield. Future yields of each kind of citrus were estimated and
weighted by area according to the proposed cropping pattern. A weighted
average future yield of 45 tons/ha at full development was adopted for the
project area.
5.10      Vegetables.  Information on vegetable yields within the project
area is very limited and completely lacking for vegetables under cover.
Yield data were collected and analyzed from other production areas for each
vegetable likely to be in the future cropping pattern. From this analysis,
a future yield was estimated for each vegetable and weighted according to
the area (yields for individual crops are shown in Annex 1, Table 5). The
weighted future yields adopted for the project area are 22.9 t/ha for normal
season vegetables; 22.6 t/ha for early season vegetables under low tunnels;
and 52.6 t/ha for early season vegetables in greenhouses.
5.11      Growing vegetables under low tunnels promotes early production for
higher prices, but no increase in yield is expected. In greenhouses vege-
tables are grown in a controlled environment and yields of 2.5 to 4 times
that of open field and tunnel grown vegetables are normal. The conservative
yield of greenhouse vegetables adopted for the project is 2.3 times that of
vegetables produced under low tunnels.
5.12      Table Grapes.  Future yields for table grapes were taken from a
previously feasibility study made for Bank Loan 960-CY. The area in grapes
within the project area and Larnaca province is insignificant; therefore,
local yield data were not available. Since soil and climate were determined
to be well adapted to grape culture and the project will provide the needed
irrigation water, a yield of 22 t/ha was adopted for the project area.



- 30 -
VI. MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
6.01      With the project, production will be expected in citrus (lemon and
grapefruit), table grapes and vegetables. At full development (year 15) pro-
duction from the proposed project would be:
Present
Without         At full           Cyprus
Product           Project       Development       Production
t                t                 t
Rainfed /a         3,178             -                 -
Citrus               -            25,290           101,119
Table Grapes         -             3,454            25,000
Vegetables and
Potatoes  b        -            13,442           300,000
/a   Rainfed crops are 17% hard wheat, 36% soft wheat and 47% barley inter-
cropped with carobs and olives.
/b   Vegetables include normal full season, early under plastic tunnel
and early under plastic house vegetables.
6.02      The irrigated area in the project will be about 3% of the total
irrigated area in Cyprus. The annual value foregone of rainfed crops pro-
duced from 1,160 ha is about US$0.4 million, while the value of high value
crops produced from the same area irrigated with water provided under the
project is about US$6.6 million in mid-1978 prices.
B. Prices
6.03      With the exception of labor and land, most agricultural production
inputs are imported into Cyprus, free of custom duties and taxes. Prices of
outputs are not controlled. The prices used in the financial and economic
analyses are, therefore, based on the actual farm gate prices received in
recent years. In spite of output prices having increased significantly during
1974-1977, the adopted farm gate prices have been derived by application of
least-squares regression techniques on three-year moving averages (to minimize
fluctuations) to the period 1960-1977 for those products on which there are no
Bank projections available. The price assumptions used in the analysis may be
considered conservative as they are below the averages of historical prices
for the period 1974-1977, and slightly below the available Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Department projected estimates in constant terms in
the case of lemons.



- 31 -
C. Marketing
6.04      A remarkable recovery has been made by the Cyprus fruit and vege-
table industry in the south since 1974. Exports have been steadily increasing
since then. The project will stimulate fruit and vegetable production which
is in short supply for both the domestic and export markets. The early season
table grapes produced in Cyprus (four weeks earlier than in other Southern
European countries) are very much in demand in Northern Europe and are pro-
tected from the mid-summer Mediterranean production. The incremental produc-
tion of 3.5 thousand tons of table grapes is expected to be marketed easily
as Northern Europe's deficit is estimated at 46,000 tons by 1985. 1/ Produc-
tion of oranges in the project is not planned as their markets are very
competitive. Markets for the expected 25,000 tons of lemons and grapefruits
are presently available in UK and Northern Europe due to the top quality of
Cyprus output and the experienced export organization composed of cooperatives
and private firms. Bank forecasts indicate an increase of 40 percent in world
exports of grapefruit through 1985. These forecasts appear as reasonable
proxies also for lemons. Vegetable and potato production of 13,000 tons from
the project will be consumed locally and some exported. Per capita consump-
tion of these products was 186 kg in 1973 and is expected to rise to 274 kg in
1985. According to an FAO study, the European demand of fruits and vegetables
from Cyprus would increase by 30,000 to 35,000 tons by 1986. The rapidly
growing spring and summer tourism in Cyprus will continue to increase the
domestic demand for the outputs of the project.
D. Producer Income and Financial Rates of Return
Income and Employment Structure
6.05      There are 400 farmers in the project area (155 engaged full-time
in farming and 245 part-time) with weighted average family size of 4.1 persons
(ranging from 4.5 persons for full-time farmers to 3.9 persons for part-time
farmers). The farming population represents 61% of the population in the
area; the remainder is classified as pensioners (18%) and other non-classified
(21%). 2/ Total incomes for part-time farmers are higher than for full-time
farmers as off-farm income is between four to five times on-farm income.
Almost all the farming population in the project area fall at or below the
1/   The Marketing of Fruits and Vegetables in Five EEC Countries, Volume X,
Market Development Case Studies, Landel Mills Associates Limited, London,
February 1978.
2/   Annex 1, Tables 6-8; Bureau of Planning, 1977 Agricultural Census; and
Bank Estimates.



- 32 -
current Relative Poverty Level (US$513 in 1977) with the exception, perhaps,
of that in the villages of Zyyi and Psemastimenos. The weighted average
annual per capita income for full-time farm families in the project area
was CE 52 (US$128), and for part-time farm families (on-farm
plus off-farm income) Ch 108 (US$265).
Financial Rates of Return
6.06      Farm budgets have been prepared for four representative model
farms, based on the expected with-project cropping patterns (para. 5.07) and
the farm size distribution in the project area (para. 2.06). Farm sizes and
major operations under irrigation are as follows:
Farm Model        Farm Size    Total Area              Major Operation
(ha)           (ha)
Farm 1                5            400         Citrus with intercropping during
establishment.
Farm 2                5            100         Citrus, table grapes, normal and
early vegetables with intercrop-
ping in citrus during establish-
ment.
Farm 3                2            400         Citrus, table grapes, normal and
early vegetables with intercrop-
ping during establishment.
Farm 4                2            260        Normal and early vegetables.
6.07      The underlying cash flow statements are given in Annex 1, Tables
9-12. Producers' benefits, classified for each farm category are summarized
in Table 6.1. The financial rates of return and cash flows indicate that it
should be financially rewarding for farmers to undertake the investments and
to introduce the supporting technology for intensive cultivation. Over the
10-year comparative period, per capita incomes would increase significantly
(about 6 to 8 times over the without project situation depending on the crop
mix), it being expected that the farm family would be fully occupied, and even
outside labor would need to be hired. At full development family income
would exceed the current minimum wage of Ci 780 annually (in 1978 terms) for
all farm models. The sensitivity tests are satisfactory. The analysis
indicates that in the worst general situation (a one-year lag in all revenue-
producing activities and all on-farm investments complete, with all cost
increasing by 10%) no financial rate of return would fall below 15%. The
trends in prices paid to farmers and in the technical coefficients indicate
that the best estimate of the basic rate of return is more likely to be the
case than the lower values indicated by the worst situations of the sensitivity
tests.



Producers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
Estimated Net Family                  Estimated Per Capita
Operating Income                      Operating Income/2
Farm Model               from All Sources                       from All Sources-
With Project                         With Project       Financial
Without     Before           After           Without   After Water         Rate of/3    Sensitivity/4
Project  Water Charges  Water Charges-    Project         Charges          Return            Tests
C- ---- CE-
Farm 1 (5 ha)    236          4,975           4,130            52            918               38         32-31-22-22
Farm 2 (5 ha)    236          7,340           6,680            52          1,485               43         36-31-21-22
Farm 3 (2 ha)    422          2,816           2,561           108            656               62        50-45-21-28
Farm 4 (2 ha)    422          3,936           3,658           108            938               44        36-28-17-21
/1 Year 10. Water charges at unit rate of 25 mils/m3.
/2 Family size for Farms 1 and 2 estimated at 4.5; for Farms 3 and 4
at 3.9.  Average for the project area is 4.1.
/3 Calculated in incremental operating income after water charges.
/4 Financial rate of return as investment costs increase 20%, operating
expenditures increase 20%, gross returns decrease 20%, or there
exists a one-year lag in start-up, respectively.
October 22, 1978



- 34 -
E. Project Charges and Recovery of Costs
Allocation of Costs
6.08      User-  f the irrigation and domestic water supply will repay the
costs of the project through water charges (paras. 4.12, 4.15) on volume-
trically measured supplies. Since the sources of water charges are from
independent users (farmers and city consumers) allocation of project costs is
necessary to distribute project costs among the purposes served. Joint costs
are taken as the difference between the cost of the multipurpose project as a
whole and the total of the costs specific to each of the two project purposes:
(i) provision of irrigation water, and (ii) provision of domestic water.
Joint costs thus represent a residual attributable to both purposes, with
equitable share of the joint costs being assigned to each purpose. Thus, the
costs of the Kalavasos and Dhypotamos dams, the Maroni diversion, and the O&M
Building are taken as joint costs; all other costs are specific and can
clearly be attributed to either of the two purposes.
6.09      All attribution calculations have been carried out in present value
terms, discounted at the opportunity cost of capital of 9% over the forty-year
period. The project costs are summarized as follows:
Investments           O&M        Total
-------------C  thousands------------
Joint Costs                          6,028              177        6,205
Specific Costs:
Irrigation System                  1,226              129        1,355
Potable Water System               3,041              845        3,886
Of the net present value of the project benefits amounting to Ci 19.4 million,
43% or Ci 8.4 million arise from agriculture, and 57% or Ci 11.0 million from
potable water sales. Therefore, the cost allocation on the basis of benefits
is as follows:
Percent of         Joint Costs
Benefits      Benefits        to be Allocated
CE '000                           Ci ' 000
Agriculture               8,394          43                 2,668
Potable Water            10,976          57                 3,537
19,370        100                 6,205
The unit cost of water for each purpose and at different stages can be derived
by the attribution of the joint cost for each purpose, added to its respective
specific cost stream and allocated to the present values of the water consump-
tion for each respective use (57 MCM and 52 MCM for agriculture and potable
uses respectively). The unit cost for the project water is thus:



- 35 -
Irrigation Water          Potable Water
---------------Mils/m3----------------
Cost at the dam                          47                       68
Cost of distribution and/or
treatment to farm gate or
city gate                              24                       75
Total cost per unit delivered            71                      143
Cost of Surface Irrigation Water
6.10      Cyprus has a well established system of charges applicable to
government constructed waterworks for irrigation. All of the project works
fall under the category of major dams and are initially fully financed by
the Government. Costs financed include planning, design and construction.
All recovery arrangements are governed by the Waterworks Law (1928). This
law and subsequent amendments up to 1977 provide for the recovery, through
volumetrically-measured water charges, of between 40 to 65% of the average
weighted unit costs of the construction, operation and maintenance of all dams
and distribution systems financed up to the present. It is government policy
to apply water charges taking into account the economic and social conditions
prevailing in the area to be served by the projects, the type of crop, land
fertility and similar factors. The overall recovery percentage country-wide
averages at present 40% of all costs, resulting in an average water charge of
11 mils/m3. This average charge varies by crop type as follows: 1/
Crop                                  Maximum Charge      Normal Charge
------------(Mils/m3)-----------
Vegetables                                  15                  10
Citrus                                      20                   5
Table Grapes                                15                  15
Cereals                                      5                   5
6.11      The unit cost of water from the proposed project and for the
country-wide water resources (including the proposed project) would be as
follows under varying recovery rates:
1/   Irrigation Charges Regulation, 1965 (Chapter 314, Section 29 of Govern-
ment Waterworks Law).



- 36 -
Irrigation Water Charges Under
Varying Recovery Rates
Unit Cost   40%           50%           65%
Mils/m3-----------------
Proposed Project
Dams only                      47      19            24            31
Dams and distribution          71      28            36            46
Country-wide
Including the. Project
Dams only                      34      14            17            22
Dams and distribution          47      19            24            31
A water charge of 25 mils/m3 for any type of crop is proposed.  This is equiv-
alent to an increase of 127% over the present average water charge of 11
mils/m3 and would recover about 50% of the capital and full O&M unit costs of
the country-wide water resources. Assurances were obtained from Government
that (i) not later than one year prior to the availability of irrigation water
from the project, a water charge will be set; (ii) upon the availability of
irrigation water, an irrigation water charge will be collected from project
beneficiaries, and be reviewed not less than once every five years, so as to
recover the full O&M costs, and at least 50% of the weighted average of the
unit costs of all investment costs in major irrigation projects over the
lifetime of 40 years at an interest rate of at least 9% p.a.
Cost of Gypsum Aquifer Water
6.12      The minor schemes (two tubewells with their conveyance and distri-
bution system) will be constructed, operated and maintained by WDD. Full
recovery is expected on the initial construction, operation and maintenance of
these minor schemes through water charges. The present value of the unit cost
from these sources is 19 mils/m3. Assurances were obtained from Government
that when the Gypsum aquifer water becomes available a water charge for the
two tubewells will be set so as to recover full capital, operation and main-
tenance costs over the project lifetime of 40 years at an interest rate of
at least 9% p.a. Such water charge, however, will be adjusted by WDD to take
into account the fact that the quality from these sources is lower than that
from surface sources.
Rent and Cost Recovery at the Farm Level
6.13      The implications for public revenues and farmers' incomes of the
above policies towards the recovery of the capital and recurrent costs of the
project are analyzed below. All data are in present value terms, discounted
at the opportunity cost of capital of 9% over the 40-year evaluation period
and in terms of mid-1978 prices. All project costs are net of taxes and the
debt service payments are expressed in constant terms.
6.14      The rent and cost recovery analysis has been applied to the four
Farm Models representing the typical crop mixes and farm sizes in the project



- 37 -
area (para. 6.06). The rent recovery index takes into account several fac-
tors. A return was allowed for on the farmers' own capital of 10% on its
market value.  Family labor was fully costed at market rates as there are
clear alternatives for outside employment at the current daily wage of CL 2.6/
day (US$6.80).  Management is a factor which cannot be objectively determined.
The three main activities (vines, citrus and vegetables) require considerable
managerial decisions, especially in the case of vegetables which need almost
daily decisions (planting, harvesting, water consumption, etc.).  Management
allowances have been set at 20% of incremental operating income (prior to
water charges) for vines and citrus, and at 25% for vegetables, reflecting in
the latter case a higher managerial requirement. These management allowances
have been weighted in each farm model by their respective cropping patterns.
6.15      The risk and uncertainty allowance has been imputed as follows.  A
minimum security acceptable to farmers has been calculated using a concept of
insurance capacity over a forty-year period. The ability of a farmer to
insure against a loss is set against the extent of loss resulting from given
levels of water deficit. This provides an indication of the maximum frequency
with which a farmer may accept each level of water deficit. Through the
dam operation study, the amount of losses and water deficits were calculated
and the average expected losses over the period were annualized for each crop.
The resulting annual payments, weighted by the cropping patterns, were imputed
as a risk allowance which can be taken as a fair method of measuring risk and
uncertainty. The annual allowances amount to US$104, US$164 and US$244 per
hectare of vines, citrus and vegetables, respectively, reflecting the varying
risks of water deficits for each type of crop.
6.16      The rent and cost recovery ratios derived from the above assumptions
are shown in Table 6.2. Most of the farming population in the project area
fall at or below the Relative Poverty Level mainly due to the rainfed condi-
tions prevailing in the project area. The initial water charge of 25 mils/m3
for any type of crop is the maximum that can be taken away from the value of
rent in the most vulnerable farm model of the four (Farm Model 4, which is a
2-ha farm dedicated only to vegetables). Farm Model 4 is expected to represent
the bulk of the small and part-time farmers in the project area who are
already skilled in vegetable growing. The proposed water charge would recover
practically all of their rent; nevertheless, adequate incentives are present
as imputations have been made for a return to all factors of production.
6.17      Under a homogeneous water charge (policy towards which Government
is moving nation-wide and already established under Loan 960-CY) the costs of
collecting charges are reduced as no extra effort is required to measure con-
sumptions volumetrically under multiple-cropping conditions; also there is
less incentive for switching production on the basis of differing water
charges.
6.18      Under the proposed water charge, farmers would pay between 41% and
53% of project rent for the farm models with mixed cropping, and 99% for
the models solely dedicated to vegetable growing. Annual water charges at
full development on a per hectare basis vary as follows: US$221 for vines,
US$440 for citrus and US$374 for vegetables. At full development, incremental



Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
(CL in 1978 terms)
Type of Farm Model
2                 3                 4
1.  Net incremental farm income                     28,657            45,397            17,329            26,724
2.  - depreciation                                   3,090            11,441             3,098             8,923
3.  - family labor                                   3,834             8,685             3,358             5,584
4.  - management services                            5,860            10,309             3,912             6,963
5.  - return on own capital                          1,391             2,489             1,030             1,233
6.  - risk/uncertainty                               2,369             3,136             1,211             1,917         l
7.  Rent                                            12,113             9,337             4,720             2,104        X
8.  Rent as a percent of income (8:1)                   42                21                27                  8
9.  Volumetric water charges                         6,350             4,950             1,925             2,075
10,  Rent recovery index (9:7)                           52                53                41                 99
11.  Cost of water                                   18,034            14,058             5,467             5,893
12.  Cost recovery index (9:11)                          35                35                35                 35
13. Farmers' income per capita, in year 10,
at full development (1992)                        918             1,485               657                938
14. Estimated Relative Poverty Level, same
year (1992)                                    --------- ------------------456 ------------------------
15. Estimated national per capita income,
same year (1992)                              -------------------------- 1,369 ------------------------
Notes: -All items are incremental and discounted at 9% over 40 years, except items 13-15.                                A
-Net incremental farm operating income over without project situation,
excluding all depreciation charges.
-Items 14 and 15 projected from 1977 Bank estimates.  Item 12 assumes a zero inflation rate.
November 14, 1978



- 39 -
water charges from irrigation amount to US$0.5 million annually, resulting
in a 35% cost recovery over the project's life, assuming no inflation. All of
these charges will increase beyond the amounts stated as newer and costlier
irrigation projects are put into operation in the island, since the weighted
average unit cost of irrigation water is recalculated whenever a new irrigation
project is completed (para. 6.10).
Cost Recovery for Bulk Water Supply
6.19      The cost of water supplied in bulk by the project for potable use
will be recovered in full from domestic or institutional consumers. Assurances
were obtained from Government that the sale price for domestic water supplied
by the project will be set at a level sufficient to recover: (a) over a period
of 40 years and at an interest rate of at least 9% p.a., the investment costs
of the project facilities in addition to the investment costs of all comple-
mentary facilities required for the supply of the domestic water; (b) the full
O&M costs of all such facilities; and (c) a reasonable contribution to future
annual investments required for domestic water supply. Prices for the sale
of water will be reviewed periodically, but not less than once every five
years, and any changes in O&M costs will be reflected in such prices. Based
on the above formula, the minimum price in 1978 terms would be equivalent to
68 mils/m3.
Cost Recovery for the Multipurpose System
6.20      Present charges collected from water (both irrigation and domestic)
consumers are more than adequate to recover costs of the entire water supply
system, including facilities being constructed outside the project. Water
revenues from the potable water supplies would expand through 1984 as the
full supplies of water become available. Potable water charges, beginning
in year two of the project and based on the present level of tariffs, would
result in annual revenues of about CG 1.1 million (US$3.0 million) and CG 0.2
million (US$0.5 million) from the Dhypotamos and Kalavasos water supply
systems, respectively. The present value of all revenues from potable water
sales discounted at 9% is Cb 11.0 million (US$28.6 million) and Cb 1.4
(US$3.6 million) from irrigation water charges. In the cost recovery the
present values of investment costs for the multipurpose system amounting
to Ch 10.3 million (US$26.8 million), and O&M costs amounting to Ch 1.2
million (US$3.1 million) are charged against the project (para. 6.09). This
results in a 108% cost recovery index for the whole project assuming no
inflation, explained by the fact that the unit cost of potable water is lower
than the prevailing tariffs (paras. '7.01 and 7.02).   Assuming inflation rates
of 3% and 6% over the life of the project, the corresponding cost recovery
indices are 77% and 57%. Based on the current tariff, the cost of potable
water to the average low income family is assessed (on the lowest consumption
bloc) at 900 mils/month. Taking the minimum wage of Ch 2.6/day as a yard-
stick, the cost of domestic water to the consumer at that income level
represents thus 1.3% of his income.



- 40 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Aggregate Economic Rate of Return
Economic Benefits
7.01      The project will provide an additional 2.0 MCM annual of water to
supply domestic, commercial and industrial needs in the Nicosia area by 1980
and a further 3.2 MCM by 1983. In addition, the project will provide 2.0 MCM
of additional water to the Larnaca/Famagusta area by 1983.
7.02      The value to consumers of this additional water may be quantified by
reference to the prices they currently pay (ignoring consumer surplus). The
domestic water tariff in Nicosia is graduated progressively in six consumption
blocs, proceeding from 75 mils/m3 (US$0.74/1,000 gallons) for the first 10 m3/
month, to 500 mils/m3 (US$4.92/1,000 gallons) for consumption in excess of 30
m3/month (8,000) gallons). Commercial consumption is graduated in four con-
sumption blocs ranging from 130 mils/m3 for the first 100 m3 to 300 mils/m3
(US$2.95/1,000 gallons) for consumption in excess of 200 m3/month. Industrial
uses are also graduated to four consumption blocs, proceeding from 130 mils/m3
for the first 1,000 m3, to 300 mils/m3 (US$2.95/1,000 gallons) for consump-
tions in excess of 2,000 m3/month. The water tariff in the Larnaca/Famagusta
area has a flat rate charged for all uses and consumption levels of 110 mils/
m3 (US$1.08/1,000 gallons).
7.03      It is known that considerable unsatisfied demand for water exists in
Nicosia at the present time. Further, the growth of population in the medium
term is expected to be small (para. 2.11)--in fact, it could actually decline
for a time if refugees currently resident there were to return home. There-
fore, it is reasonable to assume that the additional water provided by the
project will be taken up in increased consumption by the existing population
rather than by an influx of new residents. In these circumstances, the price
which will be commanded by the additional supply will be above the lowest rate
which is applicable to minimum consumption. If the revenue attributable to
consumptions at these levels is left out of account, the weighted average
price for the remaining consumption is 362 mils/m3. 1/ This price is applied
to the net volumes of water available to consumers after account is taken of
the losses and otherwise unaccounted for water. The additional quantities
of potable water provided by the project may therefore be evaluated at this
price to represent the value of the stream of benefit. The cost stream com-
prises the sum of:
(a) all investment costs attributable to domestic water supply
(paras. 6.08-6.09); and
1/   Weighted average of the top three domestic uses (Bloc A); top commercial
use (Bloc B); and top industrial use (Bloc C).



- 41 -
(b) the recurrent costs of treatment and distribution nec-
essary to transform the bulk water into a saleable
product at the consumer's faucet; these have been
calculated, in 1978 prices, from operating accounts
of the three water distributing authorities in Nicosia
at 57 mils/m3, and 45 mils/m3 for the Larnaca/Famagusta
area.
7.04      The introduction of large scale irrigation in the Vasilikos-
Pendaskinos region and the provision of proper agricultural inputs and invest-
ments under the project, will bring modern agriculture to 1,160 ha which have
been subject to rainfed conditions in the past. The provision of an overnight
storage reservoir will assure regular irrigation supplies. The security
of supply has been estimated for the project area at 96%. Other increases in
the productive infrastructure include the provision of an irrigation network
up to the farm gate (including water hydrants and individual meters); improve-
ment of soil conditions through soil conservation work; land consolidation of
a highly fragmented ownership structure; farm roads connecting every farmer to
a major road; and related on-farm investments in tree and vine establishment,
greenhouses and tunnels. These investments in irrigation and productive infra-
structure would integrate the area and significantly increase the incomes of
project beneficiaries. All family labor will have an opportunity of being
fully occupied and additional hired employment will be a result of the project.
7.05      The incremental net benefits from the project (costing both family
and hired labor at the full market rate of CE 2.6/day) are estimated at CG  2.2
million annually at full development (equivalent to US$5.7 million). The net
present value of benefits over the life of the project is estimated at CIb 7.7
million (or US$20 million). This estimate is based on the phasing-in of the
gypsum aquifer area (105 ha) in the second year of the project after a one-
year development of the gypsum aquifer, and a phasing-in of the remainder area
in years 5 and 6, as the first water crop from the project is available in
year 5 (1983) (para. 3.19). Based on these criteria, a project life of 40
years, and on the data of Table 7.1, the economic rate of return of the proj-
ect is estimated to be 15%, with the following ranges for the sensitivity
tests:



Economic Rate of Return
(CB Thousands)
Year                    Increental Economic Benefits                                                       Investments                                                      Incremental Operating Costs
Water Supply        Irrigation                                           Water Supply         Irrigation
Sale of Bulk Water             Agriculture         Total                  System             System          On-Farm        Total                  System             System          On-Farm        Total
Dhypotamos        Kalavasos
System            System
1            -                 _-                                -                    1,620                594                          2,214                     --                                  -             -
2            199               -                 184             383                    559              1,641               298        2,498                     4                   7              151            162
3            398               -                 225             623                    306              3,153               -          3,459                     4                   7              152            163
4            398               -                 268             666                  1,047              3,576              -   -       4,623                     4                   7              153            164
5          1,148              211              1,181           2,540                    -                  517              901         1,418                   111                  42              689            842
6          1,148              211              1,873           3,232                    -                  110              608           718                   111                  54              863          1,028
7         1,148               211              2,286           3,645                    -                  -                  14           14                   111                  54              848         1,013
8          1,148              211              2,568           3,927                    -                  -                 -            -                     111                  54              864          1,029
9          1,148              211              2,685           4,044                    -                  -                -             -                     111                  54              809            974
10          1,148              211              2,402           3,761                    -                  -                 -            -                     111                  54              811            976
11          1,148              211              2,204           3,563                    -                  -                 -            -                     111                  54              845          1,010
12          1,148              211              2,087           3,446                    -                   46              298           344                   111                  54              884          1,049
13          1,148              211              2,062           3,421                    -                  -                 -            -                     111                  54              919          1,084
14          1,148              211              2,198           3,557                                                         -            -                     111                  54              955          1,120
15          1,148              211              2,330           3,689                    -                  -                 702          702                   111                  54              990          1,155
16          1,148              211              2,413           3,772                    -                    28             478           506                   111                  54            1,021          1,186
17          1,148              211              2,467           3,826                    -                  -                 -            -                     111                  54            1,039          1,204
18          1,148              211              2,516           3,875                    _         -                 -                     -                     111                  54            1,042          1,207
19          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    485                 -                _            485                   111                  54            1,042          1,207
20          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                  _        -                     -                     111                  54            1,042          1,207
21          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                     7              -               7                  111                  54            1,042          1,20/
22          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                298          298                    111                 54            1,042          1,207
23          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                -             -                     111                 54            1,042          1,207
24          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                    94              -              94                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
25          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                702           702                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
26          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                478          478                    111                 54            1,042          1,207
27          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                    46              -              46                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
28          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                -             -                     111                 54            1,042          1,207
29          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                     6              -               6                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
30          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                -             -                     111                 54            1,042          1,207
31          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                    18              -              18                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
32          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                241           241                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
33          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                -             -                     111                 54            1,042          1,207
34          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    226                  36              -             262                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
35          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    -                   -                421           421                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
36          1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    _                   -                239           239                   111                 54            1,042          1,207
37-40        1,148              211              2,545           3,904                    _                   _                -             _                     111                 54            1,042          1,207
Economic Rate of Return:  15%
Sensitivity Tests
Investments costs + 107.:  13.87.             Benefits delayed one year: 12.77.
Operating costs + 107.  :  14.5%              Benefits delayed two years: 10.97,
Project benefits - 107,    13.07.             Benefits delayed one year,
operating costs + 107. and
investments + 207.            : 10.27,
September 19, 1978



- 43 -
Irriga-
tion and                Irriga-
Agricul-    Potable                tion and
tural       Water      Agricul-   Potable
Agricul-   Potable   Operating  Operating    tural         Water       Rate
tural      Water    Expendi-    Expendi-   Invest-    Invest-         of
Benefits   Benefits    tures        tures      ments       ments     Return
-10%      -10%         -            -          -           -         13.0
-20%      -20%         -           -           -           -        10.7
-         -          -           -         +10%        +10%       13.8
-   -     -            -        +20%        +20%        12.6
-   -   +10%        +10%          -           -         14.5
-   -   +20%        +20%          -           -         13.9
-   -   +10%         +10%       +10%        +10%        13.2
-         -        +20%        +20%        +20%        +20%       11.5
-10%      -10%       +10%        +10%          -           -        11.1
-20%      -20%       +20%        +20%          -           -          7.4
Delayed   Delayed
I year    1 year        -          -            -           -        12.7
Delayed   Delayed
2 years   2 years       -           -           -           -        10.9
Delayed   Delayed
1 year    1 year      +10%        +10%        +20%        +20%       10.2
7.06      The sensitivity tests show that reasonable variations in costs and
returns keep the economic rate of return above 10%.  An increase in real terms
on agricultural and project investments of 10% and 20% reduce the ERR to 14%
and 13% respectively. A concurrent decrease of benefits in agriculture and
potable water sales, reduces the ERR to 13% and 11% respectively. An increase
in real terms of 20% in all investments and operating expenditures for the
whole project reduces the ERR to 12%. A one-year delay in the realization
of agricultural benefits and potable water sales (but with all investment
being effected on time) decreases the rate of return to 13%; a two-year delay
reduces it to 11%. The rate of return would be 10% in spite of a delay in all
benefits of one year accompanied with an increase of 10% in all operating
expenditures and a 20% increase in all investments. If the benefits of water
sales in Nicosia were to take into account all of the tariffs, including their
minimum consumption bloc, the rate of return would decrease to 12%. If the
water available in the Larnaca/Famagusta area continues to be in excess of
demand, because of the continuation of the present situation and were to be
shifted for Nicosia's use, the estimiated rate of return would be 18% as com-
pared with the base case of 15%, and would be 16% if the tariff in Nicosia
would take into account the minimum consumption bloc.
Least Cost Solution
7.07      As the benefits of the potable water supply may be considered fixed
since any water source will need to supply the Nicosia, Larnaca and Famagusta
areas, alternative sources have been considered for the supply of potable
water, as follows:



- 44 -
(a) Morphou-Tylliria. This project, considered in 1973 with FAO
assistance, envisaged surface water diversion to Morphou
from the western watersheds of the region. Within the scope
of this project, domestic water could be provided only to
Nicosia. As a result of the 1974 events, this project is
not feasible at present as 90% of the Morphou-Tylliria region
is located in north Cyprus.
(b) Pevisterona-Yialias Watersheds. Schemes to use such water-
sheds might provide lower cost supply but would not be
practicable because all the water is fully utilized for
small irrigation supplies and have not, therefore, been
investigated in detail.
(c) Nicosia Groundwater. Aquifers already in use might possibly
provide an additional 2 MCM/a on an emergency basis but can-
not be considered for a permanent increased supply. Develop-
ment of these sources is already underway and an additional
1.0 MCM is expected to be obtained in the next two years.
(d) Sea water distillation has been investigated and has been
shown not to offer a least cost solution.
(e) Southern-Conveyor Project. Surface and Groundwater sources
from the Mt. Troodos watersheds would be developed as part
of a major project to convey surplus water from the west
to serve the easterly part of the country. This is a high
investment cost project and although the project is under
study, it will take some years and could not provide water
in time to meet current needs. It may well provide the
additional water required in Nicosia after 1985.
7.08      Consideration has also been given to other ways of developing the
Vasilikos and Pendaskinos Watersheds. Other dam sites were considered and
preliminary investigations made, including capacity and cost estimates before
the present sites were selected. Different allocations of water for domestic
supply and irrigation were also considered, including the allocation of
Vasilikos entirely for irrigation and Pendaskinos entirely for domestic water
supply. This latter solution, though slightly less costly than the one
proposed, would not provide irrigation water as economically to the same rural
area and is not therefore as socially acceptable. If the same areas were to
be served, this solution would be most costly. In addition, the water supply
system has, under the project, the advantage of providing greater flexibility
in the use of different sources of supply to meet the required demand.
B. Beneficiaries
7.09      The direct beneficiaries of the project include the 400 farm families
(about 1,650 persons) who increase their incomes from fruit and vegetable



- 45 -
growing. They would have not only a higher income but a more evenly distri-
buted one throughout the seasons as there is a shift away from rainfed agricul-
ture to a year-round intensive activity. With the proposed cropping pattern,
the labor requirements for the project area will be about 261,364 man-days
equivalent. This will provide full-time employment for the 400 farm families
and an additional 471 full-time workers benefitting a total population of
about 3,571 persons and a better utilization would be made of the farm
families directly involved.
7.10      Major beneficiaries of the potable water from the project are the
urban populations, both Greek and Turkish Cypriots, in the region of Nicosia
(210,000) and in the Larnaca/Famagusta area (100,000).
7.11      Indirect benefits include the suppliers of goods and services scat-
tered in the project area, especially those dealing with construction, farm
structures and machinery services. The decline of population in the 26
villages located in the project area and north of the project area is due to
emigration and would be diminished as new opportunities are developed for
farmers and hired workers.
C. Project Risks
7.12      Geologic and hydrologic investigations and design criteria and
methods indicate the project structures will be sound and have a long life if
constructed as planned. However, two potential exceptions were considered
prior to and during appraisal. Under the first, foundation investigations at
Kalavasos damsite indicated a rather complex geologic formation of Pillow
lavas that have been subjected to block faulting with two noticeable fault
trends near the damsite. With the area being located near a potential earth-
quake zone, there was a question whether the foundation and type of dam design
proposed would be stable under the anticipated earthquake conditions. As a
result, a technical specialist in seismic design from the U.S. Bureau of
Reclamation was requested to evaluate this condition in the field. His report
indicates the earthquake potential for the site is relatively low, the fault
zones are old and inactive and appear to be stabilized, and the dam design is
suitable for the prevailing conditions (paras. 3.03, 3.13). Therefore, this
potential risk is minimized considerably. Special attention should be given,
however, to foundation treatment and grouting plans and methods during con-
struction. Under the second exception, additional pumping from the gypsum
groundwater aquifer and project diversions from the Maroni river (para. 3.22),
the aquifer's main source of recharge, brought up the question of over-
depletion of the aquifer, thus reducing its internal pressure and permitting
seawater intrusion. Geologic investigations and hydrologic observations along
the coast in the area of the aquifer indicate it is blocked from the seawater
by a thick overlying bed of Pliocene marls that extend far out to sea and form
a geologic barrier or cutoff, from the seawater. Prior to drilling of exist-
ing boreholes, the aquifer was under artesian pressure and much of the Maroni
River flow passed over the surface into the sea. When additional water was
extracted, the artesian pressure dropped and upstream sinkholes developed,



- 46 -
accepting most of the Maroni River flow as a recharge source. When pumped
extraction is stopped the artesian pressure returns from the upstream recharge.
Throughout this cycle the quality of the water in the aquifer remains un-
changed. These observations indicate no water from the aquifer escapes to
the sea and no seawater intrusion would be anticipated. If, during the life
of the project, overextraction of fresh water from the gypsum aquifer weakens
the barrier and allows the intrusion of seawater it will be necessary to
reduce the amount of pumping from the acquifer thus reducing the amount of
water delivered to the 105 ha of project and land served by this source.
Assurances were obtained that the pumpwell extraction from the Gypsum aquifer
would be carefully monitored to assure against over-extraction. The risk,
therefore, only involves a possible reduction in vegetable crop production
from a portion of the 105 ha in the groundwater service area.
7.13      Hydrological investigations of the rainfall and runoffs from the two
rivers indicate that, with the storage to be provided, the design yield will
be available most years but that there may be some deficiency in very dry
years. The security of supply has been assessed as 96% of the design figures.
7.14      Farmers in the project area could conceivably delay the establishment
of citrus in the amounts projected. This would be the case only if the
production of vegetables would be more favorable and the farmers desired to
build up early cash flows. Citrus in the project area is planned to provide a
balance in income and labor distribution and will most likely be established
in time.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the various issues referred to in
Chapters II-VII of this report, and subject to the condition of effectiveness
in para. 4.04, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of the equivalent of
US$11.0 million to the Republic of Cyprus for a term of 15 years with a grace
period of three years.



- 47 -                     ANNEX 1
Table 1
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Key Indicators
Action                        1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984
Organization and Staffing:
Select & Appoint Project Manager         May 31
Assign Project Staff                     June 30
Select Consulting Firm                   July 31
Appoint Add. Extension Staff                       June 30
Tenders, Contracts and Construction
Kalavasos & Dhypotamos Dams
Contractor Prequalification                      May 31
Compl. Designs & Specs. &
Issue Tenders                                   July 31
Review Bids and Award Contracts                             Jan. 31
Complete Dhypotamos Dam and Works                                                Dec. 31
Complete Kalavasos Dam and Works                                                            March 31
Maroni Diversion Works
Contractor Prequalification                      Oat. 31
Compl. Designs & Specs. &
Issue Tenders                                              Jan. 1
Review Bids and Award Contract                              May 31
Complete Diversion Dam & Canal
Works                                                                 Dec. 31
Vasilikoe Canal and Irrigation
Facilities
Contractor Prequalification                      Oct. 31
Complete Designs & Specs. &
Issue Tenders                                   Dec. 31
Review Bids and Award Contract                              Apr. 30
Completion of Final Distr.
Facilities                                                                                 Mar. 31
Developments by Government Force-
Account
Gypsum Aquifer Groundwater
Initiate Pumpwell & Deliv.
System                                June 30
Complete Installation &
Construction                                    June 30
Pendaskinos Pipeline & Turnouts
Compl. Tenders & Award - 1st 3.2 km  June 30
Comp. 1st 3.2 km with DWS Contracts              June 30
Initiate F.A. on Remaining System                Dec. 31
Complete Final Irrig. Facilities                                                 Dec. 31
Land Consolidation - Initiate Constr.  Sept.31
Compl. Constr. of Roads and
Plot Layout                                                                     Mar. 31
Project & O&M Headquarters Buildings
Secure Site for Research Sub-Station   May 30
Complete Buildings, Shops & Sub-Sta.               Dec. 31
Vehicles & Equipment
Purchase Project Equipment               July 31- -Dec. 31
Complete Purchase of O&M Equip.                                                    June 30
Land in Service (ha)                                     105                            851        204
Monitoring - Progress Reports                  Quarterly                   Semi-Annually      I
Completion Report                                                                               Nov. 1,
1985



- 48-                                     ANNEX 1
Table 2
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Project. Costs
Local     Foreign   Total        Local      Foreign   Total        F.E.
CL Thousand 1/                   US$ Thousand 1/               %
Dams and Diversion
Kalavasos Dam             1,473.1   1,729.2   3,202.3    3,830.1   4,495.9   8,326.0           54
Dhypotamos Dam            1,058.9   1,243.0   2,301.9    2,753.1   3,231.8   5,984.9           54
Maroni Diversion             239.9     240.0      479.9       623.7      624.0   1,247.7       50
Vasilikos Irrigation System
Main Supply Canal            155.2     132.2      287.4       403.5      343.7      747.2      46
Nightstorage Reservoir         7.9       5.3       13.2        20.5       13.8      34.3       40
Main Distribution System   139.3       325.2      464.5       362.2      845.5   1,207.7       70
Permanent Pipe at Farm
Level                       63.8     141.9      205.7       165.9     368.9      534.8       69
Subtotal               366.2      604.6      970.8      952.1   1,571.9   2,524.0         62
Pendaskinos Irrigation System
Initial Phase - Multiple
use 3/                     19.4       43.1       62.5        50.4     112.1      162.5       69
Final Phase and Irriga-
tion Pipes                 64.0      142.5      206.5      166.4      370.5      536.9       69
Subtotal                83.4      185.6      269.0      216.8      482.6      699.4       69
Groundwater Development
Pumping Stations               4.4      29.3       33.7        11.4       76.2      87.6       87
Irrigation Systems           11.8       31.0       42.8        30.7       80.6     111.3       72
Subtotal                16.2       60.3       76.5       42.1      156.8      198.9       79
Land Consolidation               78.5       53.9     132.4       204.1      140.2      344.2      41
Operating Buildings and
Equipment
Buildings                     40.3      10.1       50.4       104.8       26.3     131.1       19
Equipment and Vehicles        30.5      94.6      125.1        79.3      246.0     325.3       76
Subtotal                70.8      104.7      175.5      184.1      272.3      456.4       60
Admin.,Engineering & Supr.
Consultants                   57.7     326.8      384.5       150.0      849.7     999.7       85
Project Organization         359.6      89.9      449.5       935.0      233.7   1,168.7       20
Subtotal               417.3      416.7      834.0    1,085.0   1,083.4   2,168.4         50
Subtotal - Base Estimate    3,804.3   4,638.0   8,442.3    9,891.2  12,058.8  21,950.0            55
Physical Contingencies 2/       465.4      683.4   1,148.8    1,210.0   1,776.8   2,986.9         59
Price Increases               1,045.0      950.9   1,995.9    2,717.0   2,472.3   5,189.3          48
Total - Project Costs         5,314.7   6,272.3  11,587.0   13,818.2  16,308.0  30,126.2           54
1/ Discrepancies due to rounding
2/ 15% on dams, 12% on remainder
3/ 3.2 km of line to be constructed early for temporary domestic water supply to
Nicosia, then reverted to irrigation use upon completion of the dams and other
facilities
September 15, 1978



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures and Phasing
Units: CE Thousands
Totals 1/              1979                 1980                        1981                          1982                    1983                1984
Local    Foreign  Total      L     F       T      L       F        T         L        F       T         L         F        T        L      F      T      L     F      T
Kalavasos Dam
Civil Works                    1,657.6  1,805.5  3,445.1  67.5  97.2  164.7  373.8  397.1    770.9    588.0    690.3  1,278.3    545.5    523.8  1,069.3   44.5   52.2   96.7  38.3  44.9   83.2
Equipment                         22.8    210.2    233.0   -       -      -       3.5   40.1      43.6      -         -        -        19.4    170.1    189.5    -        -      -      -     -      -
Dhypotamsn Dam
Civil Works                    1,182.8  1,303.6  2,486.4  47.9  56.3  104.2  252.6  248.3    500.9    515.4    605.0  1,120.4    362.6    356.8    719.4   31.7   37.2   68.9   -              -      -
Equipment                         46.9    182.2    229.1   -       -      -       2.7   27.8      30.5      -         -        -        16.9    154.4    171.3    -        -      -     -      -      -
Maroni Diversion
Civil Works                      271.4    273.1    544.5   -       -       -      -      -         -       72.6      69.4    142.0    192.5    196.2    388.7    6.3    7.5   13.8   -         -      -
Equipment                           1.8     17.9     19.7   -      -       -      -       -        -        1.8      17.9     19.7       -         -        -       -      -      -      -     -      -
Vasilikos Irrigation System
Civil Works                      373.9    361.9    735.8   6.9   15.5   22.4   9.9   23.9         33.8    113.7      67.1    180.8    177.5    188.0    365.6   62.0   58.4  120.4   3.8   9.0   12.8
Equipment                         36.5    316.5    353.0   1.1    2.6    3.7   1.8    30.0         4.8      8.5      60.0     68.5      15.9    151.4    167.3    9.2   99.5  108.7   -        -      -
Pendaskinos Irrigation System
Civil Works                       60.4    105.7    166.1  14.7   37.7   52.4   4.7    10.9    15.6         22.1      30.0     52.1      12.0     22.0      34.0    6.9    5.1   12.0   -       -
Equipment                         30.0    106.0    136.0   2.0    8.0   10.0   3.0    27.0    30.0          2.7      24.7     27.4      20.5      30.8     51.3    1.8   15.5   17.3   -       -      -
Gypsum Groundwater System
Civil Works                        3.9      16.3     20.2   3.9   16.3   20.2   -         -        -        -         -        -         -         -        -       -      -      -      -     -      -
Equipment                         14.5      45.2     59.7  14.5   45.5   59.7                                     -        -       -        -       -       -       -       -
Land Consolidation - C.W.             79.9     55.9    135.8   6.9    4.8   11.7   -          -       -       10.7       7.5     18.2      40.5      28.5     69.C   19.1   13.2   32.3  2.7   1.9       4.6
Buildings
Civil Works                       38.9       9.9     48.8  29.1    7.0   36.1   9.8       2.9    12.7       -         -        -         -         -        -       -      -       -    -     -       -
Equipment                          1.4       0.2      1.6   1.4    0.2    1.6   -         -        -        -         -        -         -         -
Equipment & Vehicles - Equip.        30.5      94.6    125.1   9.2   35.8   45.0   9.1    49.9    59.0        0.9        0.9       1.8     10.4       7.1     17.5    0.9    0.9    1.8  -       -        -
Admin., Engr. & Supr.
Consultants                       57.7    326.8    384.5   5.0   30.0   35.0  10.0    74.0    84.0    15.0          100.0    115.0      23.4      94.8    118.2    4.0   25.0   29.0  0.3   3.0       3.3
Gov't. organization              359.6      89.9    449.5  25.8    1.1   26.9  53.7       2.3    56.0   101.3        27.6    128.9    161.5      53.9    215.4   13.3    2.6   15.9  4.0   2.4        6.4
Subtotal 2/               4,269.7  5,321.4  9,591.1 235.9  357.7  593.6 733.6   907.2 1,660.8 1,452.7   1,700.4  3,153.1  1,598.7  1 977.8  3,576.5  199.7  317.1  516.8 49.1  61.2   110.3
Price Increases 3/                1,045.0    950.9  1,995.9  10.6   11.6   22.2  96.4    90.7   187.1   319.5          272.1    591.6    511.6    454.9    966.5   81.9   98.3  180.2 25.0  23.3    48.3
Total Cost                5.314.7    2          8    246.5  369.3  615.8 830.0   997.9 1.827.3 1,772.2         9      3 744    2.110.3 2 , 32.7  4.543.0  281.6  415 .   697.0 71.4  84.5   155.9
1/ Discrepancies due to rounding
2/ Includes physical contingencies of 15% on the dams, 127. on the conveyance and distribution facilities and about 5% on groundwater borehctes
3/ Price increases on foreign equipment and the indirect foreign component of local equipment and supplies was based on 6.5% (1979) and 67. (1980-84). On the local components Df civil
works and indirect local components of equipment, the rates used were 97. (1979), 87. (1980-81), and 77. (1982-84) based on current and eat mated future price trends in Cyprus.
September 15, 1978                                                                                                                                                                                          D



-50-                             ANNEX 1
Table 4
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Disbursed                    Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year              During Quarter                Disbursements
& Quarter Ending                  US$'000                      US$'000
1980
September 30                         -
December 31                          60                                60
March 31                            250                               310
June 30                             371                               681
1981
September 30                        400                             1,081
December 31                         600                             1,681
March 31                            810                             2,491
June 30                             820                             3,311
1982
September 30                        820                             4,131
December 31                         806                             4,937
March 31                            767                             5,704
June 30                             800                             6,504
1983
September 30                        850                             7,354
December 31                         950                             8,304
March 31                            943                             9,247
June 30                             929                           10,176
1984
September 30                        300                           10,476
December 31                         1OQ                           10,576
March 31                            100                           10,676
June 30                             100                           10,776
1985
September 30                         61                           10,837
December 31                          63                           10,900
March 31                             55                           10,955
June 30                              45                           11,000



-51 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table 5
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Crop Yields
------------------Development Year-------------------
1       2       3       4       5        6       7
--------------------t/ha------------------------
Table Grape /1           -       -       1.1    11.0    15.4    19.8    22.0
Vegetable: /2
Tomato                 27.4    30.4    33.0    33.0    33.0    33.0    33.0
Eggplant, okra         20.8    23.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   25.0
Green bean             14.1    15.6    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0
Potato (spring)        24.9    27.6   30.0   30.0    30.0   30.0   30.0
Artichoke              18.7   20.7   22.5    22.5    22.5    22.5    22.5
Melon                  20.8    23.0   25.0    25.0   25.0   25.0    25.0
Lemon                    -       -       0.6     1.3     3.2     5.4      9.0 /3
Grapefruit               -       -       1.1     2.2     5.5     9.3    15.4 74
/1  Includes culls for local use.
/2  All normal yields.
/3  At full development, 32 t/ha in year 15.
/4  At full development, 55 t/ha in year 15.
Source: Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project, Feasibility Study, Volume II.
October 21, 1978



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS -PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Population. Employment. Census and Beneficiaries in IrriRated Area
Average    Average   Beneficiary   Beneficiary           Total
Village               Popula-      No. of        Total No.   Full-time    Part-time    Pensioners   other            Actual Number           Family      Family      Full-time       Part-time    in Project
tion        Samples      in Census    Farmers         Farmers          (No.}      (No.)   Full-time   Part-time  Full-time  Part-time    Farmers              Farmers          Area
1976      1977 Census       1977      (No.) 1977   (No.) 1977          1977       1977      Farmers      Farmers    Farmers    Farmers
Ayios Theodhoros          780           32           143           9              13             7          3          40            59         5.4         3.8           216            224            440
Maroni                    348          43             85          23               5            11          4          45            10         4.2         3.5           189             35             224
Kalavasos                 874           50           187           2              27             5         16            7          101         4.0         4.0            28            404             432
Psematismenos             216           18            56           2               6             3          7            6           18         5.0         2.3            30             41              71
Tokhni                    441          36             73           7              13            10          6          14            26         4.3         4.9            60            127             187
Zyyi                      105           7             20           4               1             2          -          11             3         4.5         2.5            50              8             58        ,,
Mari/Vasilikos            651           23            84           7               8             -          8          25            29         5.0         3.9           125            113             238 -
Total                3.415         209           684           54              73            38         44         155           246                                   689            952          1.650
N401/
Source: Mission and Bureau of Planning Calculations from Preliminary Estimates of the 1977 Agricultural Census.
June 1978



- 53 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 7
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Income From Full-time and Part-time Farming, 1977 Census
Average                        Size of   Benefi-  Income per
Village             Farmers   Income       Total Income       Family    ciaries  Beneficiary
(No.)     (CE)       (Ca)      (US$)      (No.)      (No.)     (US$)
Full-time Farmers /1
Ayios Theodhoros       40        300     12,000      29,900     5.4        216       136
Maroni                 45       263      11,835      28,996     4.2        189        153
Kalavasos               7       102         714       1,749     4.0         28         62
Psematismenos           6       196       1,176       2,881     5.0         30         96
Tokhni                 14       279       3,906       9,570     4.3         60        160
Zyyi                   11       166       1,826       4,474     4.5         50         89
Mari and Vasilikos    25        205       5,125      12,526     5.0        125        100
Subtotal         155                 36,582     89,596                 698
Averages                                236         578                4.5       128
Part-time Farmers /2
Ayios Theodhoros       59        368/3   21,712      53,194     3.8        224        237
Maronl                 10        545      5,450      13,353     3.5         35        382
Kalavasos             101       424      42,824    104,919      4.0        404        260
Psematismenos          18       479       8,622      21,124     2.3         41        515
Tokhni                 26       327       8,502      20,830     4.9        127        164
Zyyi                    3       639       1,917       4,697     2.5          8        587
Mari and Vasilikos    29        513      14,877      36,449     3.9        113        322
Subtotal          246               103,904    254,566                 952
Averages                                422      1.034                 3.9       265
Total             401               140,486    344,162               1,650
Averages                                350         858                4.1       209
/1  All family income comes from farming.  Exchange for 1977 was 1 CE = US$2.45.
/2  Non-farm income supplemented with on-farm income.
/3  Includes non-farm and farm income.
Source: Mission and Planning Burea Calculations from Preliminary Estimates of the
1977 Agricultural Census.
September 12, 1978



54                                   ANNEX 1
Table 8
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Inom=e Levels in the Irrigated Area
Net per Capita    Per Capita             Total
Item                        Income from        Off-farm           per Capita
Agriculture         Income              Income
(03) (US$)    (Ci)    (us$)           (Ci)    (US$)
Weighted average for
project area (1977)            33        81       53      130        86       211
Full-time farmers (1977)       52       128        -       -         52       128
Part-time farmers (1977)       18        44       91      223       108       265
1976 -1                  1977 /2
(Ci)  (US$)              (Ci)  (US$)
Per capita national income            521.0  1,250             627.8  1,538
Relative poverty level                154.0    370             209.3    513
/1 Exchange rate 1 CL = US$2.4
/2 Exchange rate 1 CL = US$2.45. NNP at factor cost is used
as a proxy for NY. It applies for the Southern area only.
Source: 1977 Agricultural Census Survey, Bureau of Planning,
Nicosia, Cyprus; Bank estimates.
November 13, 1978



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINDS PROJECT
Farm Model 1: 5 heccare Farm
(Citrus and Vegetable Intercropwint)
Proiected Incremental Cash Flow
Item                                          ---------------------------------------------------------------           Year --------------------------------------------------------------------
1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12         13        14         15
INFLOW
Funds generated                               2,725.8   2,250.3   1,361.5   1,025.8         135.0      687.0   1,587.0   2,625.0   3,884.0   5,145.0   6,035.0   6,530.0   6,825.0   7,265.0   7,485.0
Owner's contributionLI                          369.0
Credit:  Irrigation equipment                   999.0
Tree and vine
establishment                      2,495.0
Land consolidation                   325.0
Short-term credit                    654.0      467.0      668.0      588.0      428.0      493.0      593.0      722.0      830.0      948.0   1,052.0   1,135.0   1,208.0   1,208.0   1,208.0
Irrigation grant                                176.0                                                             _                             _
TOTAL INFLOW                            7,743.8   2.717.3   2.029.5   1,613.8         563.0   1,180.0   2.180.0   3,347.0   4,714.0   6,093.0   7.087.0   7.665.0   8,033.0   8,473.0   8.693.0
OUTFLOW
Investments:  Irrigation equipment            1,1i5.0                                                                                                      1,175.0
Tree and vine
establishment                  2,495.0
Land consolidation               325.0
Subtotal                   3,995.0                                                                                                       1,175.0
Debt service:  Irrigation equipment             126.2      126.2      126.2      126.2      126.2      126.0      126.2      126.2      126.2      126.2      126.2     126.2      126.2      126.2      126.2
Tree snd vine
establishment                   232.4      232.4      232.4      232.4      232.4      232.4      232.4     232.4      232.4      232.4      232.4      232.4.    232.4       232.4      232.4
Land consolidation               49.3       49.3       49.3       49.3       49.3       49.3      49.3       49.3
Short-term credit               703.0      502.0      718.0      632.0     459.0      529.0      637.0      777.0      892.0   1,019.0   1,131.0   1,220.0   1.304.0   1,304.0   1,304.0
Subtotal                  1.110.9       909.9   1,125.9   1,039.9       866.9      936.9   1,044.9   1,184.9   1.250.6   1,377.6   1,489.6   1.578.6   1,662.6   1,662.6   1,662.6
TOTAL OUTFLOW                           5,105.9       909.9   1,125.9   1.039.9       866.9      936.9   1,044.9   1.184.9   1,250.6   1.377.6   2,664.6   1,578.6   1,662.6   1.662.6   1,662.6
NET CASH INFLOW (Before water charges)        2,657.8   1,807.4       903.6      573.9    (303.9)    243.1   1,135.1   2,162.1   3,463.4   4,715.4   4,422.4   6,086.4   6,370.4   6,810.4   7,030.6
(After water charges)        1,812.8      962.4       58.6    (271.1)  (1,148.9)  (601.9)    290.1   1,317.1   2,618.4   3,870.4   3,577.4   5,241.4   5,525.4   5,965.4   6,185.6
aI Additional owner's contribution would compensate for negative flows occurring prior to full development.
November 14, 1978



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Farm Model 2: 5-Hectare Farm
(Citrus, Table Grapes, and Vegetables)
Projected Incremental Cash Flow
Item                                         ------------------------------------------------------------------- Year -Yea.----------------------------------------------------------------.
1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8            9          10          11           12          13          14           15
INFLOW
Funds generated                              2,873.5   3,777.9   4,211.9   5,204.7   5,395.8   6,017.0   6,526.1   6,837.5              7,215.2    7,593.5    7,860.5    8,009.0    8,097.5    8,229.5           8,295.5
Owner's contribution                         1,553.0
Credit:  Irrigation equipment                1,726.3
Tree and vine establishment        1,429.0
Land consolidation                   325.0
Construction                       6,078.0
Short-term loan                    2,658.0   2,517.8   2,653.0   2,710.0   2,694.0   2,241.0   2,778.0   2,816.0    2,848.0    2,883.4    2,915.0    2,940.0    2,961.0    2,961.0    2,961.0
Irrigation grant                               299.0   _           _
TOTAL INFLOW                                16.941.8   6.295.7   6.864.9   7.914.7   8.089.8   8,258.0   9,304.1   9,653.5   10.063.2   10.477.1   10.775.0   10,949.0   11,058.5   11,190.5   11.256.5
OUTFLOW 
Investments:  Irrigation equipment           2,031.0                                                                                                            2,031.0
Tree and vine
establishment                1,429.0
Land consolidation              325.0
Construction                  7.598.0                                                                                                            7,598.0
Total Investments           11,383.0                                                                                                             9,629.0
Debt service: Irrigation equipment             218.0       218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0      218.0       218.0       218.0      218.0         218.0       218.0       218.0       218.0        218.0
Tree and vine
establishment                  133.0      133.0      133.0       133.0      133.0      133.0      133.0      133.0        133.0      133.0        133.0        133.0       133.0       133.0        133.0
Land consolidation               49.0       49.0        49.0       49.0       49.0       49.0       49.0        49.0         -          -             -           -           -            -           -
Construction                  1,385.0   1,385.0   1,385.0   1,385.0   1,385.0             -           -          -           -          -             -           -           -            -           -
Short-term loan               2,857.0   2,706.6   2,852.0   2.913.0   2,896.0   2,409.0   2,449.0   3.027.0    3,061.0   3,099.7                 3.134.0    3,160.0    3,183.0    3.183.0    3,183.0
Total debt service            4.642.0   4.491.6   4,637.0   4.698.0   4,681.0   2,809.0   2,849.0   3,427.0    3.412.0   3.450.7                 3.485.0    3,511.0    3,534.0    3.534.0    3,534.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                               16.025.0   4,491.6   4,637.0   4,698.0   4.681,0   2,809.0   2.849.0   3.427.0    3,412.0   3,450.7    13.114.8    3,511.0    3.534.0    3.534.0    3.534.0
NET CASH INFLOW (Before water charges)         916.8   1,804.1   2,227.9   3,216.7   3,408.8   5,449.0   6,455.1   6,226.5    6,651.2   7 026.4    (2,339.8)   7 438.0    7,524.5    7 656.5    7,722.5
(After water charges)        256.8   1,144.1   1,567.9   2,256.7   2,748.8   4,789.0   5,795.1   5,566.5    5,991.2   6,366.4    (2,999.8)   6,778.0    6,864.5    6,996.5    7,062.5
October 21, 1978
H 
C



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Farm Model 3: 2 Hectare Farm
(Citrus. Table Grapes, and Vegetables)
Prolected Incremental Cash Flow
Item                                           -                                                                        Year --------------------------------------------------------------------
1         2          3          4          5          6         7          8          9        10         11         12         13        14         15
INFLOW
a.  Funds generated                          1,235.9   1,436.8   1,414.2   1,917.1   2,052.3   2,333.5   2,544.8   2,648.6   2,774.5   2,900.6   2,989.6   3,039.1   3,068.6   3,112.6   3,134.6
b.  Owner's contribution                       360.0
c.  Credit: Irrigation equipment               560.0
Tree and vine establishment       590.0
Land consolidation                130.0
Constructions                   1,439.0
Short-term credit                 823.0      764.0     821.0      851.0      853.0      873.0     886.0      899.0      910.0      922.0     932.0      940.0      948.0      948.0     948.0
d.  Irrigation grant                            99.0                                                                                                             _            _
TOTAL INFLOW             5,236.9   2.200.8   2,235.2   2.768.1   2,905.3   3.206.5   3.430.8   3,547.6   3,684.5   3.822.6   3,921.6   3.979.1   4.016.6   4.060.6   4,082.6
OUTFLOW
a.  Investments: Irrigation equipment          659.0                                                                                                       659.0
Tree and vine
establishment               590.0
Land consolidation           130.0
Constructions             1.799.0                                                                                                     1.799.0
Subtotal                 3,178.0                                                                                                      2,458.0
b.  Debt service: Irrigation equipment          71.0       71.0       71.0       71.0      71.0       71.0       71.01      71.0      71.0       71.0
Tree and vine
establishment               55.0       55.0       55.0       55.0       55.0      55.0       55.0       55.0       55.0      55.0       55.0       55.0       55.0       55.0      55.0
Land consolidation           20.0      20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0
Constructions               328.0     328.0      328.0      328.0      328.0
Short-term credit          885.0      821.0      883.0      915.0      917.0      938.0     952.0      966.0      978.0      991.0   1.002.0   1.011.0   1.019.0   1,019.0   1.019.0
Subtotal                 1.359.0   1.295.0   1,357.0   1.389.0   1,391.0   1,084.0   1,098.0   1,112.0   1,104.0   1.117.0   1,059.0   1,066.0   1.074.0   1,074.0   1.074.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW           4.537.0   1,295.0   1.357.0   1.389.0   1.391.0   1084.0   1,.098.0   1,112.0   1,104.0   1.117.0   3.517.0   1.066,0   1.074.0   1,074.0   1.074.0
NET CASH INFLOW (Before water charges)            694.9      905.8      878.2   1,379.1   1,514.3   2,122.5   2,332.8   2,435.6   2,580.5   2,705.6           404.6   2,913.1   2,942.6   2,986.6   3,008.6
(After water charges)           44 .9      650.8      632.2   1,124.1   1,259.3   1,867.5   2,077.8   2,180.6   2,325.5   2,450.6            149.6   2,658.1   2,687.6   2,731.6   2,753.6
October 21, 1978



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Farm Model 4: 2-Hectare Farm
(Vegetables)
Projected Incremental Cash Flow
Item                                           ----------------------------------------------- Year ----------------------------------------------
1          2           3           4           5           6            7          8            9         10
INFLOW
Funds generated                            1,354.8    2,698.5    4,119.7    4,119.7    4,119.7    4,119.7    4,119.7    4,119.7    4,119.7    4,119.7
owner's contribution/li                    1,389.0
Credit:  Long-term: Irrigation             1,138.0
Land consolidation                 130.0
Construction                     5,534.0
Short-term                       2,294.0    2,294.0    2,294.0    2,294.0   .2,294.0    2,294.0    2,294.0    2,294.0    2,294.0    2,294.0
Irrigation grant                            201.0                                                                                                      _ __
TOTAL INFLOW                             12.040.8    4.992.5    6.413.7    6,413.7    6,413.7    6.413.7    6,413.7    6.413.7    6.413.7    6.413.7
OUTFLOW
Investments:  Irrigation equipment         1,339.0
Land consolidation            130.0
Construction                6,923.0
Subtotal                8,392.0
Debt service:  Irrigation equipment          144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0       144.0
Land consolidation            18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0        18.0                     - -
Construction               1,261.0    1,261.0    1,261.0    1,261.0    1,261.0             -           -           -           -            -
Short-term                 2.646.0    2,646.0    2.646.0    2.646.0    2.646.0    2,646.0    2.646.0    2,646.0    2.646.0    2,646.0
Subtotal               4,069.0    4,069.0    4,069.0    4,069.0    4,069.0    2,808.0    2,808.0    2,808.0    2,790.0    2,790.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                            12.461.0    4.069.0    4.069.0    4,069.0    4,069.0    2.808.0    2,808.0    2.808.0    2,790.0    2.790.0
NET CASH INFLOW (Before water charges)   (420.0)         923.5    2,344.7    2,344.7    2,344.7    3,605.7    3,605.7    3,605.7    3,623.7    3,623.7
(After water charges)     (698.0)      645.5    2,066.7    2,066.7    2,066.7    3,327.7    3,327.7    3,327.7    3,345.7    3,345.7
/   Additional owner's contribution would compensate for negative flows occurring prior to full development.
November 14, 1978



ANNEX 1
Table 13
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Equipment List
It em                                  Number     Unit Cost    Total Cost
Item                      Number    ~~~~~~~--------- US$ ---------
I.  ConstructioiA/l
Sedan (1600 cc)                          1           6,000         6,000
Land rover                               9           7,800         72,000
Mobile crane - 3 ton                     1          38,000         38,000
Design and office equipment              -             LS          10,000
Laboratory equipment                     -             LS          15,000
Spare parts                              -             LS         12,000
Subtotal                                                      153,000
II.  Land consolidation
Land rover - 4-wheel drive               2           7,800        15,600
Survey equipment                         -             LS          5,200
Miscellaneous equipment                  -             LS          15,000
Spare parts                                                         3,200
Subtotal                                                       39,000
III. Research Sub-station
Land rover - 4-wheel drive               1           7,800          7,800
Tractor and equipment                    1           8,300         8,300
High pressure sprayer                    1           1,600          1,600
Two wheel trailer                        1             800           800
Miscellaneous tools and supplies         -             LS           4,000
Spare parts                              -             LS          1,500
Subtotal                                                       24,000
IV. Operation and Maintenance
Motor grader - 125 HP                    1          25,000        25,000
Concrete mixer - 1/4 m3                  1          1,500          1,500
Vibrator - mechanical                    2             500         1,000
Compressor - 250 cfm                     1         10,000         10,000
Motor boat                               2           1,000         2,000
Welding machine                          1           3,000         3,000
Truck - 1-1/2 ton                        1          8,000          8,000
Motorcycle                               3          1,000          3,000
Workshop equipment                       -             LS         20,000
Laboratory equipment (soil & water)    -              LS          15,000
Miscellaneous tools                      -             LS         10,000
Spare parts                              -            LS          10,500
Subtotal                                                      109,000
Total Equipment and Vehicles                                            325,000
/1 Part of equipment as needed will be retained for use by the Project O&M staff.
October 21, 1978



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Irrigation Water Demand and Supply
(MCM)
Item              Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   fa         June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Total
Net irrigation
demand              0.49   0.26   0.08   0.06   0.07   0.14   0.38   0.99   1.23   1.19   1.16   0.81    6.86
Gross irrigation
demand /1           0.69   0.37   0.11   0.08   0.10   0.20   0.54   1.39   1.73   1.67   1.63   1.14    9.65             0
Project water
supplied            0.64   0.37   0.11   0.08   0.10   0.18   0.53   1.29   1.68   1.65   1.57   1.08    9.25
Average overall security of supply:                                                                     96%
/1 At 71% global efficiency.
September 12, 1978
I cr
{D PC



CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Net Irrigation Requirements
(by Scheme)
Gypsum Aquifer                            Vasilikos Irrigation Scheme                   Pendaskinos Minor Irrigation Scheme
Table     Normal         Early                     Table        Normal        Early                   Table       Normal       Early
Month                        Citrus   Grapes   Vegetable   Vegetable         Citrus       Grapes    Vegetable   Vegetable          Citrus   Grapes   Vegetable   Vegetable
Area (ha):  -          -           73           32          AI2          157          183            78                      -          52.4         22.6
October                        -         -         33,018        7,725      234,304          -          82,771       18,829        8,531       -         23,701        5,456
November                       -         -         15,761       11,200      106,461          -          39,510       27,300       38,760       -         11,313        7,910
December                       -         -          2,366       11,654       15,491          -           5,856       28,408        5,640       -          1,677        8,231
January                        -         -            934       14,768           577         -           2,342       35,997          210       -            671       10,430
February                       -         -          1,402       14,723          -            -           3,514       35,888         -          -          1,006       10,398
March                          -         -          7,797       21,766        3,214          -          24,559       53,056        1,170       -          7,032       15,373
April                          -         -         39,595       28,560       68,145          -          99,259       69,615       24,810       -         28,442       20,171
May                            -         -         62,298       32,899      320,330      156,953       156,172       80,192      116,625       -         44,718       23,235
June                           -         -         74,840       15,766      484,718      188,400      187,612        38,431      176,475       -         53,720       11,135
July                           -         -         67,744        4,816      579,478       94,200      169,824        11,739      210,975       -         48,627        3,401       o
August                         -         -         73,080         -         556,076        94,200      183,201         -         202,455       -         52,458          -     
September                      -         -         55.976         -         420.364          -        140.324          -         153.045       -         40.180         -
Total (m3/a by crop)                           436,781       163.878   2.789.158       533.753   1,094.944       399.454   1.015,470                  313.525      115.739
Total (m3/a by scheme)                                       600.660                                           4.817.309                                         1.444.734
Total (m3/a all schemes)                                                                                                                                         6.862.703
October 3, 1978
F'|
I-  I-
U,P



62 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 1
CYPRUS
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al. Statistics and Research Department, Ministry of Finance, Economic
Report 1976, Nicosia, 1978.
A2. IBRD, Cyprus, CPP, August 18, 1978.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bi.  Agricultural Research Institute, MANR, Norm Input-Output Data
of the Main Crops of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus, November 1976.
B2. Water Development Department, MANR, Land Use in Cyprus, Nicosia,
March 1976.
B3. Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Agrarian Reform and
Rural Development in Cyprus, Nicosia, April 1978.
B4. The Statistics and Research Department, Ministry of Finance, Cyprus
Imports and Imports Statistics, Nicosia, 1977.
B5. Department of Agriculture, MANR, The Soils of the "Vasilikos-
Pendaskinos" Project Area and Their Suitability, Nicosia,
June 1968.
B6. IBRD, Appraisal of Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project,
Report 1579-CY, July 15, 1977.
B7. IBRD, Appraisal of Paphos Irrigation Project, Report 252a-CY,
December 18, 1973.
B8. Water Development Department, MANR, Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project
Feasibility Study, 6 Volumes (Volume V in 5 parts), Nicosia,
July 1977.
B9. Water Development Department, MANR, Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project
Feasibility Study, Volume VII, Supplementary Data, Nicosia,
May 1978.



63 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 2
B10. Water Development Department, MANR, Design Flood Estimates,
NictBia, October 1976.
Bll. Water Development Department, MANR, Annual Report 1976, Nicosia,
November 1977.
C.  Selected Working Papers, Tablas, Dravingg; -aid Maps
Cl.   Engineering and Civil Works.
C2.   Water Supply.
C3.   Miscellaneous.
C4.   Crop Models.
C5.   Farm Models.
C6.   Land Ownership and Farm Income.
C7.   Marketing.
C8.   Cost Recovery Analysis.
C9.   Credit.
C10.  Economic Rate of Return.






CYPRUS
VASILIKOS - PENDASKINOS PROJECT
SYSTEM DIAGRAM
5.2 Lefkara Dam
Nicosia
Lefkara
2.3 Maroni Diversion                             Dhypotamos pumping                            Irrigation                                                 _ 
Station              7                        55H
. _  .*    _    .    _    .    _    .                                                   _  . _ * _   *  | Ko rnos Treatment  , _ _
8.8 Kala|sos                                                  /D5.2                                                 Pumping Station _ _-
Kalavasos                                 Dam 6.7       U                  -"                Cap 20,000 m3 /day       r 0
Pumping Station                                                                                                       r  - L
<;7   ,//   2.0                                                                 -  -  -
Vasilikos                                                                                1.5Same Pipeline
Subsurface
Dam and
Pumping                6.8                                                                   I
Station                                                   Khirokiti             +   5.2   ss  I                                                                                                     Famagousta
OZ8                                           1.3         Treatment                                  a.s                                                                     6.75 
Groundwater                                              1.75
VasilIikos
Irrigation             Groundwater
Pendaski nos
Irrgaskinos                                                                Rural           Larnaca
Irrigation
Groundwater                                                         225 Ha
0.9                                                                                                                         Target Supply in MCM/year
4.....   Existing System                                   Irrigation Hectares
1--   Proposed System
+    -        First Stage of N.W.S. Works                  Domestic Water Supply
World Bank - 19171






CYPRUS
VASILIKOS - PENDASKINOS PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
PROJECT POLICY AND COORDINATION COMMITTEE
Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources . Chairman
Director General Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources ....... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . Member
MINISTERIAL  COMMITTEE                           Director General Planning Bureau ....... .      .  .    . Member
Director General Ministry of Interior ........ . Member
Minister of Finance . . Chairman                  Director General Ministry of                                                         Minister of
Minister of Agriculture . Member                  Commerce and Industry .M        e m ber ..................Member                   Agriculture and
Minister of Commerce . Member                     Commissioner of Cooperatives   Member .. Member                                   Natural Resources
Minister of Justice .. . Member                   Director Water Development  .... .               Secretary
Director General
r                     - -- --                Agriculture and
Natural Resources
r ~~~~~~~~                                                               -----------__   -________
Director Geological                   TENDER BOARD                               Development Dep                                                  Director Agriculture
Survey Department                     Accountant General                         & Project Director                                                   Department
Reo. Min. of Finance                             _   _
Rep. Planning Bureau
Director Stores
Rep. Min. of Commerce
Director of W.D.D.
| Consulting                                                                                          Project ManagerPROJECT  ADVISORY  COMMITTEE
Firm                                                                                   ......        7 Project      Manager District Officer .Chairman
W.D. District Officer .       Member
D.A. District Officer. .....Member
Project Manager. ........Member
Land Consolidation Officer . . Member
Land Consolidation                             Water Board Managers .        Members
l  Authority                              Farmers Representatives . . 2 Members
Dams andI
Conveyances 
Design and                 r
Construction                I                                                                            I                                                                                         I
Dy. Project Manager                                                                                   Dy. Project Manager
I (yPectcal)    |                                      Administration                                  lAgr.) and
Irrigation System                                          (Irrig, & D.W. Facil.)                                         i and Accounts                            Dist. Agr. Officer
Design and                   l                                                                                               .                                            .                           I
Construction    l  l
Domestic           I .           E,                     *_                     5E ,X     
Water Supply                 GeologicalSaeoWtr
Design and                Investigations          0        fF                                    .mlapRcvr  fExtension                                               ResearchOnFr
Construction             and Groundwater                d Works                  rm Road                               Rec  
World Bank - 19172






CYPRUS
VASILIKOS - PENDASKINOS PROJECT
LARNACA/FAMAGUSTA DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY
FORECAST OF PRODUCTION REQUIREMENTS
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9                                                           8~~~~~~.5MCM/a 
Additional Supply from Project 2.OMCM/a                                         eSurplus Avalable for
Present Supply 6.5MCM/a
-' 6
2./01MCM/a Temporary Surplus
from Lefkara
-5
z
0 4
3
/  -  . Annual Water Production
2
o                                            I                                                 1     1     1     1      1     I
1960   2     4     6     8   1970   2       4     6      8   1980   2      4      6     8   1990   2      4      6    8   2000
World Bank - 19173






CYPRUS
VASILIKOS - PENDASKINOS PROJECT
NICOSIA DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY
FORECASTS OF POPULATION AND PRODUCTION REQUIREMENTS
26 _
24-
22-
20-
is                                                                                                                                                    17.2MCMta
5  16 -                                                                                                                                                                    f  Kaso  s
C-o 14_,,;                                                                                                                                                1 5.2MCM/a
Z~14
0 .2
Cs
0   10,-        | 52C/  Project Works
0   f2  _                                                                            '        iO.OMCM/a  83 Et                           4 2.OMCM/a Phase 1 Works
_ t9.01VCM/a        )                                                          1.01IMCM/a Other Groundwater Developments
8 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Present Supply "It
6                                                                 _                                                                  to_-Annual Water Production
O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annual Water Consumption
4                                                                 _                                                                 Estimated Population Serv-^d
4      6       8     1960      2      4       6       8     1970     2       4       6       8     1980    2        4       6       8     1990      2      4       6       8    2000
World Bank -19174






CYPRUS
VASILIKOS - PENDASKINOS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year    1979   |   1980   1    1981            1982        19 3       11984
Calendar Year           1979        1980         1981         1982         1983         1984
Kalavasos Darn
Designs and Drawings                                               0
Tender Documents and Contracts
Construction
Access Roads                                                       no
Diversion Facilities                                                 M    T      Initial Storage
Dam and Appurtenances                                             _  _  _  __                      __ 
Dhypotamos Damn
Designs and Drawings                                                  A A  ward
Tender Documents and Contracts                         _                                    T=M1 i1
Construction
Access Roads                                                       onl            
Diversion Facilities                                                             Initial Storage
Dam and Appurtenances
Lefkara Pipeline Relocation
Maroni-Dhypotamos Diversion
Designs and Drawings                                                            rd
Tender Doucments and Contracts
Construction
Canal and Strujctures
Diversion Works
Vasilikos Canal & Distribution System
Design and Drawings                                                    A  Awards
Tender Documents and Contracts
Civil Works Construction
Canal and Nightstorage Res.                                                                       Initial Water
Irrigation Distribution System
Supply Pipes and Fittings
Pendaskinos Pipeline & Distr. System
Designs and Drawings                                                 Awards
Tender Documents and Contracts       in
Civil Works Construction
Supply Pipes and Fillings l
Groundwater Pumpwells and System
Land Consolidation
On-FarmT Irrig. Equip. and Facilities
Ground
Surface
Buildings and Equipnient                                 Awards
Project 0 & M Hdqtr. Building
Vehicles and Equipment
Progress on Irrigation (Cum:net ha)                         15            105         105          956         11 60
1/ First 3.2 Km built early for temporary domestic water supply before irrigation use starts in 1983.
/A Award of Contract                                                                             World Bank- 19175






CYPRUS
VASILIKOS - PENDASKINOS PROJECT
DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY FACI LITI ES
Implementation Schedule
Item          Calendar      1978           1979           1980           1981           1982           1983
Pendaskinos- Dhypotamios Facilities    _  _  __
Dhypotamos Pumping Station
Designs and Tenders
Supply and Installation
Civil Works                                           OI
Designs and Tenders
Construction
Nicosia Pumping Station
Equipment
Designs and Tenders
Supply and Installation_
Civil WorksA
Designs and Tenders
Construction
Treatment Plant
Equipment
Designs and Tenders
Supply and Installation
Civil Works
Designs and Tenders
Construction
Skarinou Storage Reservoir
Designs and Tenders
Construction
Nicosia Stcrage Reservoir
Designs and Tenders
Constructionmi                                                                                       m
Pipeline Conveyance System
Designs and Tenders
Construction                                                        Initial Water Delivery
Vasilikos - Kalavasos Facilities
Kalavasos Pumping Station
Equipment
Designs and Tenders
Supply and Installation
Civil Works                                                             ||1_
Designs and Tenders
Construction
Storage Reservoir
Designs and Tenders
Construction
Pipeline Conveyance Systemr
Designs and Tenders                                                                                           Total
Construction                                                                                                  Water
A   Award of Contract                                                                                         World Bank -19176






-                                                            24~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
~~~~~~~~~~~~T Ul R K E; Y  _ 
1 2 :   . 4   C Y P R LA 6 < -.   j S Y R I A                                                                           .   .   .
ITZUT$TYA2r.4f YA 4   CYRRTBE  ,--p                                                                                         _'
p-- - < /, 1, ,s, . s_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M E D   T E R R A N E A N           5 E A pT f[  
.'   A  R E                                                                                         PA  E   .
Rul"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
1                                       /  AX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
scmag-t2 Say
f ~  ~     ~      ~     strhR Boy     j/\               V      <                               fFmlgsr 
N I'COSIASKO-ENAKIOSPOJC
Kh,y                     Xt   $ okbo_u-q
Bay9 / '1L                    \                                                                   --Psesent CFre Lme
' z,~~-
242                                                                                                 4.A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ko,r   a
Episkopl s5wgor/P? '' /4t!ri rSaY   M E D / T E R R A N E A N        5ES A            o 4 * G  R RrM 
Bay5p                                                                                  52 ,  S  4  12 5






C Y P R U S                                                            --- j   ----
VASILIKOS-PENDASKINOS PROJECT    
Project Facilities
Pnojec, Arneo ISorlace)                  /7'|                                                               +'
|\\\\\\\\2   Prolect Areo (Groundwoter) I                                           -s
E, stm oprr potion S.htemes                                         S- 0<                                  55f)eb9  
GOVERNMENT WORKS x',                                                                  -/
Exis- ng   Prolect   1st Phose  2nd Phose   '                                                            )
Pipelines         I             -E         /          /-  /I
Cor-as                             IPANO  LEFKARA                                                                                            Kornos
Treatment Plant and
Pu   ing Station
Sypho-s                                                                 KATO LEFKARA
Treatment Plonts    i                                E        \\                               --f                    -
Porpiog Stations                           0         0 O           --                              ll N               5/
Storage Reser,ao,s    A                              A                    \ 
Groonidwero Wells              *                                   )h       \         Re acation of             'IiR to  of
Primary Roads                      |             t       >> t   Lefkara-Khirokitia\ 
Secondary Roads                                                       P Pipeline                     Dhypotamos
New Limossol -N os a Rood        4isi                                          Maroni                 u   amping
Tows                                                                          Diversion               Rto
1ioers                                                                          Canal2  3
h LOMETFRS                              j 
I'                   ~~~~~Diverin    )
Kan,                           I                                                S          IN \
r, \   /  X - \X ,, _
-,r   n      }     \  i/  arc
,>sC   K                               fl  < >                       a>/ SKARINO&>X  KJOPN
\s 4\, (   \      X          9                 \  )  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Khirokitia 3    M               
St,) ) \ \ | ~~~~~~~~~Storoge/ \\
Kk/K alavasos                KH(;dIROKITIA         r   ihirokitia Existing
Pumping Station                                                    Te Rser vi r
 @ - >5~~~~~~.,05  Ath7 oyoelp/i, )AYI>
X-'                        TkrNgtst    e    .TOKHNI ' // q  
05
KALAVA    SO   R eservolo// ir   EDSIO
o   MAl              IRRG          NRRIGATION SCHEME
SC8' I  EE/MATI RMINO       N
Exi\ tin  VaiiottM RN
5ub- surfac  Dom<                                                      (< AR
S/LIOS                        - \VASILIKOS                          "
0\N MRI                          .          .. .-qt\RRIGATION ...........,''"  1 '-
1\0                           t                 SHEME  ,'                         s            "o   
TAl
I/ RIGA             ,, ,,  T\ KHN                                                  SAFTO - LOURKAOIA                                      o
rh. on Coor One eneeeeredbef ten          /                                                                                                    r         
tOe reaso to wbwhiteCs,ttei#     EM .     IRLarn
Ottswtfs                                A/kle ditt err f a n e a n    Sea fJPr,oCEect AreoRrAra
doA ot,ottmt No s"6E tin    s.OnOVtt                                                                                            C                      20   40   60D 
Word Beoh .04/0ebaetfteo. pf                                                                                   Pophsos            L,maosol                            -       
jtxiJgotat ottvf the tneete S I LILOMOETEKS n,O
oar ascoptW CtV Or- f h inrh eeotooeeIet
0,00 seinson oinoohbeonttetiea ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ONICSI






33 10'                                                                                                 33V20'
CYPRUS
33Sl0                            -                                 i             33220               V                                 VASI LIKOS-PENDASKINOS
Project Area
Ayi V    tsinias                                                                                                                                                 Zone A, Population and Labor
directly related to project
NfoPono Lef kara                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~activities
r                                    Kato~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Zone B, Population and Labor
potential related to project
%                x                 1Wt ->y-ol tlefkJ t 0 activities
; t   \    C  v X     Kato sySn   4  m\        5         /                                          All-weather, hard surface, 1 or 2
[d<fvl.r:n\<+                        \b Lyia    Vala                                                                                                                              lanes, main or local roads
- -  - -  All-weather, loose or light
345Q                                                                                                                                                                                      surface, 1 lane light road
New  Limassol - Nicosia Road
0      1      2      3     4
KILOMETERS
M.-n,y  a       det .p.s by th wya ytttr
St hy ySeoy  t ty ypyt t  tyyth, K,r.y.h, n. dnt,,tyssy   5   h
byydyyyyytytttyttdttt,ypy.ONICy 5htyh OSIA ykodt
I> yt,oty   ytoygtC,  Yt th   Rat,.y    tt   etttt  tSySdtottto
M eo(iterroneon      Seo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                        ao.taoofoohttty,.
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10'                                                                                                                                                     J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,tOSt  r~ 5 a  



