Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17877- TU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
THE BASIC EDUCATION PROGRAM
JUNE 1, 1998
Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
FYR Macedonia, Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
TL 226,000 = US$ I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APK          Council for Research, Planning, and Coordination
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
BEPP         Basic Education Pilot Project
ERDD         Department of Educational Research and Development
ETGEM        General Directorate for Educational Technologies
GIS          Geographic Information System
IT           Information Technology
MIS          Management Information System
MONE         Ministry of National Education
NEDP         National Education Development Project
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PCT          Program Coordination Team
UNESCO       United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
YOK          Higher Education Council
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director: James Christopher Lovelace
Task Team Leader: Michael Mertaugh



Turkey
Basic Education Project
CONTENTS                                                                Page Nos.
A. Program and Project Development Objectives
1. Program and project development objectives and key performance indicators 2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project                 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  9
C. Program Description Summary
1. Program components                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Program     I 1
3. Benefits and target population                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection         13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies                                                      14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design          14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                  15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                       15
E. Summary Program and Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                         15
2. Financial                                                         15
3. Technical                                                         16
4. Institutional                                                     17
5. Social                                                            17
6. Environmental                                                     17
7. Participatory approach                                            18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                   18
2. Critical risks                                                    19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                    20



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Agreements reached at negotiations                               20
2. Dated covenants                                                  20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                            21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                           21
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Economic Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map          IBRD 29532



Turkey
Basic Education Project
in Support of the First Phase of
the Basic Education Program
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
FYR Macedonia, Turkey Country Unit
Date: June 1, 1998                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Michael Mertaugh
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber            Sector Manager/Director: James Christopher Lovelace
Project ID: TR-PE-9089  Sector: Education          Program Objective Category: Human Development
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Program Financing Data                    Total         Loan            Share of
(US$ million)                            Cost         Amount            Bank
Financing
Pilot Phase (Basic Education Pilot
Project) -- to be completed in Dec '98
APLs:
First Phase, Program Launch               2,515          300             11.9 %
Second Phase, Program Consolidation      4,172           300             7.2 %
Total, Phases I & II                      6,687          600             9.6%
Subsequent Phases                         5,045          TBD             TBD
Overall Total (including future requests)  11,732        TBD             TBD
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan       [] Credit       [] Guarantee   [X] Other [Specify]
For Loans:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$300 million
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 3          []   Standard Variable  [X] Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Service charge: Nil %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                               1,829.9              191.8          2021.7
Provincial Administration                                   36.2                5.5            41.7
IBRD                                                       155.0              145.0           300.0
National Donors                                            129.0               22.0           151.8
Total       2,150.1             365.1           2,515.2
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999      2000       2001
Annual    148.4      143.8        7.8
Cumulative    148.4      292.2      300.0
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: July 15, 1998  Expected closing date: June 30,2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Program and Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Objectives. The Basic Education Program is the Government's action program to apply its new basic education
strategy. The strategy and Program are described in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 5). The
objectives of the strategy (and of the Program) are: a) to achieve universal coverage in an expanded, eight-year
basic education cycle (formerly, five years), b) to improve the quality and relevance of basic education, and c) to
make basic education schools a learning resource for the community.
The Program aims to achieve these objectives by a) expanding the capacity of basic education schools throughout
the country, b) facilitating school attendance of children who are least likely to attend school, c) reducing classroom
overcrowding and double shifting, d) improving training and incentives for teachers, e) improving the supply of
educational materials to basic education schools, f) introducing computer-aided learning, and g) increasing parental
and community involvement in schools.
BASIC EDUCATION                 PHASE I                     PHASE II                PHASE III
Program Phases               Program Launch               Consolidation             Completion
Development           Establish capacity to implement,    Continue investments.  Continue investment
Objective             monitor and evaluate the Program.   Use feedback from   program until Program
Initiate key investments to achieve   monitoring process to  objectives are fully met.
Program objectives.            improve effectiveness of   Use feedback from
investments in meeting  monitoring process to
Program objectives.     improve effectiveness of
investments in meeting
Program objectives.
Key Program Outputs  Key infrastructure investments   Expansion of key        Program objectives fully
essential to meet goals of eight year  investments. Educational  met.
compulsory education in place.  and targeting initiatives
remain central on the
Program agenda.
Benchmarks for        /  Provision of a basic package of Triggers to be determined
Subsequent Adaptable      educational materials to all    for launching of
Loan and Grant            rural schools;              Completion Phase.
Financing             /  30% completion of facilities
upgrading for about 200
village schools;
v  Implement inservice teacher
training for teachers and
inspectors;
v  Carry out the monitoring and
social assessment program,
including the basic education
public information program;
Develop school infrastructure
program for 2nd phase;
v  Finalize IT procurement for
2nd phase;
/ Disburse or at least commit
60% of Phase 1 APL.
In addition to the above milestones, Program performance in terms of enrollment coverage and learning achievement
will be closely monitored throughout the Program, and will provide the basis for identifying triggers for the
subsequent phases.
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 3
Under this submission, Board approval is sought for an APL commitment of US$600 million to support initial
implementation of the Program: an initial APL of US$ 300 million to support Phase I implementation of the
Program, as well as authorization for Regional management to process and approve a second, overlapping APL of
US$300 million to support continued implementation of the Program, as soon as specified performance goals are
met. Beyond these first two APLs, the Government has requested further Bank financing for continued
implementation of the Program. A request for further financing would be prepared for Board consideration if
Program implementation is satisfactory.
Key Performance Indicators. Program performance will be monitored for four successive levels of performance:
a) educational inputs, such as the numbers of teachers recruited and trained, schools constructed and rehabilitated,
and students provided with textbooks, b) process indicators, such as enrollment, dropout and transition rates, and
class sizes, c) output indicators, measuring various dimensions of learning achievement, and d) impact indicators,
such as graduate eamings. Specific indicators and their rationale for inclusion are described in the attachment to
Annex 1. In monitoring Program performance, particular attention will be given to areas and children with the
lowest basic education enrollment ratios and performance. Performance indicators will play an important role in
ensuring that the Program gives appropriate attention to these groups with the greatest educational needs.
Input indicators are expected to provide the first quantitative evidence of Program performance. The triggers for
moving to the second stage of APL financing include indicators such as educational inputs for provinces with the
lowest enrollment rates. Program outcomes in terms of learning achievement, labor-market performance and other
development impacts will take longer to observe. Permanent monitoring processes will be instituted during
Program implementation, in order to track these longer-term outcomes.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16992-TU. Date of latest CAS discussion: September 4, 1997. Generic CAS objectives
which the Program will support include the following: To shift administrative resources into activities aimed
directly at social development and poverty alleviation, and to shift the focus of investment activities to poorer
regions. (para. 4.5), and to support initiatives to upgrade education (para. 4.10). Paragraph 4.12 of the CAS
describes the objective of expanded basic education more explicitly, stating that the Bank's highest priority in
education is to help the Government achieve its goal of universal schooling through the eighth grade, and
acknowledging the important role of the National Education Development Project and the Basic Education Pilot
Project (BEPP) in developing an approach for this effort.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A Growing Public Consensus
Public interest in expanded basic education in Turkey has grown progressively throughout the 1990s. An important
landmark was Turkey's participation in the 1990 Jomtien "Conference on Education for All," jointly sponsored by
UNICEF, UNESCO, and the World Bank. Following this conference, the Government initiated discussions on
possible World Bank assistance for the expansion of eight-year basic education. In 1995, the Government requested
an amendment of the ongoing National Education Development Project (Loan 3192-TU) to incorporate a two-year
Basic Education Pilot Project (BEPP) and preparation of a proposed project to support universal basic education.
This amendment was approved by the Board early in 1996, and the Pilot Project is now nearing completion. The
Pilot involves a new partnership of the Ministry of National Education (MONE), UNICEF, and the Bank. The
Ministry developed a number of the pilot initiatives for rural schools with UNICEF assistance, and is working
closely with UNICEF on the rural education component of the Pilot Project.
Public interest in basic education developed rapidly in 1997, culminating in Parliament's approval in August, 1997,
of a new Basic Education Law. This Law established a timetable for implementation of universal eight-year basic
education, and, for the first time, provided major budget resources (in the form of earmarked taxes) for the
investments necessary to achieve that goal. The current level of official and public support for expanded basic
education is unprecedented. An indicator of the breadth of public commitment to the Program is the amount of
private, voluntary contributions for the Program, which total $500 million to date-including a $150 million
contribution from the Istanbul Stock Exchange, and a $15 million contribution from a large private enterprise based
in Istanbul. In spite of budgetary shortages elsewhere, the Government has already committed $1.5 billion in 1998



Page 4
for the launch of the new Program, and is vigorously proceeding with the initial stages of implementation.
The Government aims to attain the objective of universal eight-year basic education progressively over the next
three school years. The Basic Education Law requires that, as of 1998, all children who complete the fifth grade
will continue through the eighth grade. More generally, the law will require that all of the 6.9 million children who
are currently enrolled in grades I through 5, and all children who start school in the future will remain in school
through completion of the eighth grade. The Law does not require that children of basic-education age who have
already left school return to school, but it is expected that many who have recently left will do so. The Government
has recently introduced an open education program, using distance learning methods, to provide core basic
education skills to young people over 15 years old who have dropped out of basic education.
The Nature of the Challenge
Capacity Expansion. Extending the duration of compulsory education from five to eight years and reducing
crowding in existing schools requires a major expansion of school capacity -- particularly for grades 6 through 8.
The MONE estimates that 14.2 percent of the basic-school-age population -- a total of 1.5 million children -- is not
attending school. The actual number of children not attending school could be considerably larger than this.' In
most urban areas, school attendance is constrained primarily by inadequate classroom capacity, and inadequate
numbers of teachers. In rural areas, primary schools (grades 1 through 5) are generally available, but a beneficiary
assessment commissioned by the Bank in the Eastern and Southeastern provinces2 found that school attendance in
those regions is constrained by household poverty, public perceptions that educational quality in village schools is
low, and parents' unwillingness to send their children-particularly, their daughters-to schools outside the village,
Some rural classes also lack teachers, and almost all rural schools suffer from frequent teacher turnover because oi
the isolation and difficult teaching and living conditions in remote, rural schools. Some schools in the East andL
Southeast have been closed in recent years because of security risks, but many of these schools are being reopened.
as secure conditions are restored. In rural areas, there is a widespread shortage of capacity in the upper grades oi
basic education (grades 6 through 8), and parents often cannot afford to send their children away to school.
To address the classroom constraint, the Ministry proposes to construct nearly 3,900 new basic education schools,
and to add 15,300 classrooms to existing schools. Schools will also be designed to accomodate handicapped
children. To address the teacher constraint, the Ministry plans to recruit an additional 150,000 teachers and
inspectors for basic education schools, and to improve the attractiveness of rural schools by upgrading teacher
housing, and providing better financial incentives for teachers in hardship areas. It also plans to experiment with
teacher recruitment and assignment policies-which are currently administered centrally-to identify more effective
and efficient ways to deploy teachers in basic education schools.
Demand for Education. School capacity is not the only constraint to universal basic education in Turkey.
Beneficiary assessment conducted in preparation for the Basic Education Pilot Project found that primary school
attendance in many rural areas is constrained by factors which affect parental demand for education. Many parents
in rural areas in the East and the Southeast expressed reservations about their children's-and typically, their
daughters'-attending school because they felt that the education in their village school was of low quality, or
because they could not afford the cost (including foregone household work) of their children's school attendance.
The Program aims to address these demand constraints to basic education by visibly raising the quality of basic
education, providing material incentives to children from poor households the form of free school meals, student
uniforms, and textbooks, and improving the incentives for teaching couples to teach in rural schools. Under the
A recent study which uses the Ministry's enrollment figures for the 1993/94 school year by students' year
of birth (to eliminate overage students) estimates that the net enrollment ratio for the first five years of basic
education is 94.4 percent for girls and 99.8 percent for boys -- implying a total of 184,000 girls and 7,000 boys not
in school -- and net enrollment ratios for grades six through eight of 51.8 percent for girls and 78.0 percent for boys
-- implying a total of 953,000 girls not in school and 456,000 boys not in school. Ilkogretimde Okullasma Oranlari
ve Okul Disinda Kalan Cocuklar, by Prof. Dr. Yuksel Kavak, 1997. The Ministry's enrollment figures for the
current (1997/98) school year record that there are 396,000 more boys than girls enrolled in the first five grades of
basic education than girls, suggesting an even larger number of out-of-school children in the first five grades of
basic education.
2      Factors Influencing School Attendance in Basic Education in Turkey, with Special Emphasis on Female
Participation, Professor Dr. Niyazi Karasar, November, 1991.



Page 5
Basic Education Pilot component of the National Education Development Project (NEDP), the Ministry upgraded
teacher housing in a number of remote village schools to make teacher housing units more comfortable and
attractive, with better heating, lighting, sanitary facilities, and basic furniture. Many of these units are now being
shared by young women teachers, who report that these improvements make their assignments more attractive and
materially improve their living conditions. The extensive improvements to rural teacher housing which are planned
under the Program are expected to make an important contribution to attracting and retaining qualified teachers in
village schools. Beyond this, improved cash incentives are being provided for teachers who serve in the most
remote and poorly equipped provinces. Under the information technology activity in the Program, the Ministry also
intends to develop an interactive system of professional support for teachers, which is expected to reduce the sense
of professional isolation which affects many teachers in village schools. To help overcome the handicap of low
household income, the Ministry is already providing special assistance, including free uniforms and textbooks, to
children in schools in low-income areas, and is in the process of developing a strategy which will address their
special educational needs. These programs are being expanded under the Program. In areas where school
attendance is a problem, the Program will also support school-based community activities, in order to make basic
education schools a resource of the community. These actions have been found in Turkey, and in other countries to
improve school attendance and learning achievement. The Program will also support an expansion of preschool
education to improve children's performance once they start school, and to increase the likelihood that children will
stay in school at least through eight years of basic education.
The Educational Basis for the Program. Many of the actions to improve basic education quality were developed by
the Ministry under the NEDP over the past seven years. These include programs for assessment of learning
achievement, curriculum development, in-service and pre-service teacher training, education management,
education planning, education materials production, and computer literacy and instruction. Although early
implementation of the project suffered from a number of problems, performance has improved markedly during the
past two years. The Basic Education Pilot component of NEDP has served as a pilot for key actions proposed for
extension under the Program, including: a) improved designs for urban schools, b) a comprehensive set of inputs to
village primary schools to make them more effective, and c) extensions of some village schools to include the upper
grades of basic education (grades 6 through 8), with provision for bussing students from surrounding villages. The
project amendment also included the extension of an early childhood development project for mothers and their pre-
school-aged children from low-income households. This pilot project has been found to be very effective in raising
children's educational performance once they start school, and in raising mothers' ability to provide for their
children's educational, nutritional, and health needs.
Program Phasing and Proposed APL Phasing.
The Government is committed to full achievement of the Program, including the quantitative goal of attaining full
enrollment of the basic education age group, and improving the quality of basic education in all basic education
schools throughout the country. Implementation of the Program will be carried out in at least three phases:
The Program Launch Phase will initiate implementation throughout the country by: i) strengthening central and
provincial capacity to implement the Program, ii) creating a mechanism to monitor and evaluate the medium-term
and long-term outcomes of the Program, and iii) undertaking the first wave of educational investments -- including
school construction and upgrading, teacher training, and provision of educational materials -- in each province to
achieve the objectives of the Program. The province-level investments made during the First Phase of the Program
address only the highest-priority educational needs in each province, such as school construction to provide capacity
in grades 6 through eight where none currently exists, and to decongest the most overcrowded classrooms in
existing basic education schools. They also equip two basic education schools in each subprovince to provide
computer literacy instruction, in order to serve as a model for other schools at subsequent stages of implementation.
The Program Consolidation Phase deepens the investment in improved school inputs at the province level, in order
of educational priorities. This work will make use of monitoring and evaluation carried out during the first phase on
the educational effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the investments carried out during the Program Launch
Phase.
Subsequent Phases will complete the investments necessary to achieve the Program's objectives.
The Program aims to provide training to all basic education teachers, principals, and inspectors each year, with
further elaboration of pedagogical content in successive years of Program implementation. Educational equipment
and materials comprise various packages of educational materials which will be provided to all schools during the
first phase of the Program, as well as some items-particularly, for information technology-which will be



Page 6
provided to schools throughout the Program, as staff are trained and facilities prepared for their use.
The total costs of implementing the Government's Basic Education Program were initially estimated at US$9.1
billion. On the basis of that estimate, the Government requested World Bank financing to meet the projected gap of
US$2.4 billion between the estimated total Program costs and the expected local financing, comprising US$ 4.9
billion in revenues from the new basic education taxes, US$0.2 billion from the general budget, US$1.1 billion from
provincial administrations, and $500 million from private contributions. Since the Government's initial request,
cost estimates for the Program have been revised to $11.3 billion, implying an even larger financing gap. Although
the Bank endorses the objectives of the Program, the scale of the Program calls for a nuanced application of APL
financing. Rather than requesting Board approval of the very major funding commitment which would be
necessary to significantly cofinance implementation of the entire Program, this proposal represents a more
conservative, progressive approach to financing the Program. The two APLs included in this submission cover only
the first two phases of Program implementation because of the need to assess the evolution of Turkey's debt service
capacity as Program implementation proceeds.
Under this submission, Board approval is sought for an APL commitment of US$600 million to support initial
implementation of the Program: an initial APL of US$300 million to support Phase I implementation of the
Program, as well as authorization for Regional management to process and approve a second, overlapping APL of
US$300 million to support continued implementation of the Program, as soon as specified performance goals are
met. Phase I of the Program comprises a spectrum of activities to launch the Program: i) the school building,
extensions, and improvements carried out under contracts awarded during the first year of the Program, ii) training
of teachers, school principals, and inspectors scheduled to be carried out during the first year of the Program, iii) the
provision of educational equipment and materials scheduled to be provided to basic .education schools during the
first year of the Program, iv) the development of central and provincial implementation capacity to carry out the
Program, and v) creation of a mechanism to monitor and evaluate the medium and long-term outcomes of the
Program.
An Adaptable Program Loan is an appropriate instrument for support of the Program because, while the Program's
objectives are firmly established by the Government and endorsed by the Bank, the activities of the Program will
evolve as the Program is implemented. Moreover, the external resource needs for Program implementation exceed
the financing available under a single loan. The Government is committed to launching implementation of the
Program without delay. Some Program activities are appraised, and are ready for financing under the first APL.
Others are under development, and would be financed by the second, or subsequent APLs. Waiting until the
activities in the second APL are fully appraised would entail an unnecessary delay in launching the first phase of the
Program, which the Government very much wants to avoid. This evolutionary nature of the Program and the APL
financing provides the advantage of flexibility for experimenting and making course corrections as implementation
proceeds. But it also implies the need for a more extensive involvement of the Bank during implementation than a
conventional investment project. In order to make the most productive use of the flexibility which the APL offers in
refining the design of the Program as implementation proceeds, and in order to maintain the Bank's professional
partnership across the full range of policy areas addressed by the Program, there will be a need for a continuous
professional partnership as implementation progresses. This work will involve elements of both supervision and
ongoing appraisal as the Program evolves. The Bank is committed to providing this partnership, and is making
arrangements to strengthen its field presence in order to provide this professional partnership on a continuous basis.
The First APL: The first APL would finance about 12 percent of the costs of implementing the first phase of the
Program-defined as activities either carried out or committed during the first year of the Program-plus two
longer-term activities for which an up-front commitment is needed: strengthened implementation capacity and
development of a suitable mechanism for monitoring and evaluation, including assessment of learning outcomes.
Although full implementation of these activities is expected to require three years, the bulk of it is expected to be
completed in the first eighteen months of Program implementation. The specific activities included in Phase I, and
the subset of those activities to be financed by the first APL are described under item C, below, and in Annexes 2
and 3.
The Second APL: Phase II of the Program consists of basic education investments to be carried out or committed
during the second year of Program implementation. Although some new activities may be added to the Program
during its second phase, the major elements of the Program are known and have been costed at $4.2 billion. A
second APL of $300 million would be appraised to help finance Phase II implementation, as soon as specified
performance goals for Phase I of the Program are met. The second APL is expected to finance the provision of
textbooks to rural and urban slum schools, school construction and upgrading, the expansion of computer literacy



Page 7
instruction, and further training of basic education personnel. Completion of Phase I implementation on the
proposed schedule will require external financing beyond this second APL. If implementation is satisfactory at that
stage and if the Government still desires further Bank assistance, a request for additional financing would be
prepared for Board consideration.
The Triggers for Moving to the Second APL: Seven key actions, described below, are proposed as triggers for
proceeding to the second APL. The first three involve important actions to improve teaching and learning
conditions in the schools with the greatest educational needs. The next one is essential for establishing a reliable
mechanism for monitoring the medium-term and long-term educational outcomes of the Program, and for
generating feedback on Program outcomes to improve Program effectiveness as implementation progresses. The
final three are designed to demonstrate the need for resources under the second APL, and the capacity to implement
the second APL effectively. These triggers for progressing to the second APL are designed to demonstrate up-front
the Program's commitment to eliminate the constraints to universal education, and to provide further financial
support for Program implementation when it is needed. Because implementation of the full Program will require
external resources beyond what these first two APLs could provide, preparation of a proposal for subsequent
financing would be launched in time to provide for uninterrupted financing, assuming that Program performance up
to that stage is satisfactory.
a.  Sign contracts or otherwise arrange for the provision of a basic package of educational materials,
satisfactory to the Bank, to all rural schools. Under the Basic Education Pilot Project, a basic package of
educational materials was provided to 274 rural schools in the East and Southeast. This activity materially
improved teaching and learning conditions in those schools, and in many cases appears to have led to
improved school attendance. A similar package of basic educational materials is to be provided to the
30,700 other rural schools under the Program. Making this activity a trigger for moving to the second APL
is designed to ensure that the least-well-equipped schools are among the first to benefit from the
investments in the Program. Most of the costs of this activity are to be financed under the first APL, but
some of the materials are expected to be donated by producers or private-sector sponsors. Loan financing
would be used if these donations fail to materialize as expected.
b. Contract for and achieve approximately 30 percent completion of facilities upgrading for about 200 village
schools in the provinces of Sirnak, Van, Mardin, Hakkari, and Bitlis (or other provinces as agreed with the
Bank). These provinces in the Southeast have the lowest rates of basic education school attendance, and
suffer from high teacher turnover and teacher absence due to the difficulties of teaching and living in that
environment. Under the Basic Education Pilot Project (BEPP), 15 rural schools were upgraded to provide
more attractive and functional teacher housing, more effective teaching and learning conditions for
classrooms, and better physical amenities for students. The improvements to these 200 schools under the
first APL will be planned in consultation with teachers and the community, in order to maximize
community ownership. These actions are expected to help attract and retain qualified teachers for remote
rural schools.   They are also expected to lead to better school attendance and better educational
performance. The Government plans to upgrade about 70 percent of the 30,700 rural schools under the
Program. Some of this work is included in the Government-financed program which has already started.
Continuation of this work is expected to be financed under the second APL. The reason for including this
action among the triggers is to ensure that this work is initiated from the start of the Program and is carried
out to quality standards which will maximize the potential impact in attracting and retaining qualified
teachers to these schools. Upgrading these 200 schools to the same standards as the BEPP schools is
expected to serve as a model for upgrading other rural schools in the next phase of Program
implementation.
c. Implement the agreed program of inservice training for teachers, school principals, and inspectors. Under
the BEPP, the Ministry of Education developed a program of in-service training for teachers, principals,
and inspectors in the 274 rural pilot schools, to equip teachers to deal more effectively with the special
teaching challenges which they face in that environment. Under the Program, the Ministry of Education
plans to provide a similar program of training throughout the basic education system to make teachers
better teachers and to make school inspectors and school principals change agents for the educational
innovations which are planned under the Program. This program has been discussed and agreed with the
Bank. Implementation of the first phase of the agreed training program is to be financed by the first APL
and implemented as a condition for progressing to the second APL.



Page 8
d. Carry out the agreed monitoring and social assessment program, including the basic education public
information campaign. The monitoring and assessment component will provide vital information on
medium-term and long-term Program outcomes in terms of objective quantitative and qualitative
indicators, and public perceptions of its effectiveness. Developing this monitoring capacity up-front is
vital to the longer-term viability of the Program. A detailed program of activities has been agreed for the
monitoring and assessment component, including impact studies which are to be commissioned and carried
out prior to the first joint review of Program implementation, scheduled for May, 1999. This program
provides an objective basis for determining whether the implementation of this activity is on track.
e.  Develop the school infrastructure program for the second phase of the Program according to criteria
satisfactory to the Bank. The second-phase infrastructure program, which is expected to be financed under
the second APL, is to be developed according to criteria which ensure the suitability of school
construction, upgrading and extension in terms of cost-effectiveness of designs, cost-effectiveness of the
particular types of structure proposed, and educational priorities (focusing on school upgrading to improve
school attendance and teacher retention, and creation of additional capacity to accommodate expected
enrollment increases). The Program calls for the construction of 1,512 basic education schools and 46,944
classrooms during the second phase of implementation. Clearly, the second APL could finance only a
modest fraction of this program. The action specified in this trigger refers to the criteria for selecting the
type of school investments to be undertaken and the standards embodied in the prototype designs for
schools. These activities are, by nature, scale free: they need to be carried out regardless of the size of the
infrastructure program.
f. Finalize specifications and bidding documents for the second phase of information technology
procurement, as agreed with the Bank. The Ministry and the Bank are currently examining the feasibility
of several options for the second phase of information technology (IT) procurement, including the
possibility of leasing, and supply through a consortium of hardware and software suppliers. Specifications
for the second phase of IT procurement are to be finalized on the basis of the findings of this investigation,
as well as the early lessons of the first phase of IT procurement, prior to proceeding with the second APL.
g. Disburse or commit at least 60 percent of the first APL. At least US$ 180 million of the first APL is to be
disbursed or committed-i.e., contracted for-prior to proceeding with the second APL.
The proposed APLs overlap because of the nature of the activities to be financed. The first APL would finance
about 12 percent of the costs of implementing the first phase of the Program-defined as activities either carried out
or committed during the first year of the Program-plus two longer-term activities for which an up-front
commitment is needed: assessment of learning outcomes, and monitoring and evaluation.  Although full
implementation of these activities is expected to require three years, the bulk of the work is expected to be
completed in the first year of Program implementation. In order to maintain implementation momentum, financing
under the second APL would need to be available well before the completion of activities launched and contracted
for in the first phase. In particular, contracts for school construction which are to be financed under the second APL
would need to be signed by early 1999 in order for the schools to be ready for use in September, 1999. Overlapping
fmancing is essential in order to avoid a delay in implementation under the country's stated implementation
schedule.
Implementation Period
Because of the timing of the enrollment increases expected under the new Basic Education legislation, the Ministry
aims to implement the school expansion over the next three years. Actual implementation of some aspects of the
Program could take longer than that. The scale of school infrastructure needs for the next three years implies a pace
of construction which is at least five times greater than any prior construction program. There are three reasons why
implementation of the Program is likely to improve on past performance: i) the unprecedented level of Government
and public commitment to the Program; ii) the high priority that provincial governors are attaching to the
Program-many are diverting specialist staff from other activities to help with implementation and will continue to
do so; and iii) the willingness of the central Ministry to engage substantial consultant assistance to help manage
implementation of civil works and information technology, the largest investment activities in the Program.
Even so, the Ministry's implementation schedule for the Program is very compressed. The possibility remains that



Page 9
implementation of some Program activities and achievement of the Program's quantitative and qualitative goals
may take longer than the Ministry foresees. Some activities under the Program are also longer-term activities by
their very nature, such as monitoring of learning outcomes. For these reasons, the Bank projects a more protracted
implementation schedule for the Program than the Government. Implementation of the initial APL is projected to
require three years, starting with effectiveness in July, 1998; implementation of the second APL is projected to
require three years, starting early in 2000. In any case, the timing of disbursements and the processing of the second
APL, as well as the processing of subsequent financing for the Program, will depend upon the actual pace of
implementation of the activities which the APL is financing, and the actions which serve as triggers for the second
APL. Implementation and disbursement of the first APL and the initiation of the second APL could occur sooner or
later than this schedule projects, depending upon the actual implementation performance of the Program.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Program will support a range of initiatives to achieve the goals of the Government's basic education strategy.
The design of the Program reflects an awareness that needs differ in different areas of the country. Where school
capacity is the major constraint, the Program will extend capacity, through a large-scale teacher recruitment and
teacher training effort, and major investments in additional school capacity, particularly in grades 6 through 8.
School construction under the Program will apply new school prototypes which: a) provide for the integration of the
former primary and middle-school cycles, b) are cost-effective, c) are educationally more effective than earlier
school designs, and d) are more adaptable to the needs of different regions and applications than the Ministry's
former school designs. Where other factors appear to constrain the achievement of the strategy, particularly, in
areas of the country with low rates of school attendance and high illiteracy rates, the Program will support initiatives
to address those needs. Program performance will be evaluated and monitored to exploit the potential richness of
this natural experiment, and to help improve the effectiveness of the Program as implementation progresses.
Initiatives which are evaluated as successful and cost-effective will be expanded.
C: Program Description Summary
1. Program Components
The Program comprises a broad spectrum of activities which promote the objectives of improved coverage, quality,
and relevance of basic education, and the role of basic schools as a learning resource for the community. These
comprise four Program components, each of which includes several activities. (See Annex 2 for a detailed
description of Program components, and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown, and Annex 5 for the Government's
description of the Program):
a. Expanded Basic Education Coverage, which will support the training and recruitment of additional
teachers and the design, construction, expansion and upgrading of basic education schools.
b. Improved Basic Education Quality, which will support in-service training for teachers, inspectors, and
school principals, provision of textbooks and educational materials for basic education schools, the
provision of hardware, software, and training for information technology in basic education schools, and a
number of other initiatives designed to improve the quality of basic education.
c. Program Implementation Support, which will provide equipment and technical assistance for
implementation management, including maintenance of Program accounts.
d. Monitoring and Evaluation, which will assess the outcomes of the program against several categories of
performance indicators, and provide continuous feedback to the Program Coordination Team (PCT) and
the related line units of the Ministry to improve the effectiveness of the Program in meeting its objectives
as implementation progresses. This component also includes support for a Monitoring Response Facility to
implement recommendations for school-based initiatives, and public media efforts to promote compliance
with and support for the Basic Education Program.
Bank resources will be used selecti'vely to help finance implementation of the Program, and will focus on four
categories of activities: a) activities which will be carried out or committed early in the Program-for the most part,



Page 10
during the first year of Program implementation, b) activities which promote Program objectives among groups with
the lowest basic education enrollments (such as provision of educational materials to village schools), c) activities
which experience suggests will be essential for successful implementation (such as technical assistance for
management support), and d) activities in which the Bank has a comparative advantage based upon experience in
other countries (such as educational applications of information technology). Although the financing plan has not
yet been established for the second APL, the same criteria are expected to apply. The choice of Program activities
to be financed under the initial APL was also constrained by two other considerations: i) the prospect of obtaining
grant financing for some key Program activities-notably, the initiative to supply free educational materials, school
uniforms, and school meals to needy children; and ii) the Government's view that some Program activities need to
move ahead on a very accelerated schedule, which does not allow time for procurement under Bank-approved
procedures. As a result, Bank financing will not be used to support the $1.5 billion program of school construction
under Phase I of the Program, but is expected to help finance subsequent school construction carried out according
to Bank guidelines.
FIRST-PHASE PROGRAM ACTIVITIES, COSTS AND FINANCING UNDER THE FIRST APL
Provinclal
The Government  AdmInlstration   The World Bank   National Donor      Totml
Amount    %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %            Amount    %
A. Phase I
1. Expanded Basic Education Coverage
a. Constructlon and Upgrading of Baslc Education Schools  1,247.4    84.7   24.6  1.7   48.4  3.3   151.8    10.3   1,472.2    58.5
b. Teacher Training and Recrultment                 650.0   100.0      -       -           -       -           -     650.0    25.8
Subtotal Expanded Baielc Education Coverage         1,897.4    89.4    24.8    1.2   48.4      2.3   151.8     7.2   2,122.2    84.4
2. Improve BaBlc Education Quality
a. In.service Training Programs                       5.8    15.7              -    31.2    84,2       -       -      37.0     1.5
bu Educational Materials                             44.1    471     2.0      21    47.6    50.8       -       -      93.7    3.7
c Information Technology                             28.8    14.6    14.8    7.5   154.0    78.0       -             197.6     7.9
d. Assesament of Leaming Outcomes                     0.1    15.8              -     0.7   84 3        -       -       0.9       -
5N.2tc4al Improve Basic Educs'on Quality               78.8   24 C.   16 8     5.1   233.5    7) 9       -       -     329.1    13.1
3. Program Implementatlon
a. Iogram Management Team                            42,4    95.9              -     1.8    4.1                -      44.2    1.8
b. EMIS/School Mapping                                0,6    14.8    0.3    7.6    3.0    77.8         -       -       3.9    0.2
Subtotal Program Impiementatlon                       42.9    89.3    0.3    0.6    4.8    10.1          -       -      481      1 9
4. Monitoring and Evaluatlon
a. Social Assesament, Monitoring and Studies          0.6    156.              -      3.0    84.3      -       -       3.5    0.1
b. Monitoring Response Facility                       1.6   16.4                     8.4   83.6        -              10.1     0.4
c. Basic Education Promotion                          0.3    15.7              -     19    84.22 2                             0.1
Subtotal Monitoring and Evaluation                     2.5    16.1       -            13.2    83.9       -       -      15.8     0.6
otal Dlsbursement                                     2,021.7    80.4    41.7    1.7   300.0    11.9   151.8    6.0   2,515.2   100.0
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
The first phase of Program implementation is defined as Program activities either carried out or committed during
the first year of the Program, plus two longer-term activities for which an up-front commitment is needed:
strengthening central and provincial capacity to implement the Program, and monitoring and evaluation-including
assessment of learning outcomes. These activities are summarized in the following table, and described in detail in
Annex 2. The first APL will finance: a) in-service training of teachers, school principals and inspectors, b)
provision of a basic package of educational materials to 25,900 five-year village schools and a somewhat more
extensive package of educational materials to all 4,800 eight-year schools in rural areas, c) upgrading of about 200
five-year village schools, including improved teacher housing and physical amenities, in five provinces with the
lowest rates of school attendance and largest class sizes,l upgrading of about 100 eight-year rural schools in another
group of five provinces with low rates of school attendance, d) upgrading of about 40 basic education schools in
urban slums in Ankara province, e) upgrading and equipping of computer rooms in 2,828 basic education schools
in all 80 provinces of the country, e) assessment of learning outcomes, f) monitoring and evaluation activities, and
g) implementation support. With the exception of items e and f, all are scheduled for implementation or start-up
during the first year of Program implementation
I        Sirnak, Van, Mardin, Hakkari, and Bitlis (or other provinces, as agreed with the Bank).
2        Kocaeli, Yalova, Batman, lgdir, and Bartin.



Page II
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Program:
The most fundamental policy change which the Program will support is the application of initiatives to increase
the demand for education among children who -u rently have low school attendance. This represents an
explicit recognition that universal school attendance equires more than availability of school places and laws
requiring school attendance. These demard-side ini; .tives will be expanded judiciously under the Program,
and their results will be monitored and e, aluated for lessons to guide future implementation. These actions are,
by nature, targeted to the poorest groups 'n the society, and their success (or failure) is likely to have an
important bearing on future strategies for poverty reduction in Turkey.
The second policy change which the Program will support (as an instrument for promoting better school
attendance) is the development of the basic education school as a resource of the community. As a long-term
goal, the Ministry intends to do this by broadening the programs of basic education schools to include early
childhood development activities, adult literacy education and self-enrichment courses for adults, as well as
updating of tie basic education curriculum itself-particularly, in the areas of computer education and foreign
language training. It implies a major change in how schools are managed-a new departure which will be
gradually developed and experimented with under the Program. The extension of preschool education is
expected to incorporate some of the pedagogical innovations which have been found effective in the
Mother/Child program, which is supported by the Bank under the NEDP. International experience shows that
activities to involve communities in the activities of basic education schools are management intensive. Here,
too, the Program will start small and concentrate on achieving success in a limited number of schools before
attempting to generalize the model. NGOs could play a valuable role in helping to do so.
The implementation model for the Program gives the provinces a lead role in assessing and solving their
educational problems, and provides ample support to develop that capacity in the weaker provinces. The
Program also provides training for strengthening diagnostic, management, and problem-solving capacity of
education officials at th, piovince and sub-province level.
The Program will seek improved efficiency and effectiveness of educational resource use through, inter alia,
the application of improved school prototypes to accelerate school construction and improve the effectiveness
of schools, and experimentation with new teacher incentives and teacher assignment procedures to improve
gradually the efficiency of teacher deployment. The initiatives to address the demand constraints to school
attendance will yield greater efficiency in resource allocation and use. The introduction of assessment of
learning outcomes, improved management information and assessment, and improved education planning,
monitoring and evaluation under the Program are also expected to lead to long-term gains in efficiency and
effectiveness of education programs. For example, the application of better information on school effectiveness
through assessment of learning outcomes and management information, could provide a basis for eventual
fundamnental changes in how schools are managed and financed.
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct beneficiaries are expected to be the young people who will complete basic education under the
Program, and the basic education students who will benefit from better educational materials, more motivated
and more qualified teachers, less crowded classrooms, and the updated curriculum. Teachers will also benefit
from the improved training and incentives. Indirect beneficiaries of the Program include the mothers of
children who are better equipped to provide for their children's health, education, and nutritional needs because
of the Program. The Program will target the regions and groups with the lowest school attendance and
educational performance in basic education -- in particular, girls in the East and Southeast, and children from
poor gecekondu households. Provincial education administrations will also benefit from strengthened capacity
to diagnose, implement and manage programs to meet their needs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Program Management. Because the Government sees basic education as a fundamental public service,
guaranteed under the Constitution, it wishes to implement the Program as much as possible within the existing
public administrative structure. Implementation responsibility is to be shared by the Ministry of National
Education and the provincial administration. As described in the following paragraphs, lead roles will differ,
depending on the nature of the activity. Overall management of Program implementation at the central level
will be carried out by the existing management infrastructure of the Ministry, under the direct responsibility of
the MONE Undersecretary, and the coordination of a Program Coordination Team which has been established



Page 12
in the MONE, headed by a Deputy Undersecretary with full-time responsibility for oversight of the Program.
The Program Coordination Team will comprise five units, staffed with seconded MONE staff and consultants,
respectively responsible for civil works, information technology, educational interventions, monitoring and
evaluation, and Program administration. Policy guidance is to be provided by a Program Steering Committee
comprising heads of the relevant MONE Directorates. At the province and subprovince level-there are 80
provinces and 921 subprovinces-the Program is to be implemented under the authority of the provincial
Governors and the Kaymakams (subprovince governors), with the Provincial Education Directors playing the
lead technical role on educational matters. The provincial Governor will call upon other elements of the
provincial administration to implement particular parts of the Program, as necessary-particularly, in the area
of school construction.
School Construction, Extensions, and Upgrading. Normally, school construction, extensions and upgrading is
carried out by the provinces, according to implementation plans approved first by the Ministry's Research,
Planning and Coordination Council (APK), then by the State Planning Organization and the Ministry of
Finance. Because of the vast scale of school construction and upgrading which is to be carried out under the
Basic Education Program, the Ministry of National Education and the provinces have adopted a new
implementation formula, under which the provinces and the central Ministry share responsibility for
implementing school infrastructure investments.  The provinces are responsible for identifying their
infrastructure needs, and prepare initial proposals for school construction, upgrading, and extension, according
to criteria established by the Ministry. Then responsibility for implementation is divided between local
administration and the central Ministry. The provinces and subprovinces will be responsible for extensions and
upgrading of existing basic education schools, while the Ministry of National Education is to manage centrally
the construction of new schools, with the assistance, initially, of four regional teams of civil works management
consultants.
For the school construction, extensions, and upgrading, which will be carried out under the second and third
phases of the Program, and which are expected to be partially financed by the Bank, a new group of consultants
will be selected in consultation with the Bank and in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Since the
school infrastructure expansion program is expected to comprise about 50 percent new construction, and about
50 percent extensions and upgrading of existing schools, this division of labor shares the task of implementing
the school infrastructure portion of the Program equally between the central MONE administration and the
provinces. Construction of new schools under the Program will be managed by the Ministry's Department of
Investments and Construction, under the coordination of the Infrastructure Unit of the Program Coordination
Team. School extensions and upgrading will be managed by provincial Governors, also under the coordination
of the Infrastructure Unit of the Program Coordination Team. Although the main responsibility of the four
regional teans of civil works consultants is to prepare site-specific designs and to supervise the construction of
new schools, the consultants will also provide assistance to the provinces as needed for the implementation of
school extensions and upgrading, as determined by the Infrastructure Unit of the Program Coordination Team.
Information Technology. The computer education portion of the Program will be implemented centrally, by the
Information Technology Unit of the Program Coordination Team, comprising staff of the Ministry's General
Directorate for Educational Technologies (ETGEM), and consultants engaged under the Program. Terms of
reference for the Unit and its key consultants were agreed at appraisal. To the greatest possible extent, the
Ministry will make use of its existing capacity in IT, specifically the NEDP Project Coordination Unit for
procurement of hardware and software, and ETGEM for supporting, evaluating, and monitoring the use of
computer laboratories in schools. The team will include well qualified IT professionals, including a full-time
manager with project management, education sector, and IT industry experience. An education technology
specialist will be hired to provide informed, independent, expert advice to the Director of the Program
Coordination Team, and to participate in the annual Program reviews.
Educational Interventions. With the exception of computer education, the interventions under the quality
improvement component of the Program are to be managed by the respective line units of the Ministry -- basic
education, teacher training, preschool education, etc. -- under the coordination of the Educational Unit of the
Program Coordination Team.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Implementation of the monitoring and evaluation of the Program is to be managed
by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the Program Coordination Team. Monitoring and social impact
assessment are critical for guiding Program implementation and for shaping the partnership between the client



Page 13
and the Bank through various phases of the Program. The evaluation of monitoring results will be undertaken
routinely by the Ministry and the Bank. Input and process monitoring efforts will be carried out primarily by
the Program Coordination Team within the MONE, in coordination with relevant departments and provincial
offices, while impact monitoring will largely be carried out by contracted external institutions and individuals.
The results of monitoring efforts will be evaluated in annual joint reviews of Program implementation, to be
held in May of each year by the MONE and the Bank, with the participation of national and international
experts. In addition to the flexibility of predefined activities, the Program includes a small Monitoring
Response Facility to allow for the implementation of pilot initiatives, developed  in the course of
implementation, to improve the responsiveness of the Program.
Program Administration.  Generic functions of reporting, dissemination, accounting, procurement, and
preparation of withdrawal applications for the Program are to be carried out by the Administration Unit of the
Program Coordination Team, based upon inputs from the provinces and the respective line units of the
Ministry. Terms of reference for the Unit and its key consultants were agreed at negotiations.
Retroactive Financing. Some of the actions under the Program were initiated prior to appraisal (May 6, 1998)
and are thus not eligible for financing under the APL. But many of the actions under the Program are
scheduled to be initiated between appraisal and effectiveness, which is projected to occur in mid-July, 1998. In
order to accommodate these initial expenditures for activities financed by the APL, retroactive financing of up
to US$30 million is provided in the APL for eligible expenditures incurred between appraisal (May 1, 1998)
and signature of the APL. Expenditures for retroactive financing could include all Program components
financed by the first APL and procured under agreed procedures, including upgrading of rural schools, training
of basic education personnel, provision of educational materials and equipment, and equipment, materials and
technical assistance to strengthen central and provincial implementation capacity.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Initially, conventional loan financing was foreseen for this operation. But the scale and the evolutionary nature of
the Government's Basic Education Program makes APL financing a more appropriate vehicle for World Bank
assistance. A series of APLs offers the Government the advantage of a longer-term commitment from the Bank to
support the Program, and provides the advantages of flexibility and a coherent framework for subsequent assistance.
An alternative approach to Bank financing was considered, in which Bank financing and disbursements would have
been limited to a single activity, such as computer hardware and software purchases. Although it would have
simplified disbursements, this option was not pursued because it would not provide the overall Program oversight
necessary to ensure that Program objectives are met.



Page 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                        Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)     Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
*  Upgrading of eight university-based  Industrial Training Project  Project Closed
technician training centers and the  (FY84)
development of in-service training
programs in industrial management.
*  Refurbishing and equipping of 48    Industrial Schools Project   Project Closed
secondary vocational schools and the   (FY84)
development of improved curricula and
textbooks for key specializations.
*  Upgrading of about 500 adult training   Non-Formal Vocational    Project Closed
centers and related program and    Training Project (FY87)
materials development.
*  Upgrading of 20 additional technician   Second Industrial Training     S               S
training centers.                  Project (FY88)
*  Development of improved teacher     National Education                 S               S
training programs, curricula, textbooks,  Development Project (FY89)
student assessment, and education
planning, and amended to include a
Basic Education Pilot Project.
*  Expansion of Industrial Training I                                     S               S
including technical teacher training and
tourism training.
Other development agencies
UNICEF worked closely with the MOE and the Bank in developing the Basic Education Pilot Project, and manages
implementation of the Rural Component of the Pilot Project on behalf of the MOE. Activities under this component
include educational materials development and teacher training for multigrade schools, and village school funds.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Both the educational elements and the hardware elements of the Program reflect the lessons and experience of past
projects. In particular, the Program will support the large-scale application of the educational activities and the
procedures for school design and school construction which were developed and found effective under the National
Education Development Project and the Basic Education Pilot Project. One of the lessons of the Basic Education
Pilot Project was that centralized procurement for school-based initiatives can undermine the sense of local
ownership which is crucial for enlarged parental involvement in schools. Thus, the school-based initiatives funded
under the Monitoring Response Facility will rely as much as possible upon local procurement. Another lesson was
that, while school-based activities which are meant to involve parents in activities to improve school attendance and
education quality can be effective in promoting those objectives and in providing broader benefits to the
community, they require considerable nurturing to ensure satisfactory results. For that reason, the Program includes
sufficient technical assistance to provide these time-intensive inputs when these activities are first launched in a
community.



Page 15
Two important lessons of past Bank projects with the Ministry of National Education are, first, that technical
assistance which is seen as forced upon the Ministry is not effective, and, second, that implementation models which
bypass line units of the Ministry may succeed in procuring equipment, but tend to fail in achieving their educational
objectives for want of ownership by key Ministry staff. In spite of the Bank's concerns about implementation
capacity during Program preparation, the Ministry feels very strongly that it must implement this Program through
its existing line units and the relevant ministerial offices at the province level. The design of the Program reflects
this concern, by relying upon the Government's own implementation structure, and providing ample resources for
technical assistance which the Ministry can draw upon quickly in areas where it feels it needs help. Performance
monitoring will also provide prompt Program management with prompt feedback on lagging areas of
implementation where help is needed.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Public support for the Basic Education Program has grown progressively over the past decade, and is now very
widespread. Voluntary contributions for the Program totaled over $500 million, including cash and in-kind
contribution, during the past year, and Parliament approved the Basic Education Law by a wide margin after a very
brief deliberation in August, 1997. This legislation included the exceptional provision of special earmarked excise
taxes for the Program, which are expected to raise US$5.6 billion in revenues over the next three years.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government will initiate the Program on the proposed schedule whether or not it has the support of the Bank.
The Bank's involvement would help ensure that the Program embodies the best practice worldwide in addressing
the educational objectives of the Program-particularly, in raising the school attendance and performance of the
groups with the greatest educational needs. Other planned Bank initiatives are also expected to help achieve the
objectives of the Basic Education Program.
The Bank has worked closely with the Ministry of National Education over the past seven years to raise awareness
of the need for this Program, and to develop its content. In addition to providing supplementary financing which
the Government desires for this operation, Bank support would provide the benefits of international experience with
design and implementation of large-scale investment programs to expand education coverage and improve the
quality of education.
In the course of Program preparation, the Bank worked closely with the Ministry to develop a more cost-effective
model for expanding school capacity. These efforts have already brought gains in cost-effectiveness, both in terms
of school construction standards and the mix of types of schools to be built under the first phase of the Program.
There is room for further improvements in cost-effectiveness of the infrastructure component as Program
implementation progresses.  The work of the Monitoring and Evaluation component, including the cost-
effectiveness study, will help maintain the effort to improve cost-effectiveness as Program implementation
proceeds.
E: Summary Program and Project Analysis
1. Economic
The research evidence based on both macro- and micro-level data in Turkey confirms the major contribution of
expanded basic education to aggregate economic performance and personal earnings (Annex 4). Rates of return for
education quality improvement are intrinsically more difficult to estimate than for expansion of enrollments.
Nevertheless, there is evidence of significant gains to improved quality of basic education. A recent analysis of the
benefits of computer literacy training, based on observed earnings differentials for computer-literate and non-
computer-literate workers and on the cost of employer-provided training, estimates a very high benefit/cost ratio for
the computer literacy investments under the Program. Evaluations of home-based preschool education programs in
Turkey have documented significant and enduring benefits in terms of improved school attendance and
performance.
2. Financial
There are major recurrent budget implication of the various interventions which the Program will support to expand
and improve basic education. In many applications, there are several options-school extensions, new schools,



Page 16
bussing, multiple-shift schools, boarding schools, etc.-which would promote the desired result, but which differ
significantly in terms of investment costs, recurrent costs, and educational effectiveness. Existing information,
including the experience of the Basic Education Pilot Project, has been used in the planning of the Program. But it
will be very important to refine this information as the Program is implemented in order to adjust the mix of
Program interventions to maximize educational effectiveness and minimize investment and recurrent costs. This is
the role of the economic analysis and the strengthened school planning which are to be carried out under the
Program.
3. Technical
Textbooks. There is an issue of textbook selection and textbook approval which needs to be resolved before
textbooks are provided to schools under the Program. In general, parents purchase textbooks for their children's use
in school, but low-income parents in most rural areas and in some urban slum areas cannot afford them. Most
children in rural schools and many in urban slum schools do not have textbooks. To address this problem, the
Ministry is in the process of providing textbooks for children whose families cannot afford to buy textbooks. This
support will be extended under the Program. Financing of this initiative is planned for the second APL, in order to
allow time for resolution of issues of textbook selection and approval.
Educational Effectiveness of School Investments. There are inevitable tradeoffs involved in the choice among
different types of school investments, which have major implications for both cost-effectiveness-see item F,
"Sustainability and Risks"-and educational effectiveness. These will need to be carefully considered as Program
implementation proceeds. In urban areas, there are important choices to be made between smaller schools which are
closer to the communities they are intended to serve, and larger schools with lower unit costs, but possibly lower
educational effectiveness. In spite of the compulsory nature of basic education under the new law, some parents
may not be willing to send their children to more distant schools, although these may be cheaper and easier to
provide. Parental participation is also less likely to be successful for large and more distant urban schools than for
smaller, neighborhood schools. In rural areas, the Program aims to provide the needed additional capacity-
particularly, in grade 6 through 8 -- through a combination of improvements to existing village schools and
extensions and improvements to centralized bussing schools in rural areas. In general, the Ministry prefers this
strategy over an approach which would provide a complete eight-year basic education in as many villages as
possible (by upgrading schools in each village and adding capacity in grades 6 through 8), because it considers that
it is easier and cheaper to provide high-quality basic education in larger, centralized schools-especially, under the
Ministry's new policy of offering subject-based teaching (rather than classroom based teaching) beginning in grade
five. Because it would relocate the schooling venue for some children, this policy is likely to lead to smaller
numbers of children enrolled in many village schools. The Program will monitor very closely the educational
effectiveness, as well as the cost effectiveness of the various Program interventions to expand the coverage of basic
education. Where the chosen approach appears not to be working or to be unnecessarily costly, the monitoring and
evaluation process will flag the problem to the management of the Program and to the Bank for corrective action.
Program Priorities. Among the Ministry's plans under the Program are to eliminate multiple-shifting and to reduce
class sizes to 30 students per class in all basic education schools. Although there is scientific evidence that very
large class sizes discourage school attendance and make it difficult to offer quality education, the gains from smaller
class size are not continuous. Ever-smaller class sizes do not lead to continuing gains in the quality of education
and learning achievement. The Program target of 30 students per class appears reasonable, but it will be important
to monitor the educational gains and cost-effectiveness of this policy as the Program is implemented. investrnents
in smaller class size are clearly warranted for classes which are currently above 50 or 60 students per class, but
further investments to reduce class size may not be warranted in terms of better learning outcomes. The same
consideration applies to the Ministry's plan to eliminate multiple-shift use of basic education schools. In planning
school investments under the Program, the highest priority should be given to ensuring that all children of basic
education age are in school. This question of priorities has particular importance because of the scale of effort
which would be required to achieve the Ministry's goals of reducing class size and eliminating double shifting. The
investments in new classrooms required to achieve these goals are almost as large as the total infrastructure
investments planned under the Program -- in excess of $7 billion -- whereas the investments to provide the needed
additional capacity in grades 6 through 8 and to rehabilitate rural schools amount to less than a third of this amount.
Here, too, monitoring and evaluation are to play an important role in fine-tuning the Program as it proceeds.
Although the first APL is not financing new school construction, the Government has requested that subsequent
loans do so. In order to be able to do so, the criteria for building new schools or extending existing schools under
the second and subsequent phases of the Program would need to reflect this priority.



Page 17
4. Institutional
Teacher Deployment. The expansion of basic education envisioned under the program will require the deployment
of about 190,000 new basic education teachers and administrative and support personnel. Unless appropriate
incentives are provided and institutionalized, there is a likelihood that a significant number of teaching positions
will remain unfilled. The Program is addressing this risk by providing more attractive salary supplements for
teachers in difficult teaching conditions, and by experimenting with new procedures for teacher recruitment and
assignment which give provinces a greater role. The effectiveness of these measures will be monitored under
Program implementation, and further measures will be developed, if necessary, to ensure that all basic education
classes have qualified teachers.
5. Social
The project proposes major remedies to reduce interregional, urban/rural, gender and other social imbalances in
access to quality basic education. Poverty, both at the household and at the community level, is closely linked to
educational opportunities. The Program explicitly aims at improving the access of poor households to eight-year
basic education. To the extent that low household income is a constraint to school attendance, the Program aims to
improve school attendance by providing free textbooks and school uniforms to children from poor households.
Because of the link between perceived school quality and school attendance, the various initiatives under the
Program to improve the quality of basic education -- including the visible improvement of existing rural schools and
teacher housing -- are expected to contribute to improved school attendance. Other Program initiatives to develop
the school as a resource for the community and to expand preschool education are also expected to involve the
community more fully in their schools, and to contribute to better school attendance. The gains which the Program
achieves in school attendance will particularly benefit girls and the poor, because it is girls and children from poor
households who are most likely not to attend school.
The social risks of the Program can best be reduced through transparent Program implementation in which
mechanisms for continuous social assessment and social impact monitoring are brought together with facilities to
pilot innovative educational practices for improved targeting of the poor. Doing such assessment in a participatory
manner with the involvement of select segments of civil society, including the universities and research institutions,
and sharing the results of this effort widely, will reduce implementation risks. The basic education promotion
campaign which is included under the Monitoring and Evaluation component will also help build support for and
compliance with the Program.
6. Environmental
Environmental category:       []     A       [X]    B       []      C
Although the Program is very large, no significant environmental risks are foreseen, in view of the highly dispersed
nature of the Program. However, the baseline situation for new school sites will be reviewed under the Program and
mitigation measures will be identified and taken as required. Environmental standards for safety, waste disposal,
use of hazardous materials, esthetics and other aspects of the school construction program are codified in a
Handbook for Basic Education School Buildings which was developed with Bank assistance in preparation for the
Program. These standards have been reviewed by the Bank team, and found satisfactory. All buildings constructed
and rehabilitated under the Program will be required to comply with these standards. Government and Banks
supervision of Program implementation will ensure that these standards are respected.
No involuntary resettlement will be involved in Program implementation. The MONE has confirmed that no
involuntary resettlement will occur under the Program, and has instructed all of the provincial administrations, in
identifying sites for new schools under the Program, to select only sites which are vacant public lands owned by the
Ministry or the Treasury. Given the urgency with which the Government aims to complete the physical
infrastructure for the project, the Ministry is committed to avoiding land acquisition as this would require extensive
time for legally required consultations and court decisions. In case private contributions are made for school



Page 18
buildings, the MONE, from its own funds, would pay private individuals who will contribute their vacant land for
school building purposes, in accordance with the laws of Turkey.
7. Participatory Approach:
a primary beneficiaries and other affected groups.
The gains which the Program achieves in school attendance will particularly benefit girls and the poor, because it is
girls and children from poor households who are most likely not to attend school. Social assessment played an
important role in the design of the Program, and will play an even more important role during implementation.
During the preparation of the Program, the Ministry, the Bank, and other donors consulted widely with a range of
education stakeholders, including school administrators, teachers, students, local   governments,  local
representatives of central government as well as the media. A systematic survey and two participatory seminars
organized in late 1997 and early 1998 aimed to identify the educational issues as perceived by local administrators
of the relevant ministries. The results of this work are incorporated in the management design of the Program. The
results of consultations with teachers are included in new incentive mechanisms which were recently established.
Large-scale, systematic surveys were also conducted with 5% of all teachers, 10% of administrators, and 1% of
parents and students. A total of 15,000 respondents were interviewed to seek their assessment of each component of
the proposed Program. The results of these consultations are reflected in various aspects of the Program design --
for example, the provision of facilities for handicapped students in basic education schools, and entirely separate
boarding schools for girls in certain areas of the country.
The design of the Program reflects the findings of a beneficiary assessment of factors influencing girls' school
attendance in the East and Southeast which was commissioned by the Bank in 1991, in that it aims to raise school
attendance by providing better quality education, by expanding school capacity in grades 6 through 8, and by
measures to attract and retain qualified teachers. The design of the Program also reflects the lessons from numerous
studies conducted by the MONE and the evaluations of pilot projects implemented with the Bank, other donors, and
civil-society organizations. Subsequently, social impact assessments were carried out for the many pilot efforts that
have helped shape the Program, including the BEPP, NEDP, the Computer-Based Education School Pilot Project,
the Student Social Assessment Project, the Mother/Child Early Childhood Development Pilot Project, the Pilot
Project on the Education of Girls and Women, and the Regional Basic Education Boarding School Pilot Project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
See item 7a, above.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed investments will generate substantial incremental recurrent expenditures in the form of personnel
costs, and operation and maintenance costs of the new facilities. The full Program would require about 150,000
additional basic education staff-a significant increase from current levels. At current unit costs, this would raise
the real teacher salary bill from $1.3 billion currently to approximately $2.1 billion. In addition, the Program is
sponsoring the expansion of enrollments in bussing schools and boarding schools, whose unit costs ($494 and $761,
respectively) are considerably higher than unit costs in conventional schools ($272 per student). These changes will
add over $100 million to the annual cost of running basic education schools. The incremental maintenance/renewal
costs for the information technology equipment (estimated at 10% of the investment cost per annum) plus building
maintenance (estimated at 2% of construction investment costs) add up to another US$117 million annually, once
the new facilities are operational. The aggregate incremental recurrent cost of the entire Program amounts to over
$1 billion per year. Continued broad public support for the goals of the Program will be necessary in order to
mobilize and sustain these recurrent resources. The proposed approach of financing the Program in phases -- this
first phase represents less than a fifth of the total Program, and would generate incremental recurrent costs of about
US$130 million -- also provides a test of the durability of public support for the Program. Continuation of Bank
financing beyond this first phase will require continued broad support -- including budget support -- from the public
and the Government. The fact that the Program enjoys broad political and public support is expected to help ensure
the longer-term sustainability of the Program.



Page 19
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                       Risk    Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
*  The high expectations established by the    S      Establishment of a suitably staffed Program
Government's Basic Education Program              Coordination Team to coordinate specialized
could exceed the Ministry's implementation        consultant teams. Provision of undesignated
capacity.                                         TA resources to support Program
implementation as needs arise.
*  There is a risk that Program investments may  M    Training and software development will be
not be fully effective due to lack of             monitored as integral Program elements to be
complementary inputs (as training or              sure that they keep up with the needs of
educational software), or of the necessary        Program investments. The availability of
recurrent budget support.                         recurrent budgets will be monitored; the mix of
new school investments will be altered, if
necessary, to reflect recurrent budget
availability.
*  The information technology hardware and     M      The information technology activity provides
software provided under the Program could         for the renewal of hardware and software as the
suffer from rapid obsolescence unless             Program is implemented. Leasing arrangements
updated as the Program is implemented.            will also be explored as a means of reducing
this risk.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
*  The high-visibility components-notably,     M      The phasing of project financing will
school construction and information               demonstrate up-front the Government's
technology (IT) -- could displace the less-       commitment to educational equity. Close
visible but crucial educational and targeting     supervision by the Bank-as in agreeing on
initiatives under the Program                     criteria for specific school investments-will
also provide safeguards against imbalance in the
Program.
.  The flexibility inherent in the APL could  M       The monitoring and evaluation component-
provide room for unintended forms of              particularly, the social assessment-and
implementation, rather than promoting the         intensive supervision by the Bank (for which
desired responsiveness in pursuing Program        the Department is planning to relocate key staff
objectives.                                       to the field) will help ensure that the APL's
flexibility is used as intended.
*  Delays in procurement of IT hardware and    M      The Ministry will use all its existing IT
software could delay the offering of              capacity, including ETGEM and the project
computer instruction.                             coordination unit for the NEDP, to help with
implementation of the IT activity.
*  Suppliers for the information technology   M       IT procurement is to be divided regionally, with
resource centers may lack the capacity to         at least 3-year warranty contracts.
provide technical support to outlying
schools.
Overall Risk Rating               M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System):
Risk                     Type of  Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
Despite the Government's best efforts to induce  S        M       Social assessment and popular
compliance with its new compulsory eight-year                     participation activities under the
basic education policy (including an aggressive                   Program will monitor public
school promotion campaign, and improvements in                    perceptions of the Program and
school quality), some parents still may not send                  compliance with the Program,
their children-and especially their daughters-to                  and identify appropriate
school. The mix of school investments under the                   strategies for improving Program
Program-e.g., replacing some village schools                      equity and compliance.
with centralized bussing schools-could
unintentionally promote this outcome.
A lack of cooperation among the various elements  G       M       Leadership and personal
of the MONE which are involved in the Program                     involvement of senior
could undermine effectiveness of the Program.                     management of the MONE, and
the creation of a highly
motivated project team and
steering committee will facilitate
interministerial coordination.
Involvement of the appropriate
consultant support will also
minimize the likelihood that
Program implementation would
be frustrated by non-cooperative
behavior on the part of MONE
units.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (      Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management
capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions and Agreements Reached
1.     Agreements Reached at Negotiations:
Agreement was reached at Negotiations on the following items: a) the Government's Letter of Sector Policy, b)
revisions to the list of educational materials to be provided to rural schools under Phase I of the Program and
financed under the first APL, c) annual work plans for the Monitoring and Evaluation component, d) the program
for assessment of leaming achievement which is to be carried out under Phase I of the Program and financed under
the first APL, e) the technical specifications for information technology hardware and software for the 2,828
computer resource centers to be equipped during Phase I of the Program and financed under the first APL, f) terms
of Reference for the IT, Education, Monitoring and Evaluation and Administration Units of the Project
Coordination Team, g) performance indicators for Program implementation and h) use of Bank Procurement
procedures and documentation for National Competitive Bidding and procurement of Minor Works contracts.
2.     Dated Covenants:
The following dated covenants would be provided: a) that the Ministry would develop and provide to the Bank for
review by October 31, 1998 the proposed guidelines for implementation of the Monitoring Response Facility; b)
that the Ministry would provide annual progress reports on Program implementation by April 30 of each year; c)



Page 21
that the Ministry would conduct with the Bank by May 31 of each year a joint review of Program performance; and
d) that records of expenditures financed under the APL be audited by June 30 of each year by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.
He Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Mich el Mertaugh (ECSHD)
6cting Sector Director: James Socknat (ECSHD)
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber (EC



Annex I
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
TURKEY: BASIC EDUCATION PROGRAM
Naatt.v.. ..  S itK                    ftors .....M.t..                 ri. n.             to  r itil    PMWtAS
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                   (Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve universal coverage in eight-   * Progressive increase in basic  * SIS statistics   * Sustained political and
year basic education and improve     school enrollment rates to 100%.    * APK statistics   financial commitment to
education quality.                 * Progressive increase in learning  * ERDD assessments   the Basic Education
achievements.                     of learning           Program and
achievement          complementary social
and economic policies.
Program Development Objectives:   Program Indicators:
To achieve full coverage in eight-year  * The gap between boys and girls  * SIS statistics  * Support for the Program
basic education.                     enrollments is eliminated.       * APK statistics      is sustained.
a Transition rates between grades 5    * Social assessments   * Balance is maintained
Achievement of the Program goals    and 6 increase to 100%.           * ETGEM statistics     between high-visibility
will occur progressively, starting with   * Enrollment rates for preschool                   components (e.g. school
the highest priority needs:         increase from 7 to 16%.                                  construction and IT) and
the Program's less-
Phase I (APL1): Establish capacity                                                         visible educational and
to implement, monitor and evaluate                                                        targeting initiative.
the Program. Initiate investments to                                                     * The monitoring and
achieve Program objectives,                                                               evaluation component --
starting with the highest priority                                                        particularly social
needs.                                                                                     assessments - is used to
inform the design of
Phase 2 (APL2): Continue                                                                   subsequent phases of the
investments. Use feedback from                                                            Program.
monitoring process to improve
effectiveness of investments in
meeting Program objectives.
Phase 3 and Subsequent Phases:
Continue investment program until
Program objectives are fully met.
Use feedback from monitoring
process to improve effectiveness of
investments in meeting Program
objectives.
Project Development Objectives                                                            (Objective to Goal)
(Phase I):
Accommodate all 1998 grade 5      Actions to be taken before          * PCT reports.       * Implementation capacity
graduates in grade 6 in the 1998/99  commitment of APL2:              * Supervision and      of the MONE -- at the
school year and establish the capacity   * Arrange for the provision of an  appraisal missions.    central, province and
to implement, monitor and evaluate   agreed basic package of                                 sub-province levels is
the entire Program.                  educational materials to all rural                     strengthened.
schools.



Annex I
page 2 of 4
Y.y       M. P,tnacldkatWM          M lWlrg ad              Critieal Assump.44ioEu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              . .1. . . . . .. .  . r ,   , .. .   .   . . . . um
- . - ' i6> ........... i.!--;. ;. ............. O ' i: i > ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. , ,, .......... .... .. , , ;.,., . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ..... ... I
* Begin upgrading of 200 village                              * A suitably staffed PCT is
schools in Sirnak, Van, Mardin,                               established to cooriinate
Hakkari and Bitlis, or other                                  implementation of the
provinces agreed with the Bank.                               various Program
* Implement the agreed training                                 activities including
program for teachers, school                                  consultant inputs.
principals and inspectors.                                  * Consultants are engaged
* Begin implementation of the                                   as necessary to
monitoring and social assessment                              complement the
program.                                                      Ministry's
* Develop the school infrastructure                             implementation capacity.
program for the second phase of
the Program.
* Finalize specifications and bidding
documents for the second phase of
IT procurement.
* Disburse or commit at least 60% of
the first APL.
Project Outputs:                                                                                     (Outputs to Objective)
1. Capacity increased to provide      By the end of the entire Progra,n      * SIS statistics       * Effective coordinalion
universal coverage of eight year    * Construction of approximately        * APK statistics         between the PCT, MONE
basic education.                      3,500,000 new student places         * ERDD statistics         line units and provinces.
nationwide.                         * ETGEM statistics
* Rehabilitation of 35,000 existing   * PCT reports           * Program activities are
basic education schools in rural    * Social Assessments      well coordinated tc
areas.                              * Bank staff reports      ensure the availability of
(back-to-office        complementary inputs
By the end of Phase I:                  reports, mid-term       (e.g. training) to
* Construction of 450,000 new           reviews, ICR)           accompany investmnents
student places.                                               (e.g. computers).
* Rehabilitation of 300 existing
schools in rural areas.                                     * Educational and targeting
initiatives remain central
2. Improved teacher effectiveness.    By end Progran.                                                  on the Program agenda.
* The majority of teachers and                                * Subsequent phases of the
school principals participate in two                          Program are prepared and
weeks of effective in-service                                implemented
training per year.                                            successfully.
* All provincial administrators and
managers trained.
* 1,500 new inspectors hired and
trained.
By end Phase 1:
* 300,000 existing teachers and
30,000 new teachers participate in
in-service training programs.
* 3,000 school inspectors trained.



Annex 1
page 3 of 4
-,9 N,rrt.,ve Sunir        ;      e Perfrmu- Iniaor              Moiorn  an           Crtia   supti
lato     oEaluates
3. Improved equity of access to   By end Program:      .
educational materials.          * Textbooks provided free of charge
to all students in poor households.
By end Phase I:
* Education materials package
distributed to 25,900 rural schools.
* Social assistance program
implemented in village schools as
well as centralized bussing schools.
4. Integration of information     By end Progranv
technology (IT) into the        * Computer laboratories installed in
curriculum.                      nearly 15,000 schools.
* 18,000 IT coordinators
("formators") are trained.
* 200,000 education staff trained in
computer literacy and computer-
aided instruction courses.
By end Phase I:
* 2,800 IT rooms prepared and
equipped.
* The number of trained IT
coordinators is doubled.
5. Strengthened institutional capacity   By end Progranv
within the Ministry of National  * Channels for stakeholder
Education.                        consultation and systems for social
impact monitoring and evaluation
strengthened.
* Assessments of student leaming
achievements implemented.
By end Phase I:
* Monitoring and evaluation capacity
for the Program established.
* APK's MIS system for school
planning and management updated
and staff trained.
Project Components/Sub-           Inputs: (budget for each component)                   (Components to Outputs)
components (Phase I):-
1. Expanded Basic Education       US$2,033.9 million               PCT and Bank         * Human and financial
Coverage                                                         monitoring reports     resources are readily
* Construction of new schools                                   including:             available.
* Renovation and upgrading of                                   * financial          * Results of monitoring
existing rural and gecekondu                                    monitoring           and evaluation activities
schools.                                                      * disbursement         are integrated into
reports             Program planning.
2. Improved Basic Education Quality  US$302.2 million               * procurement       * No political interference.
* In-service training for education                               records            * Sustained support for the
personnel.                                                    * contracts            Program.
* Distribution of education                                     * audits
materials to rural schools.                                   * evaluation reports
* Upgrading and equipping of IT



Annex I
page 4 of 4
- -i~utf. r  -ey P m dnce I'd,cator,  Monitoring and     Crii, ica ' A    ivOon
..ii>4 ....f ..liii .. ...i .. .t,,iiS4i                                            i    ,, . . .Y  a   Io-;:
classrooms.
* Provision of school meals and
uniforms to children from poor
households.
3. Program Implementation Support   US$47.4 million
* Equipment and technical
assistance for implementation
management.
4. Monitoring and Evaluation      US$15.6 million
* Program progress monitoring
and capacity building
* Monitoring Response Facility
* Basic education promotion and
public relations campaign



ANNEX 1: ATTACHMENT 1
Turkey Basic Education Program
Performance Indicators and Program Criteria
I. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Monitoring and evaluation are particularly important in the education sector because of the need to spend
public funds efficiently and effectively, and because of the high priority that people give to education.
Monitoring and evaluation depend on having appropriate performance indicators, especially important in
the education sector where outcomes may take many years to have their real impact, as well as having a
process of assessing impacts through consultation and participation of those most affected --- students,
parents, and those working in the education sector. In the education sector, different categories of
project performance indicators have been developed to provide feedback in the short, medium and long
term.
Project input indicators show what the project intends to provide in terms of components such
as numbers of schools built, teachers trained, and equipment provided.
Project process indicators measure what actually happens during implementation and are
benchmarks against which progress can be measured. These indicators can be conceptually divided into
physical and financial aspects.
Project output indicators measure the output for each project component in comparison to
whether project goals are being achieved, and on good baseline data.
Project impact indicators illustrate development impact by measuring the impact of the project
on the Government's long-term education sector goals.
The MONE has made a commitment to monitor and evaluate the Basic Education Program
(BEP) on an ongoing basis with respect to input, process, output and impact indicators. These are
summarized below. Cost estimates, schedule of activities, and institutional arrangements are also
indicated.
(a)   Input indicators  will focus on civil works, computerization, and procurement of
educational materials. They will include:  (a) the establishment of prototype school designs and
specifications; (b) the pace of acquisition of sites and approvals necessary for construction; (c) the
construction of new schools, new classrooms in existing schools, teacher housing and student boarding
places in urban and in rural areas, by region; (d) the provision of quarterly progress reports on
construction by the construction management and supervision unit; (e) the amount of computer
equipment purchased, computer software and education materials developed; and (f) the elapsed time in
procurement processing for key project components.
(b)    Process indicators will provide an insight on general educational trends and will
include: (a) pre-school and basic education net enrollment by location (rural/urban and regional) and



Annex 1: Attachmeit I
page 2 of 4
gender; (b) drop out, transition and, completion rates of 8-year education by location and gender and the
distribution of students continuing to secondary education; (c) number of students per class by location;
(d) number of students per teacher/school administrator by location; (e) number of computer
classrooms in pre-determined standards by school and location; (f) number of computer literate students,
computer instructors by location; and availability of application software and software to support the
curriculum; (g) number of months allocated for in-service training programs; (h) number of trainees
attending adult education courses by location and gender; and (i) number of children in need of support
through the social assistance programs. Public support and commitment, as measured by public opinion
surveys, will also constitute an important process indicator in defining the participatory potential of the
project.
Cost effectiveness is an important element of the process of reforming any educational system.
The indicators to monitor cost effectiveness will include: (a) public expenditures per student by region
and type of settlement, schooling, and educational activity; (b) cost per graduate; (c) cost of
educational materials, newly constructed and rehabilitated school space per student by location; (d)
educational expenditures in relationship to other public expenditures, and share in GNP; (e) share of
students in private schools; and (f) citizen contributions by type and region.
(c)    Output indicators will reflect educational achievements and will be measured through a
number of standardized tests: (a) level of general education; (b) critical thinking: (c) level of math
knowledge; and (d) level of reading knowledge. The results will be monitored by region, settlement
type and gender. Output indicators will also focus on the trends with respect to teachers and schc,ol
administrators. Specifically, changes in societal trends that would help produce greater demand for
educational professions and increase excellence within the profession are of interest. Indicators would
include: (a) applications to faculties of education, number of students of basic education in absolute
and relative numbers; (b) demand for vacant teaching posts; (c) trends with respect to salaries and
other benefits of educators in comparison to other state employees and by location; (d) resignations and
retirements; and (e) the total number of teachers available by location, gender, type and level of
education of (teachers and administrators).
(d)    Impact indicators are of particular importance in guiding the implementation of the
Basic Education Program in the medium term and in the identification of innovative responses to
monitoring efforts. The MONE intends to assess the impact of Program activities with respect to the key
components of the Program. The impact monitoring activities aim at uncovering the perspectives of four
key stakeholders: parents; students; teachers; and education managers. They seek to identify the sociial
impacts of the Program at large and its select components on one, or more, of the stakeholder groups.
II. SOCIAL ASSESSMENTS
The following surveys and studies are proposed for implementation during the Program:
(i)    Basic attitudes of stakeholders. The main issue is to understand the attitudes, needs
and expectations of key stakeholders with respect to BEP and its components. To this end, a recent
baseline of administrators and students is available.  Equally important,  national participatory
assessments of all stakeholders have been completed. Attitudinal data are also available through socilal
assessment surveys for each of the stakeholder groups. The results of these surveys have already been
incorporated in the design of the Program. Nevertheless, each of the existing baselines are somewhiat
partial; thus a comprehensive baseline is an essential first step towards impact assessment. Baseline and



Annex 1: Attachment I
page 3 of 4
its updates will provide crucial information about stakeholder satisfaction with publicly provided
educational services and appropriateness of incentive structures created by the BEP.
(ii)    Topical Social Assessments aim at measuring BEP's effectiveness in selected areas of
concern to allow the formulation of adaptive solutions. Some of these assessments are listed below.
Others will be formulated as the need emerges and can be financed through the Monitoring Response
Facility (MRF) incorporated into the Program. Results of select activities funded under the MRF will
also be assessed.
*     Impact of pre-school education. An early assessment of the effectiveness of the
existing pre-school educational facilities is needed. This will include comparisons of privately and
publicly managed pre-school facilities/programs, an important input to the goal of the BEP to broaden
pre-school education to enhance the quality of basic education. A small scale learning effort is planned
that would rely heavily on in-depth participatory observational methods.
*     Impact of school based community programs. Currently, many schools are offering
programs to encourage participation of parents in schools, through literacy, crafts, and other training
activities. A stocktaking of these would be very important. For this purpose, a participatory study based
on a small sample of public and private (including NGO/CSO managed) programs will be compared.
The sample will be based on "successful" applications in order to maximize the lessons learned and to
incorporate them in broadening the community education component of the Project.
*     Impact of social assistance  activities:      Based  on  a small sample  of
communities/school/students who are recipients of social assistance support, and in cooperation with the
Social Assistance and Support Foundations at the provincial and country levels, an assessment of the
effectiveness of this component will be undertaken.  Many of the proposed social assistance
interventions are being introduced recently and will thus require regular monitoring to allow the
formulation and implementation of adaptive measures.
*     Working children and other groups in need of social assistance: Understanding and
responding to the needs of working children is a major challenge. Substantial social assessment data are
already available indicating that family expectations for children to contribute to household income
hinder children's ability to attend schools. Similarly, there is evidence of the pressure children face in
many families to enter the informal labor force or the household labor force at an early age. However,
there is little systematic information on the type and extent of work the children are involved in, and the
type of constraints they face as a result. Since responses have to be custom tailored to the needs and
constraints, a deeper understanding is needed. In addition, programs for children with disabilities (e.g.
blind children) will be improved, expanded and their effectiveness assessed.
*      Impact of rural/regional boarding schools, pension systems, bussing, and other
new elements. A substantive first year review of educational and social issues pertaining to boarding
schools, and current busing arrangements will also help guide Project-implementation. As central rural
schools are created, their early impact will also need assessment. These will be conducted in a timely
manner early in Program implementation through small scale in-depth studies.
*     Impact of the quality of school environment, reduction of class size and elimination
of double shift practices. The purpose of this study is to measure impacts of changes in the physical
school environment on key stakeholders. Once the first wave of school construction is completed and
students spend an academic year in these schools, a comparison of old and new school environments



Annex 1: AttachmenU l
page 4 of 4
will be undertaken in a controlled socio-economic environment. At the same time, the impact of the
reduction of class size on educational attainment will be assessed. Likewise, effects of the gradual
elimination of double shifting will be evaluated.
(iii)   System-wide and macro development impacts of BEP.  It will be of utmost
importance to be able to demonstrate the long-term developmental impacts of the medium term Program
initiated by the Government. However, these impacts require a longer time perspective to be visible.
Therefore, it is proposed that two preparatory activities will be carried out during the first phase of
Program implementation to lay the foundations for the study of these impacts.
*     Model preparation for medium term macro impact assessment of BEP. This will
consist of an effort to prepare the model for the required assessment, as well as to establish the baseline
macro data.
*     Baseline study with graduates. Using existing international models, an attempt will be
made to follow-up the graduates of BEP, assessing the degree of success they attain in participation in
higher levels of schools and/or in the labor market.
HII. MONITORING RESPONSE FACILITY (MRF): PROPOSED ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
As described in the Project Description (Annex 2), the Program will include a Monitoring Response
Facility (MRF) to support pilot initiatives from communities, educational non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and branches of the Ministry of National Educationinvolved in planning.
International experience suggest that the following could be the eligible beneficiaries of a MRF:
* parents, students and teachers
* school administrators
Within the overall principle of financing research and school based projects outside the existing
budgetary resources to improve the education reform program, project eligibility criteria could include:
* equity focus. Focusing on districts with low overall or low female schooling rates
* community focus. Actions aimed at increasing the involvement of the community in
local education.
* participation. Actions aimed at increasing the participation of parents, teachers, and
civil society in general in education reform.
* technical feasibility. Strategies based on improving technical aspects of the education
reform program, in particular with regard to education quality.
* managerial feasibility. Programs based at improving management of education.
* financial feasibility. Programs based at reducing costs of education.
* monitoring and evaluation.  Building new capacity for establishing effective
monitoring and relevant evaluation.



Annex 1: Attachment 1
Table I
Monitoring and Evaluation Activities Finance Plan
Type of Monitoring and Activities         _                                          Cost by Phases (US$)
1. Input Indicators                                                      PHASE 1      PHASE 2   PHASE 3    TOTAL
Civil Works                            In-house consultants (3)             90,000     90,000    90,000     270,000
Computers and sofware                  Outside consultants (2)             100,000    100,000    100,000    300,000
Education materials and activities
2. Process Indicators Monitoring         In-house/outside consultants (2)     60,000     60,000     60,000     180,000
General education trends
Cost effectiveness
3. Output Indicators Monitoring
Educational achievement testing        EARGED                              200,000    420,000    420,000    1,040,000
Achievements with respect to educators  In-house/outside consultants                  150,000    150,000     300,000
4. Impact Indicators Monitoring
a) Basic attitudes                      Outsourcing                         500,000              500,000    1,000,000
b) Topical Social Assessments
Pre-school effectiveness             Outsourcing                                    160,000               160,000
Community programs                   Outsourcing                                    160,000                160,000
Social assistance                    Outsourcing                                    160,000                160,000
Working children                     Outsourcing                                    160,000                160,000
Innovative elements                  Outsourcing                                    180,000                180,000
School environment/quality           Outsourcing                                    250,000                250,000
c) System-wide and macro development
Macro impact asessment of BEP        Outsourcing                                    200,000    200,000     400,000
Strategy development                 Outsourcing                                    160,000    160,000     320,000
d) Baseline study with graduates                                                       100,000    300,000     400,000
Evaluation                               Outside consultants                 100,000    100,000    100,000     300,000
Monitoring Response Facility             Program Coordination Unit          1,000,000   3,000,000  6,000,000   10,000,000
Information/Communication (IC)           PCU, Consultants                     60,000    120,000    120,000     300,000
Information/communication activities   Outsourcing, MONE Press Office      300,000    850,000    850,000    2,000,000
MOE Planning Capacity Building                                               490,000  2,600,000              3,090,000
TOTAL                   _                                 2,900,000   9,020,000  9,050,000   20,970,000
NOTES:
Approximate consultant cost (per person, full time, annual)
In-house local consultants $30,000
Outside consultants $50,000



Annex 1: Attachment I
Talble 2
Monitoring and Institutional Arrangements
1998               1999                2000                2001
ID                     Task Name                        Jan       Jul       Jan..    Jul        Jan       Jul       Jan       Jul
1            Input Indicators Monitoring
2                     Civil Works                                                            _
3                 Information Technology                                                     _
4               Education Materials/activiites              i
5             Process Indicators Monitoring
6                General Education Trends
7                   Cost Effectiveness
8         Output/Outcome Indicators Monitoring
9              Educational Achievement Tests
12            Achievements related to Educators
15             Impact Indicators Monitoring
16                    Basic Attitudes
19                Pre-school Effectiveness
20                School Based Programs
21                   Social Assistance
22                   Working Children
23                  Innovative Elements
25               School Environment/Quality
26     Macro-impact Modelling/Strategy Development                       __
27              Graduate Monitoring Study
28                      Evaluation
29    Continuous                                                  __
30                        Annual                                                      -                   -
34             Information Communication
35                     Publications                                                           _      _        _      _
36                        Web-site                           ;    __
37                 Visual InformationfTV                     .____.
38                     Partnerships                                                                                             -
39                   Meetings/smposia                                                                                           -
40             Monitoring Response Facility                              I
41             Institutional Capacity Building
42           In-service training for planning staff
46       Procurement of equipment for planning offices       -



ANNEX 2
Turkey Basic Education Program
Project Description
OBJECTIVES AND CONTENT
1.    The Basic Education Program is the Turkish Government's comprehensive investment
program to achieve the objectives of its new basic education strategy.' The objectives of this
strategy are: a) to achieve universal coverage in an expanded, eight-year basic education cycle,
b) to improve the quality and relevance of basic education, and c) to make basic education
schools a learning resource for the community.
2.    The Program comprises four components, each of which includes several activities:
a.    Expanded Basic Education Coverage, which will support the training and
recruitment of additional teachers and the design, construction, expansion and upgrading
of basic education schools.
b.    Improved Basic Education Ouality, which will support in-service training for
teachers, inspectors, and school principals, provision of textbooks and educational
materials for basic education schools, the provision of hardware, software, and training
for information technology in basic education schools, and a number of other initiatives
designed to improve the quality of basic education.
C.    Program Implementation Support, which will provide equipment and technical
assistance for implementation management, including maintenance of Program accounts.
d.    Monitoring and Evaluation, which will assess the outcomes of the Program
against several categories of performance indicators, and provide continuous feedback to
Program management to improve the effectiveness of the Program in meeting its
objectives as implementation progresses. This component also includes support for a
Monitoring Response Facility to implement recommendations for school-based
initiatives arising from the monitoring and evaluation process, and public media efforts
to promote compliance with and support for the Basic Education Program.
3.    The first and the second components respectively address the Program objectives of
expanded basic education enrollments and improved basic education quality and relevance, as
well as the objective of making basic education schools a learning resource for the community.
The third and fourth components support essential activities to address all three objectives.
Inevitably, there is some overlap in objectives, since the actions to improve school quality and to
The Government's description of the Program is presented in the Letter of Sector Policy, provided as
Annex 5.



Annex 2
page 2 of 14
make schools a resource for the community are expected to improve school attendance as well.2
The Ministry of National Education also expects that the creation of additional classroom
capacity will contribute to improved quality of basic education by reducing classroom
overcrowding and multiple-shifting.
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND LOAN PHASING
4.     The Program duration is defined by those activities which are to achieve the objective of
universal eight-year basic education. Although the Government plans to implement the Basic
Education Program over the next three years to meet its enrollment targets, implementation of
some aspects of the Program could take longer. Some activities -- such as student assessment --
are by nature longer-term activities. And as a result, the implementation and disbursement
forecasts provided in this proposal are more conservative than the schedule which the
Government intends to follow in implementing the Program.
5.    APL financing of US$600 million is proposed in two overlapping APLs of US$300
million each. Disbursement of the initial $300 million APL is projected to require three years,
starting with effectiveness in July, 1998 (although the Ministry plans to use this amount more
quickly). The timing of these first two APLs and the processing of subsequent financing for the
Program will depend upon the actual pace of implementation of the activities which the APLs
are financing, and the actions which serve as triggers for progressing to the second APL. The
triggers for release of the second APL and for launching the preparation of subsequent financing
are designed to demonstrate the Program's educational equity objective up front, and to respond
to financing needs as implementation of the Program progresses.
6.     Some activities in the Program are well developed and will be supported under the first
phase of the APL financing. Other activities have been agreed as essential elements of the
Program, but are still under development by the Ministry. Implementation of these activities will
be supported in subsequent phases of APL financing. The level of detail provided here reflects
the state of readiness of Program elements. Activities which are ready for implementation
during the first phase are described in greater detail than activities which will be implemented
during subsequent phases. For some of the activities, further detail is provided in Documents
Available in the Program File (Annex 8).
LOAN FINANCING
7.    The proposed US$300 million Adaptable Program Loan (APL) would support initial
implementation of the Government's Basic Education Program. The total cost of the First Phase
of the Basic Education Program is estimated at US$2,515.2 million including contingencies,
taxes and duties. Taxes are estimated at about US$435.1 million equivalent. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at about US$365.2 million equivalent or about 14.5 percent of
2   The beneficiary assessment which was carried out for the Basic Education Pilot Project -- Factors
Influencing School Attendance in Basic Education in Turkey, with Special Emphasis on Female
Education, by Prof. Dr. Niyazi Karasar, November, 1991 -- found that some rural parents are
reluctant to send their daughters to school because they consider that the education provided in their
village schools is of low quality and relevance to their needs. Improving the quality and relevance of
basic education is expected to lead to imnproved school attendance, as well as improved learning
achievement.



Annex 2
page 3 of 14
total project cost including contingencies and taxes. The local cost including taxes amounts to
about US$2,150.0 million or about 85.5 percent of total cost. The first APL of US$300.0 million
will finance about 14.4 percent of total Phase I cost net of taxes and duties. The financing plan,
summarized below in Table 1, is shown in further detail in Annex 3. Details of the allocation of
the proceeds of the first APL, as well as the Schedule of Disbursements, are shown in Tables 6C
and 6D, respectively, in Annex 6.
Table 1: Proposed APL Phase I Financing
(in US$million)
Provincial
The Government  Administration  The World Bank  National Donors  Total
Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %   Amount   %    Amount   %
I. Foreign           191.8   52.5    5.5    1.5  145.0   39.7   22.8    6.2    365.2   14.5
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)    1,425.2   83.1   29.6    1.7  154.9    9.0  105.1    6.1   1,714.9   68.2
Ill. Taxes           404.7   93.0   6.6    1.5       -     -   23.9    5.5    435.1   17.3
Total Project       2,021.7   80.4   41.7    1.7  300.0   11.9  151.8    6.0  2,515.2  100.0
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
COMPONENT I: EXPANDED BASIC EDUCATION COVERAGE
1.1.    The first component comprises two categories of activities: a) teacher training,
recruitment, and deployment, and b) school construction, extensions, and upgrading.
LA. Teacher Training. Recruitment. and Deployment: No loan financing will be used under
the first APL for these activities, although an extensive program of in-service training will be
ftnanced under the second component.
I.A. 1. The Ministry intends to recruit about 150,000 teachers, and inspectors to accommodate
the basic education enrollment increases which are expected under the Program.3 The Ministry
is working closely with the Higher Education Council (YOK) and specific universities to provide
the necessary preservice teacher training for these staff, and is in the early stages of recruiting
the first wave of teachers and other educational staff needed for the 1998/1999 school year.
I.A.2. Under the National Education Development Project (NEDP), the Ministry of National
Education and universities are collaborating to improve the quality of teacher training through
redesigned curricula and foreign fellowships, as well as improved conditions at teacher training
colleges. More recently, teacher training colleges have adjusted their admissions and teaching
programs to meet the requirements for new teachers under the Basic Education Program. YOK
has adopted a number of initiatives, including introducing new training programs for English
teachers and preschool teachers, and diverting secondary school teacher trainees -- who are
currently in oversupply -- to basic education. These initiatives are expected to supply 30,000
new teachers in 1998, 50,000 in 1999 and 70,000 in the year 2000, in addition to the
approximately 17,000 teachers who graduate each year from teacher training programs for basic
education teachers. In September, 1997, the Ministry of National Education also enacted a new
3   Due to teacher attrition (through retirements, resignations, etc.), the net increase in teachers under the
Program is estimated at about 30,000 teachers per year in 1998-2000.



Annex 2
page 4 of 14
regulation to allow retired teachers to return to work on a volunteer basis. This provision
attracted about 1,000 additional teachers in basic education schools this year.
I.A.3. The Ministry is also in the process of implementing changes in personnel policies which
will improve the efficiency of teacher deployment. Currently, insufficient incentives for teachers
to serve in poor rural areas -- especially in the East and Southeast -- lead to many unfilled
teacher positions in these areas. Earlier this year, Government approved a substantial increase in
pay -- amounting to a 300 percent increase in the existing hardship allowance, and a 30 percent
bonus -- for teachers working in difficult areas. In addition, legislation has recently been
adopted which increases teacher salaries by 18 to 40 percent over the previous teacher salary
scale.
I.A.4. Equally significant changes will improve flexibility in teacher assignments. The
Ministry has prepared draft legislation which is under consideration by Parliament to eliminate
the practice of guaranteed employment to all teachers who are married to civil servants, in the
city where their spouse is employed, regardless of the demand for teachers. This excessively
generous provision is responsible for an excess supply of about 18,000 teachers in the larger
cities in Western Anatolia.
LB. School Construction. Extensions. and Upgrading: The first APL will finance US$48.4
million for the rehabilitation and related architectural and engineering design work of about
200 village schools, 100 central village schools and 40 urban schools in the provinces of
Sirnak, Van, Mardin, Hakkari, and Bitlis, (or other provinces as agreed with the
Bank), while the Government and cofinanciers will finance the bulk of the Phase I
infrastructure program, including the engineering work, construction management and
furnishing.
I.B.1. The largest category of investments under the program is the construction, furnishing
and equipping of new basic education schools, and extensions to add capacity to existing schools
-- particularly, in grades 6 through 8, where the greatest enrollment increases are expected. The
Program also provides for the rehabilitation of schools to make them more functional and
attractive to the community which they are intended to serve -- thereby inducing better school
attendance, as well as better quality of education.  Together with the improvements in
educational inputs, student assistance, and basic education promotion which are being provided
under the Program, these improvements to existing schools are expected to contribute to higher
school attendance.
I.B.2. The capacity of the existing basic education physical plant is insufficient to
accommodate many students who complete grade 5. Currently, about 535,000 of the children
who complete grade 5 each year do not continue to grade 6. To accommodate this anticipated
increase in enrollments, a major increase in classroom capacity is needed. Additional classrooms
are also required to reduce overcrowding in existing classrooms and to reduce multiple shifting.
To meet both these categories of needs, the Ministry of National Education plans to construct
approximately 121,500 new classrooms during the next three years, providing additional space
for a total of 3,650,000 students. To complement these additional classrooms, ancillary facilities
for other curricular and extra-curricular activities, including laboratories, libraries, areas for
administrative and support functions, will also be provided. In addition, the Ministry plans to



Annex 2
page 5 of 14
provide about 110,000 boarding places4 to house students from isolated localities in fully
equipped central village schools, as well as approximately 7,200 residential units for teachers in
rural areas. In addition to these investments to expand basic education capacity, much of the
existing physical plant for basic education -- 30,700 rural schools and 8,700 urban schools --
does not meet the Ministry's school building standards. These schools need upgrading to
comply with prescribed norms.
I.B.3. The Government intends to complete the expansion of basic education capacity under
the Program by the year 2001, in three successive phases of contracts to be let during the three
years of Program: 1998, 1999, and 2000. About 13 percent of the total school infrastructure
program is planned for inclusion in the first phase, 37 percent during the second phase, and the
remaining 50 percent during the third phase. These annual phases of contracts for school
construction are distinct from the timing of the planned sequence of APLs. The timing of the
three phases of school construction, extension, and upgrading is driven by the school capacity
requirements for the next three school years and the civil-works contracting cycle, whereas the
timing of various APLs will depend upon fulfillment of specified performance triggers and the
need for external financing to supplement the Government's own resources. How closely they
coincide or how much they overlap will be determined by actual implementation progress in the
various elements of the Program upon which they depend.
I.B.4. Because the time the Government has set for completing the first wave of construction
for new schools is so compressed, it has decided to contract all Phase I schools using
Government Procurement Procedures. Therefore, Bank financing during the first APL will be
limited to upgrading 300 rural schools in provinces with the greatest educational needs, and 40
urban schools in the province of Ankara, where Bank Procurement Guidelines will apply.
Procurement of these works will follow Bank guidelines. The second and third phases of school
construction will be prepared as the first phase is implemented. Selection criteria for these
schools and procurement procedures are to be developed in consultation with the Bank, such that
expenditures on these schools could be eligible for reimbursement under the second APL, and
possible subsequent Bank financing.
I.B.5. The following sections describe the elements and activities (completed and planned)
which comprise the school construction, extension, and upgrading program, with greater detail
provided for the first phase than for the subsequent phases. Table 3, below, summarizes the
requirements and physical targets of the component.
4   The Ministry had initially proposed a heavier reliance upon regional boarding schools in the Program
to meet the needs of dispersed rural population. But it found under the Basic Education Pilot Project
that a more cost-effective approach for most rural areas consists of a combination of improving
existing primary schools, and providing schooling for the upper grades of basic education through
extensions to existing schools and bussing. Regional boarding schools will be developed under the
Program only as a last resort, when distances and topography preclude bussing, and then only for the
upper grades of basic education. Cost-effectiveness analysis was instrumental in developing the
approach to be implemented under the component, and will play an important role in refining this
model as the Program is implemented.



Annex 2
page 6 of 14
Table 3. Basic Education Program Infrastructure Investment Targets
INDICATORS/TARGETS                    Phase I   Phase II  Phase IlIl  Total BEP
BEP Infrastructure Program (completion rate)             13%        37%        50%       100%
New Construction (Number of New Student Places)     479,180  1,363,820  1,843,000  3,686,000
of which Rural BE Schools                        87,490    249,010    336,500    673,000
Urban BE Schools                          391,690  1,114,810  1,506,500  3,013,000
of which Preschool                               18,915     53,835     72,750    145500
Total New Classrooms Built                       15,795     44,955     60,750    121,500
of which Rural BE Schools                2,834      8,066     10,900    21,800
Urban BE Schools                 12,961     36,889     49,850     99,700
Rehabilitation of Existing BE Schools                  340      14,350     18,750    33,400
Number of Rural BE Schools                          300     11,000     14,700     26,000
Number of Urban BE Schools                           40      4,310      4,350      8,700
New Student Boarding (Rural)
Number of New Places Provided                    13,975     39,775     53,750    107,500
Teacher Housing (Rural)                               3,328      9,472     12,800     25,600
New Residential Units Built                         936      2,664      3,600      7,200
Existing Residential Units Upgraded               2,392      6,808      9,200     18,400
I.B. I 0. Phase I Infrastructure Investments: The first phase of school construction, extension,
and upgrading comprises activities to be contracted -- and, for the most part, implemented --
during the first year of the Program. Phase I activities comprise: (a) needs assessment and design
of the new schools to be constructed under the first phase of school construction, and (b) school
construction -- including completion of ongoing school construction projects and contracts,
construction of new schools, and rehabilitation and upgrading of about 300 existing rural schools
and 40 urban schools.
I.B. 11.        Specifically, these activities involve the following:
a.      Needs Assessment and School Design: Design and accommodation standards
for planning basic education facilities were developed under the Basic Education Pilot
Project. These norms were compiled in a Standards Manualfor School Buildings which
will be used as a handbook for the construction and upgrading of schools under the Basic
Education Program. The Manual also includes design norms for student boarding
facilities and teacher housing, as well as the standards for furnishing and equipping each
type of facility. A set of standards is also being prepared for the upgrading and extension
of existing schools.
Prototype school building designs, based upon the design principles and
standards in the Manual, have been commissioned from architectural and engineering
teams from five major national universities. These prototype designs (drawings and
technical specifications) will be used for the detailed planning and construction of
schools, and will be adapted to suit the specific characteristics of individual schools and
sites. The detailed engineering design work for the first wave of school construction will
be overseen by four regional construction management consultancies.



Annex 2
page 7 of 14
b.      School Construction and Upgrading: Under Phase I, the Ministry plans to
construct a total of about 479,180 new student places in basic education schools
(approximately 15,800 new classrooms), as well as spaces for about 14,000 students in
boarding schools, and housing for about 10,000 teachers in rural schools. This stage of the
infrastructure program will also include the refurbishing and remodeling of nearly 2,828
Information Technology Resource Rooms in existing schools (Component IIA).
About half of the Phase I infrastructure program is already under
implementation. Building contracts for the rest of the schools are expected to be tendered
and awarded by June, 1998. The Ministry expects that all Phase I construction contracts
would be completed and the schools ready for student occupancy by mid-September,
1998 when classes are scheduled to begin, although some of the Phase I construction
program will likely carry over into 1999.
In addition to the new school construction, about 300 rural schools in the
provinces with greatest educational needs -- about 200 five-year village schools in the
provinces of Sirnak, Van, Mardin, Hakkari, and Bitlis (or in other provinces as agreed
with the Bank), and about 100 centralized, eight-year rural schools in the provinces of
Kocaeli, Yalova, Batman, Igdir, and Bartin (or in other provinces as agreed with the
Bank) -- will be upgraded to the new standards. About 40 urban slum schools will also be
upgraded to these standards in the province of Ankara. The rehabilitation/upgrading of
the 340 schools is to be financed under the first APL. Partial completion of upgrading for
the 300 rural schools is one of the triggers for progressing to the second APL.
I.B. 12. Phases II and III of the Infrastructure Program. It is expected that Bank financing under
the second APL, and possible subsequent lending, will support investments in new school
construction and upgrading. The second phase of the infrastructure program is expected to begin
implementation in early 1999 and will cover about 37 percent of the total infrastructure
development planned under the Program. Phase III would cover the remainder (50 percent) of
the total program, and is planned to start implementation by the year 2000.
COMPONENT 11: IMPROVED BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY
II.1   The second component comprises a number of activities designed to improve basic
education learning outcomes and the relevance of basic education. Under the Program, quality
improvements include: i) the introduction of information technology into the curriculum, ii)
provision of educational materials and textbooks, iii) in-service training of education staff, iv)
student aid to help defray the private costs of basic education to poor households, and v)
assessment of learning achievement.
ILA. Information Technology (IT): The first APL will finance US$154.0 million for the
upgrading of information technology rooms andfor the provision of hardware and software.
5 Government resources of TL 117 trillion (US$520 million equivalent) have already been allocated in
the 1998 budget for ongoing and committed contracts, as well as TL 102 trillion (about US$450
million equivalent) for new school construction, plus TL 35 trillion for the purchase of school
equipment and TL 25 trillion for site acquisition for new schools.



Annex 2
page 8 of 14
II.A. 1. In its efforts to improve education quality and the competitiveness of the country's labor
force, the Ministry has introduced computer literacy and training into the basic education
curriculum and plans to equip IT resource centers in all 8-year basic education schools. Turkey
has already experienced rapid growth in its informatics workforce. Nevertheless, the proportion
of informatics-literate workers in the total labor force remains significantly below that of other
OECD and emerging economies. In light of the increasing demand for jobs requiring basic
computer skills, and the technological shift towards personal computing and distributed
applications, the Government has recognized the need for a strategy to promote the diffusion of
computer literacy. The objective of the IT component is to enhance learning by using IT as a
productive tool across the basic education curriculum.
IL.A.2. The Ministry is in the process of developing specific inputs considered essential by the
Bank (and following international best practice) for using technology successfully to support
education reform including: a) a policy paper on why and what the Ministry intends to use IT to
support various kinds of learning activities, including a clear set of goals that can be
communicated to teachers, students, parents, and industry alike, b) a strategy on how to integrate
IT into the curriculum, including an approach for educational software provision, methods to get
students to become computer literate, the grades and courses which are to use IT, how
continuous teacher training will be organized, and quality assurance, and c) a three-year model
plan for schools in using IT in the curriculum each week, including competencies to be
developed, software to be used, individual/group approaches, teacher training, extracurricular
use of the laboratories, and community activities.
II.A.3. The design of the IT activity builds upon the successful Computer Experimental School
component under the National Education Development Project (NEDP), carried out since 1992
by the General Directorate for Education Technologies (ETGEM). Under this activity, ETGEM
established computer laboratories and provided training for teachers in 235 primary and
secondary schools across Turkey. It also developed computer-aided education programs for the
vocational high schools. The Computer Experimental School component was evaluated by an
international group of experts in October, 1996, and found successful in integrating IT into
learning and engaging community involvement in the initiative.6 Based on this finding, the
Ministry is expanding the program to an additional 182 schools, and drawing upon staff
experience and expertise for the Basic Education Program.
II.A.4. The Program will support the following activities under the IT component: a) training of
information technology (IT) coordinators, teachers, and administrators in computer literacy
courses and in computer-aided instruction through in-service training, b) a phased introduction of
computer resource centers to, first, existing schools in sub-provinces with high student
populations, then to regional basic education boarding schools, and subsequently to remaining
basic education schools, c) Turkish educational course software provision (e.g., keyboarding,
6      The independent review of the Computer Experimental Schools under the National Education
Development Project (available in the Project File) found that administrators, teachers, and students were
all enthusiastically and creatively using the equipment and software provided under the project. In the
schools visited by the evaluators it was clear that the students were utilizing the facilities on a daily basis.
They understood how to operate the hardware and software, and were beginning to identify changes in
their learning environments. In some cases, support from the Parent/Teachers Associations (PTAs) was
used to upgrade equipment, provide additional hardware, and even to hire laboratory technicians.



Annex 2
page 9 of 14
curricula-based instruction, reference, tutorials, languages, dictionaries, Turkish grammar,
simulations, experiments, and libraries), d) expansion of Internet connectivity and services from
its current proof-of-concept stage to a more advanced operational stage, in order to allow schools
to be linked to each other and Turkish educational web sites to be made available for use by
teachers and students, and e) strengthening communication between IT coordinators, teachers,
and universities through information bulletins, web sites, and annual, regional workshops to
review best practices.
III.A.4. Phase I IT Investments: During Phase I, hardware, software, and training will be
provided to equip, staff, and operate 2,828 IT rooms in existing eight-year basic education
schools throughout the country. At least two schools in each sub-province will be equipped with
IT rooms during the first phase of the APL. The first APL will include financing for preparation
of the rooms which will house the 2,828 computer resource centers, hardware, software, training
of full-time coordinators orformators for each resource center, and shorter programs of training
for teachers whose students will use the facilities. The Ministry is in the process of identifying
secondary teachers with suitable skills to becomeformators. All are to be selected by the end of
May, 1998, in time for intensive training during the summer, 1998. Training is to be provided by
contracted teams of information technology experts who are experienced in educational
applications. Most are expected to come from Turkish universities.
II.B. In-Service Training: The first APL will finance US$ 31.2 million of in-service teacher
training costs -- largely travel, accommodations and materials development -for the first year
of Program implementation.
II.B.1. The Program aims to provide two weeks of in-service teacher training each year -- one
week each at the beginning and end of the school year -- for approximately 305,000 basic
education teachers and school principals, including those assigned to the new schools being
constructed under the Program. Training will also be provided for the roughly 3,000 school
inspectors and 1,236 education administrators, including provincial and sub-provincial education
officials. The Bank has reviewed and agreed to the general program of training to be provided
under the Program. Costs incurred as of appraisal will be eligible for retroactive financing,
subject to an overall limit of $30 million.
II.B.2. Training will be administered at the provincial level by inspectors, based on modules
designed by the Ministry. Courses will cover topic areas including, inter alia, pedagogical
methods, learning assessment, community participation and classroom management and
communication. The training courses will also make use of the materials and training modules
developed under the Pilot Program to equip teachers to teach more effectively in difficult
teaching environments and to involve parents in school activities. Teachers will have the
opportunity to supplement and build upon these two weeks of training during on-site visits from
inspectors, and -- in rural areas -- monthly seminars held in central villages.
II.B.3. Training for provincial education officials and school principals aims to strengthen
management capacity at the school level, in order to improve decision-making, parental
participation in school affairs, and support for teachers' professional development. The Ministry
has already developed a number of in-service training courses for managers addressing education
planning, communication, leadership training and the use of technology in schools.
II.B.4. Counseling is an important ingredient for improving student performance and preparing
students for post-basic education and employment. Extending the duration of. compulsory



Annex 2
page 10 of 14
education will greatly increase students' options and opportunities for employment and further
education. Guidance counselors are important facilitators for assisting students in making
informed choices among these options. The Program will address the serious shortage of
guidance counselors -- who are currently employed in only one percent of urban schools -- by
raising awareness of counseling issues among all staff, and particularly for those in schools
without counselors. The Ministry is in the process of developing a resource guide on guidance
issues, including psychological counseling and career guidance for preschool and basic school
teachers and school managers, and plans to incorporate training on counseling into the in-service
training curriculum for teachers and administrators.
I C. Provision of Essential Teaching and Learning Materials to Rural Schools: The first
APL will include US$47.6 million to provide and distribute a package of teaching and learning
materials to 25,900 schools in rural areas.
II.C. 1. In order to improve learning achievement in poorly equipped rural schools, the Program
will provide a basic package of teaching and learning materials to nearly all rural schools for the
1998-99 school year, and a full set of required textbooks to all rural schools for the 1999-2000
school year. Many rural schools lack adequate supplies of educational materials for satisfactory
teaching and learning. Children in rural schools also often lack textbooks because of household
income constraints. The Basic Education Pilot provided a basic package of teaching and
learning materials to 274 five-year village schools in six provinces in Eastern and Southeastern
Turkey, based on a list of materials which was developed in consultation with teachers and
inspectors from rural schools in those provinces.
II.C.2. Phase I Teaching/Learning Materials: The basic package of educational materials to
be provided to the 25,900 rural five-year schools will be based on the package which was
provided to 274 rural primary schools under the Basic Education Pilot Project (costing
approximately $3,000 per school). An augmented package will be provided to the 4,800 rural
eight-year basic education schools, and is estimated to cost about three times as much as the
package for the rural five-year schools. The lists of educational materials which will be
distributed are based on those which were developed in consultation with teachers and inspectors
from rural schools for the Basic Education Pilot Project.
II.C.3. Phases II and III Textbooks: Although textbooks are normally purchased by
households, some parents of children in rural areas cannot afford them. The Ministry plans to
address this need in the second year of the Program, by providing a free set of required textbooks
to all rural schools. In order to ensure the maximum choice of titles at the best price, it is
planned that textbooks will be procured for all rural basic education schools by approaching the
publishers of all Board-approved titles, and requesting variable discounts from the list price
depending on the volume of purchase. These discounts will be translated into actual prices and
provided to all provinces and subprovinces for their selection and use. On the basis of this
information, the Ministry will collate requests, procure in bulk from each publisher, and contract
for distribution to the provinces. The estimated cost of this procurement -- to be implemented
under the second APL -- is US$15 million.
IID. Student Social Aid: The Ministry expects to finance its student social aid initiative (costs
estimated at US$45 million per annum) through grant funds.



Annex 2
page 11 of 14
II.D.1. The Ministry's current social aid program for improving school attendance and
performance for low income students will be supported and expanded through the Program. Part
of the rationale for this effort is to offset the economic burden to some households of extended
compulsory education. Under this initiative, the MONE uses its network of girls' vocational
schools and adult education centers to make and provide school uniforms and meals to poor
students in urban geckeondu areas and centralized bussing schools in both urban and rural areas.
The program is actively supported through donations from the public. Over the next three years,
this initiative will be extended to include needy children in rural areas -- including children
attending village five-year schools -- by inviting the involvement of NGOs and school-based
community groups.
IIE. Assessment of Learning Achievement: The first APL will support US$0.7 for the
development and implementation of assessments of learning outcomes.
II.E. 1. Analysis of the learning outcomes of the Basic Education Program is a key tool for
monitoring the impact of Program interventions and tracking quality developments. This Fall,
building on the existing assessment tools developed under NEDP, the Department of Educational
Research and Development (ERDD) will administer representative surveys of approximately
70,000 students in 500 basic education schools to assess learning achievements in four subjects:
Turkish, science, math and social studies. This will be expanded to include computer literacy and
foreign language proficiency in 1999 and subsequent years. The results of the exams will be used
to evaluate Program successes and shortcomings, and to make appropriate corrections in the
Program. The results of the assessments will be shared with the provinces as an instrument for
improving educational performance.
COMPONENT III: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
III.1. The Program will be managed by a Program Coordination Team (PCT), headed by a
Program Director reporting directly to the Undersecretary in the Ministry, in coordination with
the relevant ministerial line units. Specialized consultants will be hired by the PCT as needed to
lend expertise and implement various aspects of the Program. The PCT will contain managerial
staff responsible for implementing program components in coordination with the line units.
Seven managers will be recruited in the following areas: (i) infrastructure, (ii) information
technology, (iii) educational interventions, (iv) monitoring and evaluation, and financial
management and procurement.
III.A. Support for the Program Coordination Team: The first APL will provide US$1.8 million
in implementation support to the PCT in the form of specialized consulting services, study
tours for selected Team staff, office equipment and undesignated technical assistance.
III.A. 1. Each sub-unit of the Program Coordination Team will be staffed with seconded Ministry
personnel, who have adequate experience in managing and implementing educational investment
projects. Some of these key staff have gained implementation experience and familiarity with
Bank procedures under the National Education Development Project and the Basic Education
Pilot Project financed by the Bank. However, given the magnitude and complexity of the
proposed Basic Education Program, the Program and the first APL include the following
consultant services: a) Procurement Specialists (lead specialist for procurement management and
technical support for procurement of works, goods and services contracts), b) Financial
Management Specialists (accountant/bookkeeper, financial management/disbursement specialist



Annex 2
page 12 of 14
with experience in international banking/commercial practice), c) Education Specialists (fields to
be deternined as the Program develops), and d) Monitoring and Evaluation Specialists including
data/information management specialist to organize the reporting requirements of the Program.
It is expected that most of these specialized services will be provided by individual consultants
selected on the basis of their qualifications and experience for the specific assignment. Selected
staff will have an opportunity to undertake training visits/tours (e.g. to observe successful basic
education interventions in other countries, and to participate in procurement training at Bank
Headquarters). Appropriate office equipment and computers will be procured for PCT staff use.
III.A.2. The first APL also includes resources for undesignated Program implementation support,
to be used to strengthen implementation capacity as needs arise. These resources can be used, as
agreed by the Ministry and the Bank, either to engage individual consultants beyond those
identified above, or for institutional support in appropriate areas of Program implementation.
IILB. Educational Management hqformation Systems: The first APL will provide US$3.0
million to strengthen educational management information systems, including school
mapping.
III.B.1 As described above (Component 1), additional capacity is required in the Ministry to
strengthen education planning for subsequent phases of the Basic Education Program and on-
going system management. This activity will be financed under the APL, and will support the
Ministry's Council for Research, Planning (APK) to: a) improve the Ministry's educational
information management capacity, b) train and strengthen APK technical staff in the use of
state-of-the-art education management information systems, and c) acquire up-to-date computer
hardware and software.
COMPONENT IV: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
IV.A. Social Assessment and Monitoring: Thefirst APL willfinance US$3. Ofor monitoring
and evaluation of the Program. Most of the activities will continue throughout the entire
Program (Phases I-III).
IV.A. 1: Monitoring and social impact assessments will serve as key instruments for guiding
Program implementation and development. Because of the flexible nature of the Government's
Program and the APLs designed to support it, monitoring of indicators and assessments are vital
for shaping the Program as it evolves. On-going evaluation will provide essential feedback for
gauging progress, making course corrections, and responding to changing circumstances and
lessons learned. Monitoring will be based on four groups of indicators: input, process, output,
and impact. Specialized studies and assessments will be undertaken throughout the Program, on
topics including preschool education, community-based activities (together with the related line
units), social assistance programs, and working children and other groups in need of social aid.8
The Program Coordination Team will be responsible for monitoring activities and will
7During Phase I of the Program, APK will assess the feasibility of integrating a Geographic Information
System (GIS) into the school mapping process, and the resources needed for setting up an integrated
GIS/School mapping system at national and provincial levels
8 A description of the proposed indicators, studies and social assessments is included in Annex 1
Attachment 1.



Annex 2
page 13 of 14
adequately staff itself to coordinate the relevant activities across various departments of the
MONE and its local offices.
IV.A.2. The results of monitoring efforts will be evaluated in a participatory manner at several
levels. First, the Project Coordination Team will evaluate the results jointly with the relevant
departments of the MONE. It will also share results with the provincial and sub-provincial
administrators and seek their feedback. Indeed, this will be an important step in the direction of
creating local level capacity for Program monitoring and evaluation. The results will also be
shared through regular national seminars which the MONE will organize for consultative
purposes. Joint evaluation by the Bank and the MONE will also be carried out, culminating in
annual joint reviews to be held in May of each year, and including the participation of
international and national consultants with expertise relevant to the Program.
IV.B. Monitoring Response Facility: The firstAPL will provide US$8.4 million to establish a
Monitoring Response Facility (MRF).
IV.B.1. The Program includes an innovative component, the Monitoring and Response Facility,
(MRF), which is designed to provide the Program with the flexibility to respond to developments
arising during implementation, and to support the development of pilot projects and initiatives,
consistent with Program objectives, at the school level. Implementation of educational reform
programs in Turkey and other countries has shown that the monitoring process often identifies:
(a) issues for further investigation, (b) promising strategies and approaches which require pilot
testing prior to adoption and replication; and (c) new implementation channels which require
support in the short term in order to be sustainable over the longer term. The MRF will allow
parent groups, school administrations and teacher groups, and branches of the Ministry of
National Education involved in the planning, preparation, implementation and monitoring of the
Program to apply for funding to support school-based initiatives which are consistent with the
objectives of the Program.
IV.B.2. The MRF will be administered by the Program Coordination Team Director and will be
an integral part of the monitoring and evaluation process for the Program. The MRF project
cycle will be divided into three main stages: (a) monitoring of the program and promotion of its
funding possibilities, (b) screening, appraisal and approval of funding applications, and (c)
implementation -- including monitoring and evaluation. During the first stage, the administrator
will identify issues and opportunities that could benefit from the MRF at the same time as it
informs potential recipients of the existence of MRF, including its guidelines and eligibility
criteria. Parent associations, schools, and groups of teachers will be eligible to apply. Program
proposals submitted by potential recipients will be screened to identify those which meet the
eligibility criteria. Proposals will designate performance indicators, as well as the need for
technical assistance during implementation. Following approval of proposals, staff of the PCT
Team Leader would work with the recipients to develop standardized reporting systems and the
procurement of goods and services as appropriate. Monitoring of progress will be carried out by
the Team Leader on the basis of regular reports and field visits, with an emphasis on
disseminating lessons learned throughout the country.
Draft criteria for MRF proposals are included in Annex 1: Attachment 1.



Annex 2
page 14 of 14
IV.B.4 The Bank would carry out reviews of the MRF work program on an annual basis, and ex
post reviews of operations -- including procurement practices, the operations of the special
account, and the general MRF performance -- on a quarterly basis. The first three activities to be
financed under the MRF, and thereafter all individual MRF activities costing more than $30,000
would require prior Bank review. Accounting and auditing of the MRF would be included in
the overall Project financial review mechanisms.
IV. C. Basic Education Promotion: The first APL will finance US$1.9 million for a basic
education promotion campaign.
IV.C. 1 Although public support for the Basic Education Program is currently strong, because of
the complex nature of the Program, it will be necessary to communicate timely information on
its objectives, activities and progress with the full range of stakeholders and the public in order
to maintain the existing level of attention. While there has been extensive public debate on the
expansion of basic education from five to eight years, the expansion of boarding schools, pre-
school facilities, and opportunities for community involvement in schools, there is a need to
provide more specific information on these developments with the public. Communication is
also important for reinforcing the compulsory nature of basic education in more remote areas.
IV.C.2 In order to address these needs at the outset, a range of public relations activities will be
supported under Phase I of the Program, including public opinion surveys and other instruments
for measuring popular support, and information dissemination through advertisements,
publications, public discussions and other media. It will be important to establish in-house
capacity to evaluate the information needs of the various stakeholder groups, the nature of the
information needed, the appropriate channels of communication, the consistency of the
communication plan, and the timing and objectives of individual information and PR activities.
The creation of an in-house capacity should then allow for the formulation of specific tasks to be
procured from professional consultants/firms. Services that can be procured from qualified PR
consultants and companies would include conducting public opinion surveys, media monitoring,
message development and testing, PR strategy development, building internal consensus,
evaluation and impact assessment and feedback.



Annex 2: Attachment 1
page I of 1
Annex 2: Attachment 1
Preparation of the School Infrastructure Component:
1.    Estimates of additional capacity requirements were developed by the Program
Preparation Team, in coordination with the Ministry's Research, Planning and Coordination
Council (APK). Because of the need to act rapidly to define the construction priorities for the
first wave of school construction, the Ministry has relied heavily on estimates -- from both APK
and provincial education authorities -- in defining its initial (CY 1998) investment plan. The
Ministry is currently refining this methodology for subsequent phases of the program in order to
ensure better targeting and cost-effectiveness of investments. The Program includes technical
assistance and equipment, to be financed udder the APL, to strengthen the Ministry's capacity in
this area.
2.     Aggregate estimates for new construction during the first year were based on projections
of student numbers and existing capacity. Following the passage of the Basic Education Law in
August, 1997, the 80 provinces were asked to provide data on student enrollments and existing
facilities in rural and urban areas for each of the 921 subprovinces. Based on these data, APK
estimated the number of additional classrooms needed for each subprovince by calculating the
expected enrollments for the 1998/1999 school year and, subsequently, the number of classrooms
needed to accommodate projected enrollments in single-shift classrooms of 30 students each.
These figures were then sent back to the provinces for verification, and were then recommended
by the Ministry as a framework within which each province was to develop its school investment
plan.
3.    In September, 1997, the Ministry provided the provinces with instructions and criteria
for preparing their 1998 school investment plans. Criteria included the physical condition and
accessibility of existing schools, the availability of teachers, and options for bussing students
from neighboring villages to central schools. The provincial education authorities prepared their
investment proposals in consultation with the provincial Governor and other members of the
Provincial General Administration Council -- an official body responsible for approving all
investment plans. The provincial proposals -- including infonrnation on the number and size of
new schools to be built, as well as specifics on site availability and costs -- were presented to
APK in February, 1998, at a conference of provincial Governors and provincial education
directors. These proposals were then cross-checked with the classroom estimates, and either
accepted by the Ministry or returned to the provinces for revisions.
4.    In preparation for the second and third phases of school construction, the Ministry is
refining its planning methodology to improve the precision of its plans, and decision-making on
the appropriate types of infrastructure investments for particular applications (e.g. whether to
accommodate expected enrollment increases in a particular catchment area by enlarging capacity
in an existing school, by building a new school, by bussing students to another school with
available capacity, or by sending students to a regional boarding school). In addition to
gathering more detailed, school-level data, the Ministry will provide the provinces with more
explicit criteria -- in consultation with the Bank -- for determining the most cost-effective school
investments to meet local needs. On the basis of these guidelines and its more refined, school-
level database, the Ministry will assess the province's school investment proposals, and integrate
them into a national plan for basic education infrastructure. The Phase II APL and possible
future Bank financing are expected to support these school infrastructure investments.



Annex 3
page 1 of 4
ANNEX 3
Basic Education Program
Estimated Costs of Phase I
Table 3A: Project Cost by Component
%     % Total
(USS Million)         Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Phase I
1. Expanded Basic Education Coverage
a. Construction and Upgrading of Basic Education Schools  1,187.8   196.1    1,383.9      14       58
b. Teacher Training and Recruitment                       650.0       -      650.0         -       27
Subtotal Expanded Basic Education Coverage                1,837.8   196.1    2,033.9        10       85
2. Improve Basic Education Quality
a. In-service Training Programs                            33.5      0.0      33.5         -
b. Educational Materials                                   63.9    27.9       91.8        30        Al
c. Information Technology                                  69.1   106.9      176.0        61        7
d. Assessment of Learning Outcomes                          0.5      0.3       0.8        40
Subtotal Improve Basic Education Quality                    166.9   135.2      302.2        45       13
3. Program Implementation
a. Program Management Team                                 43.4     0.5       43.9         1        2
b. EMIS/School Mapping                                      1.2     2.2        3.5        65
Subtotal Program Implementation                              44.7      2.7      47.4         6        2
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
a. Social Assessment, Monitoring and Studies                2.7     0.7        3.3        20
b. Monitoring Response Facility                             9.1      1.0      10.1        10
c. Basic Education Promotion                                2.0     0.2        2.2        10
Subtotal Monitoring and Evaluation                           13.7      1.9       15.6       12        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    2,063.1   335.9    2,399.0        14      100
Physical Contingencies                                       75.3    24.1       99.4        24        4
Price Contingencies                                          11.6      5.2      16.8        31        1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     2,150.0   365.2    2,515.2        15      105
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Annex 3
page 2 of 4
Annex 3
Basic Education Program
Estimated Costs of Phase I
Table 3B: Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
%     % Total
(US$ Million)         Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Phase I
1. School Construction and Upgrading
a. New Construction                                                                    756.0   133.4      889.4        15      37
b. Rehabilitation and Upgrading                                                       231.1    25.7       256.8        10      11
c. School Site Acquisition                                                             106.4       -      106.4         -       4
Subtotal School Construction and Upgrading                                             1,093.5   159.1    1,252.6        13      52
2. Equipment and Materials
a. School. Educational and Other Equipment                                              15.1    35.3       50.4       70        2
b. School Fumiture                                                                      82.4     4.3       86.7         5       4
c. Information Technology
IT Hardware for Basic Educaton Schools                                               29.8    89.3       119.0       75        5
IT Software for Basic Education Schools                                               3.8    11.5        15.3       75        1
EMIS Hardware for APKjProvincial Units                                                0.8      1.9        2.7       72         -
EMIS/School Mapping Software and Development                                          0.1      0.2        0.3       75         -
Subtotal Information Technology                                                         34.4   102.9      137.3        75       6
d. Bank-Financed Books, Intellectual Property and Materials
Prescribed Textbooks                                                                 20.0      8.6       28.5       30        1
Library Books and Intellectual Property                                               5.8      2.4        8.0       30         -
Teaching Materials and Supplies                                                       12.8     5.4       18.2       30        1
Subtotal Bank-Financed Books, Intellectual Property and Materials                       38.4    16.3       54.7       30        2
a. Non-Bank-FInanced Books, Intellectual Property and Materials
Library Books and Intellectual Property                                               0.6      0.3        0.9       30         -
Teaching Materials and Supplies                                                       24.9    10.7       35.6       30        1
Subtotal Non-Bank-Financed Books, Intellectual Property and Materials                   25.6    11.0       38.65      30        2
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                                                         195.9   169.8      365.7        48      15
3. Consultant Services and Training
a. Architectural & Engineering Design Fees
Bank Financed A&E Services                                                            1.1        -        1.1 1
Non-Bank Financed A&E Services                                                       40.2        -       40.2         -       2
Subtotal Architectural & Engineering Design Fees                                        41.3       -       41.3         -       2
b. Specialized Services                                                                  3.9     0.7        4.6        16        -
c. In-country Training                                                                  33.2       -       33.2         -       1
d. Training Abroad                                                                       0.0     0.1        0.2       80         -
e. Studies and Research                                                                  2.7     0.7        3.3       20
Subtotal Consultant Services and Training                                                 81.0      1.5      82.6         2        3
4. Local Speciablsts/Technical Staff                                                       1.8       -        1.8         -        -
5. Monitoring Response Facility                                                            9.0     1.0       10.0        10        -
Total Investment Costs                                                                   1,381.2   331.4    1,712.6        19      71
II Recurrent Costs
A. Phase I
1. Incremental Salaries                                                                  650.0       -      650.0         -      27
2. Non-salary Incremental Operating Costs                                                  0.3     0.0        0.4        10        -
3. Regular and Preventive Maintenance /a                                                  31.6     4.5       36.1        12       2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                      681.9     4.5      686.4         1      29
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                   2,063.1   335.9    2,399.0        14     100
Physical Contingencies                                                                      75.3    24.1       99.4        24       4
Price Contingencies                                                                         11.6     5.2       16.8        31       1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                    2,150.0   365.2    2515.2         15     105
\a Building and equipment maintenance.
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Annex
page 3 of 4
Table 3C: Financing Plan by Project Component
Provincial
The Govemment  Administration   The Would Bank   National Donors        Total
Amount    %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %              Amount    %
A. Phase I
1. Expanded Basic Education Coverage
a. ConstructionandUpgradingofBasicEducationSchools   1,247.4    84.7    24.6     1.7    48.4     3.3   151.8    10.3   1,472.2    58.5
b. Teacher Training and Recwitment                    650.0   100.0       -       -        -       -       -       -      650.0    2S.8
Subtotal Expanded Basic Education Coverage            1,897.4    89.4    24.6      1.2    48.4     2.3   151.8     7.2   2,122.2    84.4
Z Improve Basic Education Quailty
a. In-service Training Programs                         5.8    15.7       -       -    31.2    84.2        -       -       37.0     1.5
b. Educational Materials                               44.1    47.1     2.0     2.1    47.6    50.8        -       -       937      3.7
c. Inrformation Technology                             28.8    14.6    14.8     7.5   154.0    78.0                -      197.6     7.9
d.Assessmentof LearningOutcomes                         0.1    15.8       -       -      0.7    84.3       -       -        0.9
Subtotal Improve Basic Education Quality                 78.8    24.0    16.8      5.1   233.5    70.9       -       -      329.1    13.1
3. Program Implementation
a. Program Management Team                             42.4    95.9       -       -      1.8     4.1       -       -       44.2     1.8
b. EMIS/School Mapping                                  0.6    14.6     0.3      7.6     3.0    778        -       -        3.9     0.2
Subtotal Program implementation                          42.9    89.3     0.3     0.6      4.8    101        -       -       48.1     1.9
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
a. SocialAssessment, MontoringandStudies                06    15.8        -       -      3.0    84.3                        3.5     0.1
b. Monitoring Response Facility                         1.6    16.4                      8.4    83.6               -       10.1     0.4
c. BasicEducation Promotion                             03     15.7  -_-                 19     842                -        22      0.1
SubtotalMonitoring andEvaluation                          2.5    161        -       -    132      839                        158      0.6
Total Disbursement                                  2,021.7    804    41.7       17   3000      11.9   151.8     6.0   2,515.2   100.0
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.



Annex 3
page 4 of 4
Table 3D: Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure
P-ovncIl1
The. Gornn-et   Ad.InlItralon   TheWorldBank   Na.UnallDono.              Total       OuS. a
Amount    S    Amount   %    Anount   %    Amount   S                Amount    %        Tons
1. Inwntmant Costs
A. PhaneI
1. School Condruction and Upgrading
a.Nw Const.rcon                                                                    802.5    84.1                        -            151.0    15.9    954.3    37.9    160.3
b. R.habilitatio- and Upgrading                                                    191.a    722        -       -    73.9    27.8         -       -      205.7    10.8      41.8
Shool Sbi Acuisition                                                              10.4   100.0       -       -        -       -        -       -      106.4     4.2      10.8
Subtotal School Construction and Upgrading                                         1,100.7    830        -       -    739       5.8   151.8    11.4    1,328.4    52.7    208.9
2. Equlpment and Matarlan
a School. Educational and Othar Equipment                                           54.8    97.08                     1.2     2.2        -       -         .91    2.2 2      .0
b. Sdcool Fumitumn                                                                  8.5   100.0        -       -        -       -        -       -       98.5     3.8      15.2
c. lntonma8on Technology
IT Hardna  fr Basic Education Scholn                                             21.1    15.8        -       -   113.0    84.2         -       -      134.2     5.3      21.1
IT SowarftorBasicEducatonSchools                                                  2.7    15.8        -             14.5    84.2                -       17.2     0.7       2.7
EMS Hardam orAPKIP-mincI1 Units                                                    0.5    15.7       -       -      2.8    54.3        -       -        3.0     0.1       0.5
EMISISchool Mapping Software and Dvlopnmnt                                         0.1    15.8       -       -      0.3    84.3        -       -        0.3       -       0.1
Subotal In,ormmtlon Technology                                                     24.4    15.8        -       -   130.4    84.3                       t154.8     62       2T
d. Bank-Financed Bookn, Intellectual Property and Maiterbia
Precibed Textboks                                                                 4.8    15.8        -       -    24.5    84.3         -       -       29.1     1.2       4.f
Library Books and Intellectual Propody                                             1 3    158        -       -      89     843         -       -       8.2      0.3       1.3
Teaching Maltaan and Supplin                                                       2.9    157        -       -    15.7    843          -       -       18.6     0.7       2.9
Subtohti Bank-Fln.an  d Books, Intellectual Property and Mateoals                    8.8    15.7       .             47.0    84.3                       55.8      2.2       8.8
*. Non-BankFi.nanc.d Books. Intellectual Propary and Mabalail
Ubrary Books and Int loc-Ial Property                                             0.9   100 0        -       -                                         09 S               01
Teaching Metodaln and Supplino                                                    3443    9405     2.0      5.5       -       -        -       -       3.3      1.4       5.7
Subtt   on-Bank-Financ-d Book, Intellectual Property and Materials                  35.2    54.8     2.0      5.4               -       -        -       37.2     1.5       5.9
Subtotal Equlprment and M.Ibdaln                                                    219.7    54.9      2.0     0.5   178.8    44.8        -        -     400.4    15.9       83.1
3. CanSaUtnt Sanvicna and Training
a. Anchibctural  Engineaelng Oesign Fees
Bank Financed A&E Sorc                                                            052     15.8       -       -      1.0    84.3       -        -        12        -       0.2
Nc-Bank Financed A&E Ser.ions                                                    40.2   100.0        -       -        -       -       -        -      402       1.6       63
Subtota Archedurl & Engineerdng Design FPae                                        40.4    97.0        -       -      1.0     2.4       .        -      41.4      1.        6.0
b.Spedalie  Servicen                                                                0.8    15.7        -          -   4.1     4.3       -        -       4.9      0.2       0.8
c Incuntry Training                                                                  5.8    15.7                     30.8    84.3                        30.8     1.5       5.8
d. Training Abroad                                                                   0.0    157                -      02     842        -        -        0.2       -       0.0
.. Studios and Research                                                             0.8    15.8        -       -      3.0    843        -        -       3.       0.1       0.8
Slbtotal Con-utant Saroia and Training                                               47.5    54.9        -       -    300      45.1        -       -        W       3.4       3T
4. Local Spacialitstnltchnicl Stafl                                                    1.8   100.0       -       -        -       -        -       -        1.8     0.1       0.3
S. Monitfong Rsponse Facility                                                          1.8    15.8               -      8.4    84.3        -       -       10.0     0.4       1.6
Total nveatent Coa."                                                                 1,371.3    75.1     2.0      01    3000     16.4   1518       8.3   1,825.1    72.b    287.5
IU. Reurent Coata
A. Phaae I
1. Incremental Salrion                                                              650.0   100.0        -       -        -       -       -        -     850.0    25.8    141.4
2. No-nyalory Incr-mnntal Opnraling Coots                                              0.4   100.0       -       -        -       -                -       0.4        -       0.1
3.Regular and Prcentiv Maintnancaa                                                      -        -    25.7   100.0        -       -        -               23.7     1.8       8.2
Tobl Recaurrnt Coa                                                                      50.4   94.3    397       5.7        -       -       -        -     80.0    27.4       147.7
Total Dlsbun-m-nt                                                                    2,021.7    80.4    41.7      1.7   300.0    119    151.8    8.0   29515.2   100.0    435.1
a Suilding and equipm-nt noint-n-nc.
Note: Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding



Annex 4
page 1 of 3
ANNEX 4
Basic Education Program
Economic Analysis Summary
Categories of Economic Analysis
The economic justification for the proposed investments in expanded coverage
and improved quality of basic education has several dimensions. Cost/effectiveness analysis
examines which combination of the various investment options deliver the Program objectives in
particular settings at least cost. Analysis of fiscal impacts describes the budget implications of
the proposed investments -- particularly, for operations and maintenance of the proposed
investments. Cost-benefit analysis describes the magnitude of expected benefits of the proposed
investment in relation to expected costs, appropriately discounted to account for the time lag
between investments and expected benefits. Each of these types of analysis has been carried out
for the Basic Education Program, and will continue to be carried out as the Program is
implemented.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis
The Ministry of National Education has calculated the annual cost of a student in
basic education according to the type of school -- including the annualized cost of investment
expenditures, teachers' and other staff salaries, bussing, maintenance, and other costs -- as
follows:'
Type of School                     Annual Cost per Student
Grade 1 - 5 School                           $264
Grade 6,- 8 School                           $293
Grade 1- 8 School                            $272
Regional Boarding School                         $761
Regional School with Pension                      $733
Central Bussing School                         $494
Clearly, a conventional school located where children live is generally the cheapest option for
providing basic education. But since unit costs rise sharply with very small enrollments, other
options of bussing students to centralized schools and sending students to boarding schools can
be cost-effective options in areas where population is extremely dispersed.
These calculations abstract from considerations of quality of education and social
preferences for different types of schools. The Ministry of National Education considers that it
is difficult to offer basic education of acceptable quality in very small schools -- in part, because
the hardships of teaching in small schools make it difficult to attract and retain qualified
teachers. On the other hand, smaller schools which are closer to the students they are meant to
1996/97 Ogretim Yili Ilkogretim Kurumlari ile Ilgili Iststiskiki Bilgiler, Ministry of National
Education, 1997. (Costs as calculated at the exchange rate $1.00 = TL 126,500.)



Annex 4
page 2 of 3
serve may be more consistent with social preferences in some areas, and may lead to higher
enrollments than centralized schools. The Program will monitor the cost effectiveness and the
educational effectiveness of school format options in terms of both school attendance and student
achievement. These findings will be used to refine the mix of school types as implementation
proceeds.
Analysis of Fiscal Impacts
The proposed investments will generate substantial incremental recurrent expenditures in
the form of personnel costs, and operation and maintenance costs of the new facilities. The full
Program would require about 150,000 additional basic education staff-a significant increase
from current levels. At current unit costs, this would raise the real teacher salary bill from $1.3
billion currently to approximately $2.1 billion. In addition, the Program is sponsoring the
expansion of enrollments in bussing schools and boarding schools, whose unit costs are
considerably higher than unit costs in conventional schools. These changes will add over $100
million to the annual cost of running  basic education  schools.   The incremental
maintenance/renewal costs for the information technology equipment (estimated at 10% of the
investment cost per annum) plus building maintenance (estimated at 2% of construction
investment costs) add up to another US$117 million annually, once the new facilities are
operational. The aggregate incremental recurrent cost of the entire Program amounts to over $1
billion per year. Continued broad public support for the goals of the Program will be necessary
in order to mobilize and sustain these recurrent resources. The proposed approach of financing
the Program in phases-this first phase represents less than a fifth of the total Program, and
would generate incremental recurrent costs of about US$130 million-also provides a test of the
durability of public support for the Program. Continuation of Bank financing beyond this first
phase will require continued broad support-including budget support-from the public and the
Government.
Benefit/Cost Analysis
Basic Education. The research evidence based on both macro- and micro-level data in
Turkey confirms the high rate of return to basic education. A recent econometric investigation
of the effects of education using macro-level data showed that a one-year increase in the average
educational attainment of the labor force is associated with a 0.21 percent increase in GDP.2
Micro-level findings indicate high benefits of basic education, particularly for women. Across
all labor-force categories, the average private rate of return to completion of basic education is
estimated at 9.6 percent, on the basis of data from the 1989 Household Labor Force Survey.
Earnings of working women who have completed basic education are 52 percent higher than
those of women who have not completed basic education. The rate of return for self-employed
women -- as many of the beneficiaries of the Program are expected to be -- is estimated at 14.9
percent.
2   Human Capital Approach to Economic Growth in Turkey, MS thesis by Huseyin Ergen, Middle East
Technical University, Department of Economics, September, 1996.
"Self-Employment, Wage Employment, and Returns to Education for Urban Men and Women in
Turkey", unpublished manuscript by Aysit Tansel, Middle East Technical University Department of
Economics, 1996.



Annex 4
page 3 of 3
These private financial rates of return tend to understate costs because they exclude
public expenditures on basic education. More importantly, they tend to understate benefits
because they exclude the non-earnings benefits of basic education, such as those associated with
lower fertility, more deliberate birth spacing, and better nutrition and child health associated with
higher educational attainment of mothers. (The average completed fertility of mothers in Turkey
who have completed basic education is 1.9, versus an average of 4.1 for all women, and of 5.6
for illiterate mothers.) They also exclude the social benefits of education such as improved
social cohesion, a more informed electorate, and a broader appreciation of the importance of
Turkey's integration in the world economy. These non-monetary benefits are major expected
benefits of the Program.
Rates of return to education reflect the evolution of the economy in a broad sense, and
are likely to change as rising incomes, changing technology, the changing pattern of trade, and
other factors lead to changes in the derived demand for labor of particular skill levels. The
evolution of the rate of return to basic education will be monitored as the Program is
implemented.
Quality Improvements: Introducing Computer Literacy. Rates of return for education
quality improvement are intrinsically more difficult to estimate than for expansion of
enrollments. Nevertheless, there is evidence of significant gains to improved quality. One area
of quality improvement which is amenable to benefit/cost analysis is the introduction of
computer literacy training. The project team estimated the benefit/cost ratio for computer
literacy training, based on observed earnings differentials for computer-literate and non-
computer-literate workers and on the cost of employer-provided training. (This approach
understates benefits in that it omits indirect benefits such as the effects of computer literacy on
the quality of teaching in other subject areas.) Even with very conservative assumptions as to
benefits," estimated benefit/cost ratios for computer literacy training under the Program range
from 10.5 to 26.5. Otherwise stated, the present value of estimated net benefits of the
information technology investment under the Program ranges from $6.6 billion to $16.6 billion.
4              It is assumed that sixteen thousand schools are provided with computers, that computers
have an estimated life of five years, and maintenance costs equal to 5 percent of purchase price per year.
Computer training costs are estimated as teacher costs and teacher training costs. Trained teachers are
assumed to remain in service an average of five years. No provision is made for the opportunity cost of the
time spent in teacher training for teachers. (It is assumed that this cost is easily offset by time savings for
teachers from using computers in the classroom.) In the schools which are scheduled to receive computers
under the Program, it is assumed that five year's worth of school graduates become computer literate, and
remain so throughout an average working life of twenty years, starting at age 19. The average class size is
43, implying that, at peak, 688,000 computer-literate students will be produced per year. No students
begin training in Year 1, 344,000 begin in year 2 and 688,000 begin in Year 3. The training which will be
provided under the Program is enough to make students a computer-functional editor or secretary. In the
low-benefit model, it is assumed that 10 percent of graduates use computing skills in their employment. In
the high benefit model, it is assumed that 25 percent of graduates use computing skills in their work.
Information collected during preparation missions from informatics firms and associations indicate
computer literacy is worth at least $8,100 to employees (in saved training and opportunity costs). The
average value of computer literacy to an employer is assumed to be about half this amount, or $4,000. It is
assumed that this is the earnings supplement for computer-literate graduate who use computing skills in
their work.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 8
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
May 26, 1998
RE:  Basic Education Program, Turkey
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C., 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
This Letter of Sector Policy sets out the main featul-es of the Government of Turkey's Basic
Education Program. The Program represents a significant and unprecedented landmark in
Turkish history and our efforts to invest in humani resources in order to prepare our
population for the challeniges of integration in the global economy. Basic education, and
particularly the expansion of our five year compulsory cycle to eight years, is a centerpiece
of the Government's curr-ent Five-Year Development Plan (l996-2000).l Under our
strategy, we seek to achieve universal attendance in eight-year basic education and to
improve significantly the quality of basic education. In order to fulfill these objectives, the
Program pays particular attentioni to ensuring the full access to basic education for all
children up to 14 years old. The Government hereby requests the World Bank's assistance,
in the form of a series of Adjustable Program Loans, with an initial commitment of US$ 600
million and a first APL of US$ 300 million, to support the implemenitation of this initiative.
The intention of the Ministry is to start the processing of the second phase of the Loan as
soon as the following objectives are accomplished: a) arranging the provision of the basic
package of educational materials to all rmral schools; b) staltilg the upgrade about 200
village schools in agreed provinces; c) implementing the in-service training program for
teachers, school principals, and inspectors, d) carrying out the monitoring and social
assessment prOgram; e) providing a plan for,.he school infi-astructure program; f) finalizing
specifications and bidding documents for the second phase of the IT procurement; and g)
committing 60% of the Loan.
The Government of Turkey and the World Bank have a long history of collaboration and
productive dialogue on basic education, which provides a strong foundation for our
partnership under the new Program. Beginning with the 1990 Jomtien "Conference on
Education for All," jointly sponsored by the World Bank, UNICEF and UNESCO, the
Government initiated discussions witlh the Bank on possible assistance for a program to
Seventh Five Year Development Plan 11996-2000). State Planning Organisation: 1995, Ankara, p. 221.
4,



Annex 5
Page 2 of 8
Government initiated discussions with the Bank on possible assistance for a program to
expand compulsory basic education in Turkey. Elements of the Government's strategy for
basic education, including quality improvements in teacher training and curriculum
development, were included in the system-wide National Education Development Project
(NEDP) which was approved by the Bank's Executive Board in 1990.
In 1995, the Government requested support for a Basic Education Pilot Project (BEPP), by
amendment to NEDP, in order to develop and test more tailored programs for the
expansion of the compulsory basic education cycle. This Project has been under
implementation since 1996 through partnership between the Ministry of National
Education (MONE), UNICEF and the WorLd Bank. Activities -- including capacity
expansion through renovation and upgrading of existing school facilities, and targeted
interventions to improve school attendance in rural areas -- have provided valuable lessons
and experience.
In August 1997, the Government greatly facilitated and accelerated its efforts to implement
eight-year basic education, through parliamentary approval of Law No. 4306 for Basic
Education. The law mobilizes significant resources for a major investment in school
facilities through earmarked taxes, establishes a timetable for the Program, and streamlines
procedures to allow for swift action and implementation.2 This framework legislation
ensures political and fiscal commitment to the Program, and has engaged the interest and
support of the public. Voluntary cash and in-kind contributions from the public have
increased to unprecedented levels and amount to a notable share of the resources available
for the first year of the Program.
The Government's Program adopts a broad approach to basic education, and defines its
benefits as reaching far beyond those which directly affect students in the classroom, to
those which involve the families who are enriched by the education of their children, and
their own participation in educational activities. Under the Program, schools are envisaged
to be resource centers which will be accessible to the local community. Complementary
activities which prepare children for basic school and facilitate educational attainment,
including the extension of access to early child development programs, literacy and skill
development for adults are also incorporated. The Program, which is designed to be
implemented in three phases, aims to achieve the following:
(i)    Expanding universal 8-year basic education;
(ii)  Improving the quality of educational instruction and materials, including
computer-aided teaching and leaming;
(iii)  Strengthening management capacity to provide basic education; and
(iv)   Monitoring and evaluation to guide the implementation of the Program.
Since the passage of the Basic Education Law last August, considerable progress has been
made toward the implementation of these objectives. In preparation for the Program, the
MONE undertook a number of feasibility studies and consultations with key stakeholders
to define objectives and actions further. In December 1997, the Minister of National
2 The details of the Program are included in the MONE's publication: Eight-Year Compulsory Basic Education, December
29, 1997.
4                                 2



Annex 5
Page 3 of 8
Education appointed a technical team for program preparation to coordinate the overall
preparation of the Programn in close collaboration with the relevant ministerial line units
and the provincial offices of the Ministry. In March, 1998, it elevated the head of the team
to the position of Deputy Undersecretary in order to facilitate effective implementation,
Through the team, the Ministry has defined the core activities to be initiated during the first
phase of the Program, and has begun to identify activities for the second and third phases.
The shift to a compulsory eight year basic education system requires investments in key
inputs -- facilities and teachers. Capacity expansion is needed both to bring all children of
school age into the system, and to relieve current overcrowding. Largely due to economic
reasons, some school age children in rural zeas as well as in urban slums (gecekondu) do
not attend school and girls enrollments are much lower than boys. Primary schools are
generally available in rural areas, but high teacher turnover due to difficult living
conditions and, in some cases, security concerns -- limit access. There is also a shortage of
basic school capacity for 6-8 grades particularly in many villages , and not all students have
access to centralized basic education schools through bussing, or boarding schools.
Our priorities under the Program are to provide capacity for the student population which is
not in basic education and to relieve overcrowding in both rural and urban areas. This will
be phased in over the next three years, such that current fifth graders will continue on to
sixth grade in the 1998 school year. An estimated 30,650 new classrooms will be needed
over the next three years to allow all students to continue on to 6-8 grades, and 50,000
classrooms will be needed to accommodate students in all grades who are currently not
attending school. Additional classroom capacity will be added to alleviate overcrowding
and to reduce gradually the number of double-shift schools. Universal coverage will be
facilitated through the creation of new school capacity, better teacher recruitment and
incentives, and improved public information about basic education. Quality improvements
are also targeted at raising student, parental interest and involvement in schools and
promoting attendance.
We are addressing the need for added capacity in two ways, through new construction and
the renovation of existing schools. Because of the urgency of the Program, and the need to
provide an estimated 479,180 student places by the start of the 1998 school year, the
Government has mobilized an extensive effort to identify needs and initiate construction
for the first phase of the program.
Preparation has been greatly facilitated by the compilation, under the Pilot Project, of a
Standards Manualfor School Buildings, which establishes and updates the Ministry's
design norms for schools -- including classroom furnishings, boarding facilities, and
teacher housing where appropriate. Based on the Manual, the MONE commissioned
prototype designs for school construction from architectural and engineering teams from
five national universities, which will be used for detailed planning and school construction.
Planning for the first wave of construction has been conducted through provincial officials
of the Ministry. Because of the need to act swiftly to define the construction priorities for
the first phase of the Program, the Ministry has relied on estimates to develop its
infrastructure plan. We are currently refining this methodology for subsequent phases of
3



Annex 5
Page 4 of 8
the Program, in order to ensure better targeting and cost-effectiveness of investments, and
to incorporate measures for long-term strengthening of its school planning capacity into the
Program.
We plan to construct approximately 15,795 classrooms during the first phase of the
Program, and an additional 105,705 during the second and third phases. This is an
unprecedented effort in Turkey, and requires close coordination within the MONE, and its
provincial offices. Construction will be supervised by four separate regional construction
management consultancy firms, which have already been contracted.
Under the Program, we plan to act quickly ao renovate a large number of village schools
which are in need of renovations and upgrading. In addition to the MONE renovation, a set
of 300 rural and central village schools and about 40 urban schools are scheduled for
upgrading during the first phase of the Program through the Bank's financing. The
Ministry is currently in the process of identifying priority areas, and will rely on its
provincial offices to identify the needy schools. Following selection, a needs assessment,
involving teachers and parents, will be conducted to plan the remodelling. Construction of
the Bank financed schools will be carried out by local contractors.
The availability of highly qualified and motivated teachers is an essential requirement for
the success of the Program. We have undertaken a number of important measures to staff
the new schools and to improve the overall efficiency of teacher allocation across Turkey,
including (i) systemic reforms of pre-service teacher training; (ii) temporary measures --
including the use of volunteer retired teachers -- to increase teacher supply; and (iii)
changes to regulations on teacher assignment and compensation, which have already been
adopted.
Restructuring of pre-service teacher training, initiated under the National Education
Development Project (NEDP) in 1990, has increased the quality and flexibility of the
training system, enabling it to adapt to the needs of the Program. NEDP has fostered a
close collaboration between the Higher Education Council (YOK), and the MONE, to
improve the quality of teacher training, through redesigned curricula and study abroad
fellowships, as well as improved conditions at teacher training colleges. This is a major
reform that has refocused faculties of education into teacher training. The MONE and YOK
are also coordinating closely to improve human resource planning over the short and long -
term.
As a result, YOK is also adjusting admission policies of faculties of education and teacher
training programs to meet MONE needs -- and particularly for the imnmediate requirements
of the Basic Education Program. MONE estimates that it will need to hire 150,000 new
teachers over the next three years to reach its targets under the Program. In response, YOK
has adopted a number of initiatives, including introducing new training prograrns for
English teachers and pre-school teachers, and adapting certification programs for secondary
school teachers --who are currently in oversupply -- to basic education. These initiatives are
expected to train an additional 30,000 to 40,000 teachers annually over the next three years,
in addition to the approximately 17,000 teachers who graduate annually from education
programs. The MONE has also made provisions to allow retired teachers to return to work
4



Annex 5
Page 5 of 8
on a volunteer basis.
We are also in the process of implementing changes in personnel policies, which will
greatly improve the allocation of teachers. Insufficient incentives for teachers to serve in
some rural areas lead to significant imbalances in teacher supply, and constrain student
attendance. To address this issue, last fall the Government approved a substantial increase
in compensation for hardship ranging from 60 to 150 percent for teachers working in
difficult areas. In addition legislation which became effective on April 4, 1998 increased
teacher pay by another 18 percent over the existing teacher pay scale.
The Program aims to expand access to basi. education rapidly, while simultaneously
improving education quality to improve learning achievements and prepare our children for
the challenges of the twenty-first century. The revised basic education curriculum includes
elements, including foreign language and computer literacy training, which are specifically
directed at enabling students to compete more effectively in the global marketplace and to
further contribute to the social and economic progress of Turkey.
Quality improvements are inextricably linked to our objective of reaching universal
participation in basic education. High quality teachers, schools and materials improve the
overall value and attractiveness of education to families, and are essential for maintaining
and encouraging attendance and parental involvement. Similarly, targeted programs for
disadvantaged groups, including free of charge provision of educational materials and
school meals, serve both to increase attendance and improve student performance. Under
the Program, quality improvements include training of education staff, provision of
education materials, textbooks, and information technology, and targeted programs to assist
students coming from low income families. The flexible Program design, including the
incorporation of a 'Monitoring Response Facility' allows for the development of additional
quality-enhancing activities during implementation in response to local needs and
initiatives.
We plan to advance the skills and motivation of education staff across the system,
including inspectors, teachers, principals and provincial officials of the MONE. In
accordance with our approach to basic education, training programs for all staff will
emphasize the role of educators as leaders within the local community.
Inspectors are the key players responsible for organizing and implementing in-service
training activities for teachers and education managers, and for providing on-site support to
teachers through school visits. We will continue and expand these activities under the
Program, through the hiring of additional inspectors -- in order to provide teachers with
more frequent contact and mentoring opportunities.
Training for education managers and principals aims to strengthen management capacity at
the school level, in order to improve decision-making, parental participation and support
for teachers' professional development. Improvements in local level management will
enhance school performance. We have already developed a number of in-service training
courses for managers addressing education planning, communication, leadership training
and the use of technology in schools.
4                                   5



Annex 5
Page 6 of 8
Counselling is an important ingredient for improving student performance and preparing
students for post-basic education and employment. Expansion of five year compulsory
basic education cycle to 8 years will greatly increase students' options and opportunities for
employment and further study. The Ministry is in the process of developing a resource
guide on guidance issues, including psychological counselling and career guidance for
teachers and school managers, and plans to incorporate training on guidance and
counselling into the in-service training curriculum for teachers and administrators.
We aim to raise education quality and, in particular, to enable students from very low
income families to have high quality educa .on by providing them with basic education
school materials.
Building an infornation workforce is an important challenge for us as we implement our
strategy for economic development based on open competitive markets. Our young
population is potentially the nation's greatest competitive asset, provided that the talent and
skill-base central to an information-based economy can be developed. In light of the
increasing demand for information-oriented jobs that require basic informatics skills, and
the technological shift towards personal computing and distributed applications, we
recognize the need for a strategy to broaden the diffusion of computer literacy. From an
equity as well as an efficiency perspective, informatics literacy can play a pivotal role in
our economic and social development by adding a greater technological element to the
service and manufacturing sectors. The Ministry of National Education intends under the
BEP "that all basic education age students have access to computers in the learning
process" in order to attain computer literacy, support and enhance the existing curricula,
and open the computer laboratories to the local community as technology-intensive
learning environments.
Under the Program, we seek to enhance learning by using IT as a productive tool across the
basic education curriculum. Instructional use of IT can have various objectives, ranging
from imparting basic skills in routine applications such as data entry or word processing, to
facilitating learning in other subjects (foreign languages, science, math, etc.,) to conveying
more advanced skills such as Internet research, or programming. These objectives are not
mutually exclusive, but they do imply different learning outcomes, and have different
operational requirements.
In preparation for the Program, we are currently developing essential documents for the use
of technology to support education reform including: (i) a policy paper for the rationale and
plans for using IT to support various kinds of learning activities, including a clear set of
goals that can be communicated to teachers, students, parents, and industry alike; (ii) a
strategy paper on methods for integrating IT into the curriculum, including approaches for
educational software provision, teaching computer literacy, organizing continuous teacher
training, and quality assurance; and (iii) a 3-year model plan for schools in using IT in the
curriculum each week, including competencies to be developed, software to be used,
individual/group approaches, teacher training, extracurricular usage of the laboratories, and
community activities.
6



Annex 5
Page 7 of 8
School quality will be additionally improved through greater parental involvement and
participation in school-based activities. The Program includes an innovative component,
the Monitoring Response Facility (MRF), which will allow Parent Teacher Associations
(PTAs), school committees and other school based organizations to apply for funds to
support local initiatives consistent with the Basic Education Program. The MRF will
provide direct support to schools to facilitate the implementation of innovative projects
which will be approved based on pre-defined set of criteria, and help them respond to
special needs, such as responding to needs of special groups of children (e.g., disabled).
Activities supported through the MRF will build upon the results of the studies and
assessments carried out under the monitoring and evaluation component of the Program,
and allow for innovation and creativity.
Our existing social aid program for improving school attendance and performance for low
income students will be supported and expanded through the Program. Under this
initiative, the MONE uses its network of girls vocational schools and adult education
centers to make and provide school uniforms and meals to poor students. The program is
actively supported through donations from the public. Evidence illustrates that the
provision of social aid positively impacts school attendance and student performance. We
intend to extend the coverage of the program under the Basic Education Program to include
all bussing schools, as well as to rural primary schools and pre-schools.
We intend to implement the Basic Education Program by mobilizing and harnessing the
existing capacity and resources of the Ministry of National Education. A Program
Coordination Team (PCT), headed by a full-time team leader reporting directly to the
Undersecretary in the Ministry, will administer the Program in coordination with the
relevant ministerial line units. The PCT will also interact closely with MONE provincial
offices. Specialized consultants will be hired by the PCT as needed to lend expertise in the
implementation of the various aspects of the Program.
The PCT will coordinate activities between the line units of the Ministry and the Bank.
Five coordinators will be assigned in the following areas: (i) infrastructure, (ii) information
technology, (iii) education, (iv) monitoring and evaluation, and (v) financing and
procurement.
We will rely on monitoring and social impact assessments as key instruments for guiding
Program implementation and development. On-going evaluation will provide us with
essential feedback for gauging progress, making course corrections, and responding to
changing circumstances and lessons leamed. Monitoring will be based on four groups of
indicators: input, process, output, and impact. Specialized studies and assessments will be
undertaken throughout the Program, on topics including pre-school education, community-
based education programs, social assistance programs, and working children and other
groups in need of social aid. We will also implement on-going assessments of learning
achievements, building upon the exams and evaluation tools developed under the National
Education Development Project. Other studies will be formulated as need emerges and can
be financed through the Monitoring Response Facility. Monitoring will be carried out by
the Program Coordination Team together with MONE line units.
7



Annex 5
Page 8 of 8
We will evaluate the results of monitoring efforts in a participatory manner at several
levels. First, the Program Coordination Team will evaluate the results jointly with the
relevant MONE line units, as well as the provincial and sub-provincial education
administrators. This will be an important mechanism for creating local level capacity for
Program monitoring and evaluation. The results will also be shared with the regular
national seminars the MONE holds for consultative purposes. Joint evaluation by the Bank
and the MONE will also be periodically conducted.
Analysis of the learning outcomes of the Basic Education Program is a core monitoring and
evaluation activity. This Spring, building on the existing assessment tools developed under
NEDP, we plan to administer representativ2 surveys to assess learning achievements in
four subjects: Turkish, science, math and social studies. This will be expanded to include
computer literacy and foreign language proficiency in 1999 and subsequent years. The
results of the exams will be useful tools for identifying Program successes and
shortcomings, and adjusting Prograrn interventions accordingly.
As evidenced by the wave of voluntary contributions, and intense public interest and
debate, popular support for the Basic Education Program is strong across the country.
However, because of the complex nature of the Program, it will be necessary to regularly
share timely information on its objectives, activities and progress with the public in order
to maintain the existing level of attention. Communication is also important for reinforcing
the compulsory nature of basic education in more remote areas.
In order to address these needs, we have incorporated a range of public relations activities
into the program, including information dissemination through advertisements,
publications, public discussions and other media activities. These activities will benefit
from our experience under the Basic Education Pilot Project, and the feedback provided by
the on-going monitoring and evaluation activities included in the Program.
The Basic Education Program provides us with an historic opportunity to invest in our
future and to prepare our children for the challenges of the twenty-first century. Through
our efforts to achieve universal access to eight-year basic education and to improve
education quality, we will elevate Turkey's stature and competitiveness in the international
community. Our partnership with the World Bank in this effort will strengthen our
prospects for success.
Sincerely yours,
Hikmet Ulugbay
Minister of National Education
8



Annex 6
Turkey Basic Education Program
Procurement Arrangements and Allocation of the Loan Proceeds
Part I. Procurement
1.    This section describes the procurement arrangements under the first Adjustable Program Loan
(APL) in support of the Basic Education Program (BEP). Goods and services to be financed by the Bank
would be carried out in accordance with the following Bank Guidelines: (i) procurement of works and
goods -- Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January
and August 1996, and September 1997 (Procurement Guidelines); and (ii) specialist/consultant
services/training -- Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
dated January 1997, revised September 1997 (Consultant Guidelines)). Works, goods and services
which are not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with arrangements agreed
between the financier and the Government. The Government's high commitment to the project
prompted the issuance last August 1997, by virtue of Basic Education Law 4306, of a Procurement
Protocol agreed between the Ministry of National Education (MONE) and the Ministry of Finance in
order to facilitate procurement processes for the implementation of the BEP. However, a number of key
provisions of this Protocol are inconsistent with Bank Procurement Guidelines. The Protocol as
approved by Government had not incorporated the recommendations of the Bank's Country
Procurement Assessment Report for Turkey (August 1996), and, therefore, will not be used for Bank-
financed elements of the Program. A General Procurement Notice was published in the Development
Business of the United Nations in April 1998. Thereafter, for consultant contracts above US$200,000,
specific procurement notices would be published in the Development Business and in a major local
newspaper, 30 days prior to availability of bidding documents.
2.    Implementation responsibility is to be shared by the Ministry of National Education and its
Provincial Offices. Policy guidance is to be provided by a Program Steering Committee comprising
heads of the relevant MONE Directorates. Overall management of Program implementation at the
central level will be carried out by the existing management infrastructure of the MONE under the direct
responsibility of the Undersecretary, and under the coordination of a Program Coordination Team
(PCT) headed by a Deputy Undersecretary with full-time responsibility for oversight of the Program.
The PCT will comprise five units staffed with seconded MONE staff and consultants, respectively
responsible for civil works, infornation technology, educational interventions, monitoring and
evaluation, and Program administration. The PCT is reinforced by MONE procurement specialists who
have gained substantial experience in the implementation of the National Education and the Basic
Education Pilot Projects. The PCT will be assisted by full-time Procurement Management Specialist.
At the province and sub-province the Program is to be implemented under the authority of the provincial
Governors with the Provincial Education Directors playing the lead technical role on educational matters.
All Bank-financed goods and services will be procured centrally by the PCT. Procurement of new
construction works will be implemented by MONE. Rehabilitation and upgrading works will be the
responsibility of the Provincial Offices under the general oversight of the PCT. Procurement progress
will be reported to the Bank in an agreed format in semi-annual project monitoring reports. A Project
Launch Seminar would be held in July 1998 to reaffirm the Borrower's and implementing units'
understanding of the procurement procedures under the BEP.



Annex 6
page 2 of 11
3.    The procurement arrangements are described in the following paragraphs. Table 6A summarizes
the project elements, their estimated costs, and the applicable procurement methods. Table 6B outlimnes
the thresholds for procurement methods and prior review. A Procurement Plan will be included in the
Project Implementation Plan for the First Phase of the BEP.
(a)    Procurement of Works. Works contract packages estimated to cost at least US$5.0
million per contract package would be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines. Works contracts financed by the
Bank are confined to (i) the rehabilitation and upgrading of about 200 existing rural primary
schools for grades 1-5 (average US$40,000 per school); (ii) rehabilitation and upgrading of about
100 existing central village schools for grades 1-8 (average US$200,000 per school); (iii)
upgrading of 40 urban Basic Education schools in Ankara (average US$625,000 per school); and
(iv) refurbishing of 2,828 information technology (IT) classrooms in 2,451 schools (average
US$10,000 per IT classroom). Packaging these works into large contracts suitable for ICB is not
feasible nor practical because of their limited scope, wide geographic dispersal and
characteristics (i.e. largely consisting of building repair and upgrading work). Furthermore,
Turkey has an extensive, well-developed and internationally competitive construction industry
which would ensure that adequate competition and good quality construction is obtained. There
are no works packages expected to be procured through ICB under the first APL. Thus, works
contracts estimated at less than US$5.0 million per package (aggregate US$25.1 million) would
be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in accordance with procedures and
documentation agreed with the Bank. Contracts estimated at less than US$300,000 per package
(aggregate US$62.6 million) would be procured using procedures and documentation acceptable
to the Bank for the Procurement of Minor Works, based on at least three quotations obtained
from qualified domestic contractors responding to written requests. Non-Bank financed workS
procurement. Works contracts financed exclusively by the Government and/or other cofinanciers
(aggregate US$1,130.0 million), as well as school site acquisitionldevelopment costs (aggregate
US$106.4 million) would be procured according to arrangements described under the
Procurement Protocol mentioned above in paragraph 1.
(b)    Procurement of Goods. Goods to be financed by the Bank consist of: (i) information
technology (IT) hardware and software for schools and the MONE Council of Research,
Planning and Coordination (APK); (ii) office equipment for the PCT; (iii) books, library
materials and intellectual property; and (iv) training materials and supplies. Goods packages
(consisting of IT equipment, books and educational materials) estimated to cost more than
US$400,000 per contract package would be procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank
Procurement Guidelines. IT equipment and software will be procured as separate packages and
using a single-stage procurement procedure, because these hardware and software items are
basic/standard information technology goods that do not require critical compatibility
characteristics. Domestic Preference. In the evaluation and comparison of bids for goods, a
margin of preference of 15 percent or the relevant duty (whichever is lower) would be granted in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Specifically, library books and textbooks estimated to cost
less than US$400,000 per package (aggregate US$4.4 million) may be procured through
National Competitive Bidding in accordance with documentation and procedures agreed with
the Bank. Other goods packages estimated to cost less than US$400,000 per package (aggregale
US$900,000) may be procured through International Shopping (IS) on the basis of at least
three quotations obtained from suppliers from two eligible source countries in accordance with
Bank Procurement Guidelines. Goods contracts (consisting training materials and supplies -



Annex 6
page 3 of 11
aggregate US$1.1 million) estimated at less than US$100,000 per contract may be procured
through National Shopping (NS) on the basis of at least three quotations obtained from
domestic suppliers in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Should there be a need to procure any
goods which: (i) would be an extension of an existing contract; (ii) must be purchased from the
original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment; (iii) are of a proprietary nature; (iv)
must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a performance guarantee; or (v) are
required to respond to a natural disaster, such goods may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be
procured in accordance with the provisions of the Bank Procurement Guidelines respective of
Direct Contracting, and would be limited to US$1.0 million in the aggregate. Non-Bank
financed goods include school/educational equipment (e.g., for school laboratories, teaching,
administrative and service facilities) and school furniture (desks, bookshelves, etc.), which
would be procured in accordance with the Procurement Protocol mentioned above in para 1.
(c)    Consultant Services. Consultant services financed by the Bank (aggregate US$9.9
million) include, among others: (i) program implementation support, procurement, and financial
management expertise; (ii) education specialists in the areas of: educational achievement and
testing; community education; information communication and promotion programs; monitoring
and evaluation; social assessment; macro impact modeling; information technology; and
educational Management Information Systems; and (iii) architectural engineering services.
About half (aggregate US$4.8 million) of these consulting services would be contracted to
consultant firms and awarded on the basis of the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)
procedure. Studies and research contracts (aggregate US$3.5 million) would be awarded to
firms/institutions on the basis of Quality Based Selection (QBS) procedures. Some of the
consulting requirements (particularly, those for educational achievement and testing under item
(ii) above, as well as program implementation specialists - aggregate US$1.3 million) may be
best suited to individual specialists. In such cases, individual consultants would be contracted on
the basis of the consultants' qualifications for the assignment. There may be multiple
packages under each selection method, as the assignments consist of a wide range of tasks that
are not practical to combine under single contracts. In any case, the PCT would carefully plan
the consultant contract packages and consolidate those assignments which complement each
other. Non-Bank financed consulting and specialist seuices include: architectural and
engineering design services for all construction works which are not financed by the Bank;
construction management; and local technical and support personnel of the PCT. These services
would be procured following normal Government procedures.
(d)   In-service Training. The MONE  would develop an initial plan for carrying out
seminars and in-service training workshops which would be submitted for prior review to the
Bank. This training plan would include, inter alia, the content, audience, schedule, location, and
estimated costs. The status of the plan would be included as part of the semi-annual progress
reports and would be updated and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between MONE and
the Bank, The training program expenditures (US$36.8 million aggregate) consist of: a limited
number of study tours abroad; and local training which include, among others, the provision of
in-service training materials and handouts, subsistence and internal travel costs incurred by
trainees, trainers' fees and course preparation. The subsistence rates and trainer fees for local
training are based on Government rates of US$5.00 per teacher per week and trainers fees of
US$15 per week. Training expenditures would be directly reimbursed subject to presentation by
the PCT of Statements of Expenditure, which would be audited annually. Consultants to
coordinate/facilitate training seminars may be hired under individual contracts. In the case of
study tours and training abroad, MONE would develop an initial plan which would include the



Annex 6
page 4 of II
purpose, names/titles of participants, along with itinerary and estimated costs; proposed training
institution; and costs. The training plan would be submitted for prior review by the Bank. The
status of the plan would be included as part of the semi-annual progress reports and updated
and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between the MONE and the Bank. Expenditures
related to such study tours including training fees, transportation and subsistence expenses of the
participants would be disbursed against SOEs.
(e)    Monitoring Response Facility (MRF). The Program includes a facility (US$10.0
million) for disbursing against demand driven subproject proposals for innovative educational
activities consistent with the objectives of the BEP. Acceptance of the subprojects will Ibe
subject to evaluation criteria developed by MONE and agreed with the Bank.
(f)    Operating Costs of PCT. The Program costs include the incremental operating costs: (i)
for operations of the PCT consisting of, inter alia, office and computer equipment maintenance;
office supplies; travel of the PCT personnel; bank charges and fees to maintain a Special
Account; translation and interpretation services; communication charges (including international
telephone calls, facsimile transmissions and electronic mail); local and international transport
related to the project and other administrative costs as may be agreed; and (ii) salaries of PCT
technical and support staff.  All incremental operating costs would be financed by the
Government. The PCT would include, as a separate part of the semi-annual consolidated reports,
an update of the PCT expenditures to complete the information required for Program cost
monitoring by the Bank.
4.    Agreements at Negotiations. During negotiations, the Government agreed to: (a) prepare
standard documentation for the procurement of works through National Competitive Bidding (NCBR),
procurement of goods through NCB, and for the procurement of Minor Works in accordance with
Bank Procurement Guidelines; and (b) present this documentation for the Bank's comments an,d
concurrence prior to the issuance of bids.
5.    Bank Review. The Borrower would use the following Bank Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) for procurement of works, goods and services financed by the Bank: (a) SBD - Procurement of
Goods (April 1995) for the procurement of goods under ICB; (b) SBD - Procurement of Works, Smaller
Contracts (January 1995), would be adapted for use under the NCB procedures, and would be submitted
to the Bank in draft for review prior to its use (see para 4 above); (c) the Region's standard documents
for the procurement of Minor Works for such works contracts; (d) Standard Bid Evaluation Form for
Procurement of Goods or Works (April 1996) for the evaluation of bids procured through ICB. For the
evaluation of contracts awarded under NCB procedures, the Borrower will use the NCB Evaluation
Format developed by the Eastern Europe and Central Asia Regional Department; and (e) Standardi
Request for Proposal - Selection of Consultants (July 1997) for the procurement of consultant services.
6.    The Bank's prior review of procurement action would cover the following. The Terms olf
Reference (TOR) and consultants' qualifications for all assignments would be subject to Bank's prior
review. The Bank's prior review is expected to cover about 62 percent of all expenditures/contracts
financed by the Bank Loan.
(a)   all goods and works contracts awarded through ICB.
(b)   the first 3 works contracts awarded through NCB.
(c)   the first 3 contracts for goods awarded through NCB.
(d)   the first 3 Minor Works contracts.



Annex 6
page 5 of 11
(f)    all consulting contracts exceeding US$100,000 awarded to consulting firms.
(g)    all consulting contracts exceeding US$50,000 awarded to individual consultants.
(h)   the first five subprojects, regardless of the amount, awarded from the Monitoring
Response Facility. Thereafter, all MRF subprojects awarded exceeding US$100,000.
(i)    any/all contracts awarded under Direct Contracting procedures.
(j)    after award of contract, any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of
a contract resulting in an increase above 15% of the original contract amount (including
the modifications in contracts for consulting services).
7.    All project documentation which require prior-review would be reviewed and cleared by a Bank
Procurement Specialists and relevant technical staff. Bidding packages above the mandatory review
thresholds are anticipated for the procurement of: (a) IT hardware and software (US$154.8 million
aggregate); and (b) books and teaching materials (US$51.0 million aggregate). All other procurement
documents and procedures would be subject to the Bank's ex-post review on a random basis. Post
review of procurement contracts would be normally be undertaken during Bank supervision of project
implementation, or, as the Bank may request the Borrower for particular contracts which had been
awarded by the Borrower without the benefit of Bank prior review. In such cases, the Borrower will
provide the Bank, for its review, with the relevant documentation (invitation to bid/request for proposals,
instructions to bidders, conditions of contract, etc.) leading up to the culmination of the bidding process,
minutes of bid opening, bid evaluation report, recommendations, and copies of the bid proposals. The
post review will be conducted by the Bank's Procurement Accredited Staff, either during supervision
missions or at Bank headquarters. The outcome of the post review will be communicated by the Bank to
the Borrower at the earliest possible time.
8.    Procurement Monitoring/Reporting. The Borrower's PCT will keep a complete and up-to-
date record of all procurement documentation and relevant correspondence in its files, which would be
reviewed by Bank staff during supervision missions. Procurement Planning. Prior to the issuance of any
invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed Procurement Plan for the project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph I of Appendix I to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works
shall be undertaken in accordance with the Procurement Plan as will have been approved by the Bank.
The Procurement Plan, which reflects the procurement arrangements, contract packaging, applicable
procedures and the scheduling of the procurement process, would be updated annually by the PCT.
Monitoring reports on procurement progress would be submitted semi-annually as part of the semi-
annual report on program implementation. All contracts would be listed, including contracts to be bid.
Data would include type of contract, contract amount, critical dates, payments to date, and current status.
Where appropriate, estimates for contracts not yet bid or signed would be included in the procurement
data.



Annex 6
page 6 of 11
Table 6A: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(Amounts in US$ million)
Procurement Method
Consulting
ICB   a/  NCB  b/  Other    Services    N.B.F. c/  Total
1. School Construction and Upgrading
a. New Construction                                    -          -          -           -      954.3 d/   954.3
b. Rehabilitation and Upgrading                       -        25.1 el    62.6 f/               178.0 d/   265.7
(21.1)     (52.8)                             (73.9)
c. School Site Acquisition                             -          -          -           -      106.4 d/    106.4
2. Equipment and Materials
a. School, Educational and Other Equipment             -          -         1.5 gt       -       54.6 h/    56.1
(1.2)                             (1.2)
b. School Furniture                                    -          -          -           -       96.5 h/     96.5
c. Information Technology                          154.8          -          -           -          -       154.8
(130.4)                                                  (130.4)
d. Books, Intellectual Property and Materials
Textbooks and Library Books                      31.4         5.8 i/       -           -          -        37.2
(26.5)      (4.9)                                        (31.4)
Teaching Materials and Supplies                  18.1           -        0.5 j/        -       37.2 k/     55.8
(15.2)                 (0.4)                             (15.7)
3. Consultant Services and Training
a. Architectural & Engineering Services               -           -          -         1.2 I/    40.2 m/    41.4
(1.0)                  (1.0)
b. Specialized Services                               -           -          -         4.9 n/       -         4.9
(4.1)                  (4.1)
c. Staff and Teacher Training                          -          -       36.5 of      0.3 p/       -        36.8
(30.7)      (0.2)                 (31.0)
d. Studies and Research                                -          -          -         3.5 qi       -         3.5
(3.0)                  (3.0)
4. Local Specialists/Technical Staff                     -          -          -           -         1.8 r/     1.8
a.
5. Monitoring Response Facility                         -           -          -        10.0 S/       -        10.0
a.                                                                                   (8.4)                   (8.4)
6. Incremental Recurrent Costs
a. Incremental Salaries                               -           -          -           -      650.0 V    650.0
b. Non-salary Operational Costs                       -           -          -           -       40.0 ul    40.0
otal                                                  204.3       30.9       101.1       19.8    2,159.1      2,515.2
(172.1)     (26.0)     (85.1)      (16.7)          -     (300.0)
Note:   Amounts may not add up to exact totals due to rounding.
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the World Bank



Annex 6
page 7 of II
Footnotes to Procurement Table 6A
a/     ICB - International Competitive Bidding
bl     NCB - National Competitive Bidding
c/     N.B.F. - Non-Bank financed procurement.
d/     Works and site acquisition/development costs financed entirely by Government and Donors.
e/     Upgrading of 40 urban schools (average US$625,000 per contract) procured through NCB in
accordance with procedures and documentation agreed with the Bank
f/     Upgrading of 300 dispersed rural schools (cost range: average US$40,000 - US$200,000 per
school.), and refurbishing of 2,828 IT classrooms (average US$10,000 per classroom).
Procurement of Minor Works based on at least 3 quotations obtained from qualified contractors in
response to a written invitation.
g/     Office equipment for Program Coordination Team (PCT) and Special Education equipment
procured through International shopping (IS) procedures (less than US$400,000 per package).
h/     Goods (school/educational equipment and furniture) financed entirely by Government.
i/     Books and library materials procured through NCB in accordance with procedures and
documentation agreed with the Bank (less than US$400,000 per package).
j/     Training materials/handouts and supplies for training in-service programs procured through
National Shopping based on at least 3 price quotations (less than US$ 100,000 per package).
k/     Government-financed procurement of teaching materials.
1/     Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) in accordance with Bank Consultant Guidelines.
in/    Government financed construction management and architectural-engineering services.
n/     Evaluation of educational outcomes. Specialists chosen on basis of QCBS procedures in
accordance with Bank Consultant Guidelines. Of this group contracts (aggregate US$1.3 million)
may be awarded to individual specialists on the basis of consultant qualifications for the
assignment
o/     Local training expenditure (local travel, perdiem/subsistence, and trainer fees) based on
Government rates, disbursed directly to participants and supported by Statements of Expenditure
(SOE).
p/     Study tours. Training plan reviewed by Bank. Disbursements through SOEs.
q/     Studies and research contracts with firms/institutions awarded through Quality Based Selection
procedure.
r/     Services of local professional staff of PCT financed entirely by Government.
s/     Bank-financed - demand driven subproject proposals for innovative educational activities,
selected according to criteria agreed with the Bank, funded through the Monitoring Response
Facility.
tl     Government financed salaries of new teachers.
u/     Government and Provincial Administration financed non-salary/operational current costs, including
incremental maintenance costs for buildings and equipment..



Annex 6
page 8 of 11
Table 6B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Contract Value                              Prior Review/
US Dollans      Procurement           Estimated Total Value
Expenditure Category                (Threshold)          Method           SubJect to Prior Review
a) Works
a) Upgrading cof 40 Urban Schools                   $25,100,000    NCB             First 3 NCB contracts
(<5,000,000)                   $1,900,000
b) Refarbishing of 2,826 IT lassrooms and           $62s600,000    MinorWorks      First 3 MW contracts
upgrading and rehabilitation of 200 rural schools
and 100 village central schools.
(c300,000)                   $500,000
c) New Construction                                $954,300,000    NBF             not appricable
(n. a)
d) Rehabilitation and Upgrading                    $178,000,000    NBF             not applicable
(n.a)
e) Site Acquisition                                $106,400,000    NBF             not applicable
(n.a.)
2.   Goods
a) School and PCT Office Equipment                    $900,000   is                none
($400,000)
$600,000    NS               none
(b100,000)
b) School Eqluipment and Furniture                 $151,100,000    NBF             not applicable
(n.c.)
c) Information Technology Equipment                $154,800,000   ICB              All ICB contracts
(ds r400,000)                $154,800,000
d) Textbooks and Library Books                      $31,400,000   [C               All [CB contracts
(>400,000)                   $31,400,000
$5,800,000    NCB             First 3 NCB contracts
(a400,000)                   $1,000,000
e) Teaching/Training Materials/Supplies             $18,100,000   ICB              All ICB contracts
(>400,000)                   $18,100,000
$500,000    NS               none
(<100,000)
$37,200,000    NSF             not applicable
(n.a.)
3.   Consultant Sergices a$d Traininct
a) Architectural & Engineering                       $1,200,000    QCBS            All contracts US$100,000 and above
$600,000
Architectural & Engineering                      $40,200,000    NBF              not applicable
(nS$t)
b) Specialized Services                              $3,600,000 )  CBS             All contracts US$100,000 and above
(>100,000)                   $3,500,000
$1,300,000   Individuals A)l contracts US$50,000 and above
(>50,000)                   $1,000,000
$1,800,000    NSF             not applicable
(ncs.)
c) Staff Training Costs                             $36,800,000    SOEs            none
(n.a.)
d) Studies and Research                              $3,500,000    OBS             All contracts US$100,000 and above
(>100,000)                   $2,000,000
4.   Educational Funds
b) Monitoring Response Facility                     $10,000,000    selection in    none
accordance with
agreed criteria
(>100,000)                   $5,000,000
S.   Incremental Recurrent coats
a) Teacher Salaries                                $650, 000,000    NSF            not applicable
(n.e.)
b) Operational/Maintenance Costs                    $40,000,000    NSF             not applicable
(n.ea.)
TOTAL COSTS       $2,515,200,000
Total Amount of Contracts Subject to Prior Review:                    $219,800,000
Percentage of Total Expenditures Financed by Bank Loan:                      62%



Annex 6
page 9 of II
Part II : Disbursement
1.      The proceeds of the APL would be disbursed in accordance with procedures described in the
Bank's 'Disbursement Handbook". The Disbursement Categories and Percentage of Expenditures to be
Financed is shown in Table 6C below.
Table 6C Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(Amounts in US$ million)
Amount in            Financing
Expenditure Category               US Dollars            Percentage
1  Civil Works: Rehabilitation of Rural/Urban Schools   67,200,000    84%
2   Equipment, Books and Teaching Materials:    166,700,000    100 % of foreign expenditure;
100 % of local expenditure (ex-factory);
84% of expenditure for locally procured items
3   Consultant Services                           7,600,000    84%
4   Training, Fellowships and Study tours        28,200,000    84%
5   Goods, works and services for subprojects     8,400,000   84%
under the Monitoring Response Facility
6   Unallocated                                  21,900,000
Total              300,000,000
2.      The proposed Loan would be disbursed over a period of three years. The disbursement forecast
is much shorter than the standard disbursement profile for Education Projects in Turkey, and is based on
a detailed work program which Bank staff consider realistic. Table 6D below shows the schedule of
disbursements for the First Phase of the BEP (the disbursement periods correspond to the Bank Fiscal
Year - July I to June 30). The Loan Closing Date will be June 30, 2001.
Table 6D: Schedule of Disbursements
(Amounts in US$ million)
Financing Available           Costs to
The                           be
Provincial    World   National             Financed       The Government
Administration    Bank    Donors              Project                Cumulative
Amount       Amount  Amount   Total    Costs    Cash Flow   Cash Flow
Semester 1              0.5     74.2       60.5    135.2      774.3       -639.1      -639.1
Semester 2              0.5     74.2       60.5    135.2      774.3       -639.1    -1,278.1
Semester3              10.4     71.9       15.4     97.7      281.0       -183.2    -1,461.3
Semester4              10.4      71.9      15.4     97.7      281.0       -183.2    -1,644.6
Semester 5              9.9       3.9         -     13.8      202.4       -188.6    -1,833.1
Semester 6              9.9       3.9         -     13.8      202.4       -188.6    -2,021.7
Total            41.7    300.0      151.8    493.5    2,515.2    -2,021.7    -2,021.7



Annex 6
page 10 of II
3.    Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Disbursements would be made against Statements
of Expenditures for: (a) works costing less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, except for the first
three contracts for works and teaching materials awarded through NCB and the first three Minor Works
contracts; (b) goods costing less than US$400,000 equivalent each contract; (c) subprojects under the
MRF costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (d) services for contracts for (i) individuals costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (e) staff
training, fellowships and study tours costing less than $15,000 each. Detailed documents evidencing
these expenditures would be reviewed and retained by the PCT and made available for the required audit
as well as to the Bank supervision missions. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the
above limits would be made against normal documentation. Disbursement and procurement documents
using SOE procedures would be retained by the PCT for a period of at least two years after disbursement
and made available to Bank staff and external auditors.
4.    Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish,
maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US
dollars at a commercial bank or a bank acceptable to the Bank. The selection process and criteria ifor
selection of the commercial bank would follow the Bank standard selection procedures. The Special
Account would be used under the direction of the Manager of the Program Coordination Team, following
procedures established by the Bank. The Special Account will have an Authorized Allocation of US$8.0
million representing the expected advance payments (20 percent) on contracts during the peak quarter of
expenditures if made exclusively through the Special Account. At the start of the project, the Special
Account deposit will be limited to half (US$4.0 million) of the Authorized Allocation, and the remaining
portion of the Authorized Allocation will be disbursed upon Government request when the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding Special
Commitments entered into by the Bank shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$8.0 million.
Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every three months, and will include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. The minimum application size for
payments directly from the Loan Account for issuance of Special Commitments is 25% of the Special
Account authorized allocations.
Retroactive Financing.. Some of the actions under the Program were initiated prior to appraisal (May 6,
1998) and are thus not eligible for financing under the APL. But many of the actions under the Programn
are scheduled to be initiated between appraisal and effectiveness, which is projected to occur in mid-July,
1998. In order to accommodate these initial expenditures for activities financed by the APL, retroactive
financing of up to US$30 million is provided in the APL for eligible expenditures incurred between
appraisal (May 6, 1998) and signature of the APL. Expenditures for retroactive financing could include
all Program components financed by the first APL and procured under agreed procedures, including
upgrading of rural schools, training of basic education personnel, provision of educational materials and
equipment, and equipment, materials and technical assistance to strengthen central and provincial
implementation capacity.
5.    Accounts and Audits. The Loan Account and the Special Account will be audited in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines: Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank,
March 1982. The Government will provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each Governmenit
Fiscal Year, with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a.
separate opinion by the independent Auditor on disbursements against certified SOEs. The separate
opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal control involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications.



Annex 6
page 11 of 11
6.    Agreements at Negotiations. The Government and the Bank agreed during negotiations that
the independent auditors would mean the Treasury Controllers. The Treasury Controllers will audit
the SpecialAccount, the project accounts and Statements of Expenditures.



Annex 7
page I of I
ANNEX 7
Basic Education Program
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$359.50              $293.60
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         6                    6
First Bank mission (identification)           12 / 10 /19 97       12 /10 /19 97
Pre-Appraisal mission                           03/23/98             03/23/98
Appraisal mission departure                    04/06/19 98          04/06/19 98
Negotiations                                   05 /18/19 98         05 /18/19 98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 07 / 15 /19 98       07 / 15 /19 98
Prepared by: Ministry of National Education
Preparation assistance: National Education Development Project (Loan 3192-TU)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Michael Mertaugh                    Principal Education Economist
Leonardo Concepcion                  Senior Implementation Specialist
Dena Ringold                          Social Policy Analyst
Ayse Kudat                     Sector Leader, Social Development
Robert Schware                 Senior Information Technology Specialist
Ferda Sahmali                      Human Resources Specialist
Ibrahim Sirer                        Procurement Specialist
Dilek Barlas                               Counsel
Hannah Koilpillai                       Disbursement Officer
Angelita Yacat-Viray                        Team Assistant



Annex 8
page I of I
ANNEX 8
Basic Education Program
Documents in the Project File*
Government:
Ministry of National Education, IT Policy Paper, 1998.
Ministry of National Education, Strategy Paper on the Integration of IT into Curriculum, 1998.
Ministry of National Education 3-year Model Plan for Schools in Using IT, 1998.
Ministry of National Education, Basic Education Program, February 12, 1998.
Ministry of National Education, Eight-Year Compulsory Basic Education, December 29, 1997.
Ministry of National Education, Basic Education Program Progress Reports, October and
December, 1997 February 1998.
Ministry of National Education, Handbook for Basic Education School Buildings, November
1997.
Ministry of National Education, Mid-Term Review and Evaluation Consultants' Report of
Computer Experimental Schools Project, November, 1996.
Republic of Turkey, Law No. 4306, August, 1997. (8 year Compulsory Basic Education Law).
Republic of Turkey, Law No. 4359, March, 1998.
World Bank:
Turkey: Informatics and Economic Modernization, World Bank Country Study, 1993.
Karasar, N., "Factors Influencing School Attendance in Basic Education in Turkey with Special
Emphasis on Female Participation," World Bank, November 1991.
Potashnik, M., Adkins, D., " Cost Analysis of Information Technology Projects in Education:
Experiences from Developing Countries" Education and Technology Series, Human
Development Department Education Group, Volume 1, No. 3, 1996.
Priorities and Strategies for Education: A World Bank Review, 1995.
Schware, R., Jaramillo, A. "Technology in Education, the Turkish Experiment," Information
* Technology for Development, Volume 8, No. 1, 1998.
Means, B., Olsen, K. "Technology's Role in Education Reform," U.S. Department of Education,
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Washington, D.C., September 1995.
Other
Fidan, N., and Baykul, Y., "Meeting Basic Learning Needs in Primary Education Schools,
UNICEF, 1991.
Kagitcibasi, C., "The Early Enrichment Project in Turkey." UNESCO-UNICEF-WFP
Cooperative Program, No. 193. Paris, 1991.
Human Development Reports for Turkey, 1996 and 1997. UNDP.



Annex 9
page I of 2
ANNEX 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Turkey
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
original Amount in uS$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 202
Active Loans
TR-PE-9072    IBRD42350    1998   REP. OF TURKEY                      PRIV. OF IRRIGATION              20.00        0.00             0.00         20.00        1.20       0.00
TR-PE-45073   IBRD40890    1997   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                OIL PIPELINE ENG.                 5.00        0.00             0.00          4.00        2.50       0.00
TR-PE-9095    IBRD42010    1997   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                  PRIM HEALTH CARE SER             14.50        0.00            0.00          14.50        2.10       0.00
TR-PE-35759   IBRD39420    1996   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.               62.00        0.00            0.00          59.73       20.63      19.23
TR-PE-38091   IBRD4048A    1996   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY             150.00        0.00             0.00        140.30       12.37       0.00
TR-PE-38091   IBRD40490    1996   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY             100.00        0.00            0.00          57.39       12.37       0.00
TR-PE-9076    IBED3802A    1995   GOVERNMENT                          HEALTH II                       136.17        0.00            0.00         119.44       67.51       0.00
TR-PE-9093    IBRD38936    1995   ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY AND            ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY            100.00        0.00             0.00         88.18       15.19       0.00
TR-PE-9102    IBRD3728A    1994   GOT                                 PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM             82.81        0.00           27.25          51.84       76.58       4.10
TR-PE-9023    IBRD3567A    1993   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                  E. ANATOLIA WATERSHE             62.48        0.00            0.00          53.60       45.65       0.00
TR-PE-9064    IBRD3541A    1993   GOVERNMENT                          EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ             48.82        0.00            0.00         45.26        28.65       0.00
TR-PE-9064    IBRD3541S   1993   GOVERNMENT                           EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ             18.18        0.00            0.00            .30       28.65       0.00
TR-PE-9065    IBRD3565A    1993   MUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI                 BURSA WATER & SANITA             85.61        0.00           20.00         51.51        21.85       0.00
TR-PE-9065    IBRD3565S    1993   KUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI                 BURSA WATER & SANITA             31.39        0.00            0.00            .07       21.85       0.00
TR-PE-9065    IBRD3566A    1993   MUN. OF BURSA/BUSKI                 BURSA WATER & SANITA               7.84       0.00            0.00           7.43       21.85       0.00
TR-PE-9099    IBRD3511A    1993   GOVT. OF TURKEY                     EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU             58.90        0.00            0.00         54.42        56.41      27.61
TR-PE-9044    IBRD3472A    1992   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                  AGRIC. RESEARCH                  34.70        0.00            0.00         26.46        30.10       -.90
TR-PE-9044    IBRD3472S   1992   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                   AGRIC. RESEARCH                  14.30        0.00            0.00            .16       30.10       -.90
TR-PE-9097    IBRD3477A    1992   GOT                                 TA FOR TREASURY DATA              2.12        0.00            0.00           1.48        1.49       0.00
TR-PE-9058    IBRD3296A    1991   GOV. OF TURKEY                      TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME             42.30        0.00            0.00         20.51        20.49       0.00
TR-PE-9071    IBRD3345A   1991   TEAS/TEDAS                           TEK RESTRUCT.                    69.88        0.00            0.00         44.85        82.02       0.00
TR-PE-9071    IBRD33451    1991   TEAS/TEDAS                          TEK RESTRUCT.                    40.00        0.00            0.00          37.18       82.02       0.00
TR-PE-8974    IBRD3177S    1990   REPUBLIC OF TURKEY                  AG.EXTN. II                      40.50        0.00            0.00           1.40       13.39        .91
TR-PE-9029    IBRD3192A    1990   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                NATIONAL EDUCATION D             57.28        0.00            0.00         51.89        52.16       0.00
TR-PE-9029    IBRD3192S    1990   GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY                NATIONAL EDUCATION D             17 58        ".00            0.00            .22       52.16       0.00



Annex 9
page 2 of 2
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
TR-PE-9061    IBRD3151A   1990   ANKARA WS&S GEN. DIRECTOR          ANKARA SEWERAGE                 25.13        0.00           0.00         11.06       76.26       5.53
TR-PE-9030    IBRD3057A   1989   GOVERNMENT                         HEALTH I                        26.77        0.00           0.00         12,57       13.32       0.00
TR-PE-8988    IBRD2922S   1988   GOVT. OF TURKEY                    IND. TRAIN. II                  71.25        0.00            0.00         3.54        3.57       0.00
Total                                                                                            1,425.51        0.00          47.25        979.29      892.44      5S.58
Active Loans        Clesed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                376.95           9,887.04          10,263.99
of which has been repaid:                 9.40           6,856.52            6,865.92
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             1,369.15            3,042.48           4,411.63
Amount sold                     :                0.00               3.55                3.55
Of which repaid                              0.00                3.55               3.55
Total Undisbursed               :              979.29              10.26              989.55
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590) . Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance
(ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



ANNEX  10
Turkey at a glance
Europe & Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central middle-
Turkey      Asia zegovina      Doevelopment diamond*
Populaton mid-1996 (millions)                       62,7       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                          2,890     2,180    1,750                   Lite expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                             184.6     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        1.7       0.3     1.4      G                                  G
Labor force (%)                                      2.1        0.5      1.8     GNP                               pGris
per     I    i       /      I    primar
Mlos recent estimate (latest year availabl since 1989)                           capita                         enrollmen
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of tofal population)              69        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              48        26       41                 Access to sate water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water(% of population)                 92
Illiteracy (56 of population age 15+)                 18         ..      ..                  Turkey
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  97       97      104                                             i
Male                                               101        97      105                  Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              94        97      101
KFY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
GDP (billions US$)                          46.7    67.2      189.3   182.1      Economic raftos-
Gross domestic investmenttGOP               17.9    16.5       25.5    23.8
Exports of goods & non factor serviceslGDP   4.2    15.9       19.9    21.5                Openness of economy
Gross domestic savingsSGOP                  11.4    13.4       21.0     17.8
Gross national savings/GDP                  17.0    17.1       22.0    18.8
Current account balance/GDP                 -3.5    -1.5       -1.4    -2.6
Interest payments/GDP                        0.3      2.0       2.5      2.3     Savings   i-                        mrvv
Total debt/GDP                              10.8    38.7       43.6    43.8
Total debt servicelexporto                  11.3    35.0       31.3    25.7
Present value of debt'GDP                     ..       .       40.8
Present value of debt/exportl                  .       .      164.8        .Indeb edness
1975-85  1986-96    1996      1996  1997-00
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.1     3.9       7.2       6.8      4.5            -Turkey
GNP per capita                      0.4      2.1     5.9        5.1      2.5                 Lower-middle-income group
Exports ot goods and services      17.5     8.4       8.0      21.7    10.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1996    1996
(Ail oftGre                                 35.8    20.4       16.4    17.4     Growth rates of output and investment (%/)
Industry                                    19.9    27.1       30.5    27.9 
Manufacturing                             12.5    17.7       21.0    18.0       20
Services                                    44.3    52.5       53.2    54.7       0
-20    91 Dl  2   93    v     95   9S
Private consumption                         79.1    79.8       68.2    70.6     *40
General govemment consumption                9.5     6.8       10.8    11.6                     GOI   -        GDP
Imports of goods & non factor services      10.7    19.0       24.4    27.5
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.9     1.3        1.0      4.8     Growth rates of exports and Imports(%)
Industry                                     3.2     4.7        7.4     6.4      40
Manufacturing                              3.7      5.3      11.7      6.4      20
Services                                     4.2      3.9       6.2      7.2
0
Private consumption                          2.3     4.1        6.4     9.3      *20D95
General government consumption               3.7     3.9        5.3      5.4
Gross domestic investment                    0.2     4.4       31.8     0.2      40
Imports ot goods and services                2.6     9.5       29.6    19.0                     Exports   0-irnpons
Gross national product                       2.7     4.0        8.2     6.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are tor years other than those specified.
I he diamonds show tour Key indicators in the country (in boid) comparedt with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond wAil
De incomplete.
Turkey



Amrex 10
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1986      1995      1996
Domfc1 prw                                                                          Inflation (%N)
(% change)                                                                         1S0
Consumer prices                               19.2     45.7      93.6     78.8         .
Implicit GDP deflator                        20.5      52.1      87.0     78.3    100
Govemment finance                                                                   so
(% of GOP)                                                                           0            I      I
Current revenue                                 ..       ..      20.8      21.8             91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       0.1      -2.7               -     GDP def. - PI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -4.8     -9.2
TRADE
1975    1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and import tevels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob:                              .        ..   21,637   23,123
Textiles                                      ..       ..    8,404    8,570        so ooo
Processed agricultural products               ..       ..    3,407    3.687        40,000 5
Machinery and equipment                       ..       ..    2,346    2.966        3
Total imports (cif)                                      ..   35,709   42.734
Food (processed agriculturai products)        ..       ..    2,282    2,531        20,000
Fuel and energy                                ..      ..    4.812    6.089        10.00
Capital goods                                  ..      ..   11.437   14,969                  d        _
Exportprceindex(1987=100)                       ..       ..       121      115             so  91  92  93  94  99  96
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..       116      116                   g Exports    m imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..       ..       104       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1996      1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Currentaccountbalanor toGDPratio
Exports of goods and services               2,018   11,119    36.581   42.496       Cretacutblnet  O  ai %
Imports of goods and services               4,979   12,661     40,601   49,070
Resource balance                            -2.961   -1,542     -4.020   46.574
Net income                                   -123   -1,455      -2.815   *2.639     z
Net current transfers                        1,437    1,984     4,496    4,447
Current account balance,                                                            o         1
before official capital transfen          -1.647   -1,013     -2,339   4.766
Financing items (net)                         970    1,137      6,997    9,311
Changes in net reserves                       677      -124    -4,658    4,545
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)         1,444    2,322     13.754   17.614
Conversion rate (locaVLUS$)                   14.4    522.0    45,845   81,137
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        5,059   25,998    73.779   79,789       (mill. US$)
IBRD                                        288    3.432      4,939    4,260
IDA                                         144      178        130      124                         A  Bc
4260 B669
Total debt service                            377    4,600      11,448   10,940               G           124   D
IBRD                                         31      400      1,278    1,147              20092             5077
IDA                                           2        5          7        7
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                8113
Official grants                              18      115        439      400
Official creditors                          165      424      -1,180     -840
Privatecreditors                            -11       -14        46    1,080
Foreign direct investment                   114       99        772      612
Portfolio equity                              0        0      1,108     -983                          F
41454
Word Bank program
Commitments                                 158      838        162      255      A- IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               108      636        422      489      B-IDA     D-Othermultilateral   F-Private
Prncipal repayments                          12      159        882      815      C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                    97      477       -460     -326
Interest payments                            21      246        396      339
Net transfers                                76      231       -856     -665
Development Economics                                                                                                  5s20198
'Non-financial Public Sector



MAP SECTION



IERD 29532
BULGARIA                                                        S'                                                                  403                                                                  40                                                                    45
B    / a       c    k$                    e    aGEORGIA
%.NEdirne  (Kirkl-reli             BSinop
s^\_  #~~ t--S  I                                                     f: /     n                                                                                                                              o-48t ~-   -_Q.tn  41
GREECE         io-J4Bk                                                                                                                                                                                                              Av                                      r"'      >         Z
(A d....sri                                                                                                                                                                             /     ARMENIA
A-Y. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~5
;                                                                                                                             ' ,SHBB -  *IeN - f A S'S  * 
-40o <~~Ayi>(nk                      a B s(D (1ienro                                          Ko                             Ngd                                                                             Diyorbm(9okin(   Ba br ; >     Siin      k
-   oieii                            BudsrI              N 1,, -  -' 3           ii       k    b                                            Ronzomo i.                                                           -iEzno   ruum)1Ar                        
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZR
AotoIyo(3                                                    ccl            irsohio                  Kii                          Tuc<                                         /                                   ISLAMI
ksik.hi,                                                                                                                                                                                                         AIJAN
0 : srOlif004ZI 0    '    (De AMd0fkya(                                                                                      3           5 SYRIAN                                           BSCEUAINPROJECT
-w                     ARAB REP.                              BASIC EDUCATION
M;e d it e rr a neacn           Sea rJ0f/s                                                                                           POVNECPTL                                         PROVINCES WITH UPGRADING OP VILLAGE SCHOOLS
-35  T qE bp3 j i5 9 S        2ri 1                                          /K                                                                          PAiA N A T INCE CAPITAL f RS                        FINANCED BY THE RANK UNDER THE FIRST APL
This mapenpndQcedfiy fhe Mopf>aignUnie<d The WorldEonfi   YILC#ETERS \   J    -   E                                               RIVRIVERS                                          PROVINCE (ANKARA) WITH UPGRADING OF URBAN SLUM SCHOOL
ThebooodntaooIesohn,dsoon~oonm6is ond oootHanioMrrnoHlon ,hwn   NOTE: Tb n.tmhr onf pnonc  hbw  toth    CYPRUS           I'PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                           .,.    FINANCED BY THE BANK UNDER THE FIRST APL
ionply, so H. pont  World Bok Group.  ono (onoen Hon ro  tots, b.ookn S to sot a
jrdonhotoo tf,T.goltotsfonyt.nntsn,srnyendonosr,odv  boodp. orhorrsoslodHoos stn otof7fttbfo4   '>                                                                      ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT GROUP AREABOUNDARIES
oooptonoo of susn bouonjonies. SA oy pdo/He.                                                         K- .                          eNi ,,                                                                                                                                                    45i
mugi.~            ~         ~   o5 lsr4
SE'                            ><(~~~0  .-
AM.ly                                                                                                                                      I R A  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT19



