Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
.            Report No. 9186
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 1965-BR)
DECEMBER 7, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
oLatin America and the Caribbean Regional Office   J
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



Currency Equivalents
January 1981         USS1.00 - 65.2 cruzeiros
December 1986        US$1.00 - 14.5 New Cruzados
Measures and Equivalents
1 meter (m)                      -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 -   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)          a   3.386 square miles (sq mi)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGLURB    Programa de Aglomerados tirbanos
INH       Banco Nacional de Habitacao
CNDU      Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
EBTU      Empresa Irasileira dos Transportes Urbanoa
EMTU-SP   Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos de Sao Paulo
FDTU      Fundo de Desenvolviuento dos Transportes Urbanos
FGTS      Fundo de Garantia de Tempo de Servico
FNDU      Fundo Nacional de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Urbano
PHE       Programa de Mobilizacao Energetica
II PND    II Plano Nacional de Desenvolvimento
III PND   III Planq,Nactonal de Desenvolvimento
PROPAV    Programa de Pavimentacao de Baixo Custo em Areas de Baixa Rend&
PTAEC     Programa de Transporte Alternativo para Sconomia de Combustivel
RFFSA     Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republics
SLTU      Sistema Local de Transportes Urbanos



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office M ofitrctatelmtaa
OPWamom tvakatim
December 7. 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil -
Third Urban Transport Project
(Loan 1965-BR-
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Third Urban Transport Project (Loan 1965-BR)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.  No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has  restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Sank authoriution.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ....................        .........                .....  i
Basic Data Sheet .................    ii
Evaluation Summary .................                                 iv
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                      1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.                2
Project Origin ..                                                 2
Identification and Preparation .                .                 3
Appraisal ....................................  3
Project Objectives and Description .              .               4
III. IMPLEMENTATION.                                                    6
Start Up..                                                        6
Revisions . .                                                     6
Implementation Schedule    ..10
Reporting and Monitoring    ..10
Procurement            ......... 12
Performance of Consultants    .               .12
Maintenance                   ..12
IV. FINANCIAL PERFORMNCE. .12
Costs .12
Financial .13
Disbursements .13
V.  REEVALUATION ..............................                       13
Operational .13
Economic .14
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE .14
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.1  AGLURB Subproject - Summary of Physical Works ..........       20
1.2 AGLURB Subproject - Implementation
Performance - Physical Works .........................      21
2.1  Project Costs and Source of Funds (in US$) .............       22
2.2 Project Costs - AGLURB Subproject
Costs (US Million) ...................................      23
3 Disbursements .24
4    AGLURB Training Program - Bus
ODerational Training in Local Areas .25
5  AGLURB Subproject Reevaluation .26
Fig 1.A EBTU Organization at Appraisal .........................    27
Fig 1.B EBTU Organization at Project Completion ................    28



BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Urban
Transport Project in Brazil, for which Loan 1965-BR in the amount of US$90.0
million was approved on March 31, 1981. The loan was closed on December 31,
1986, one and a half year's behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on August 18, 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Country Department I of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on data available in LAC files;
on the Staff Appraisal Reports for Loan 1965-BR and Loan 2822-BR (Fourth Urban
Transport Project); on a Final Report (July les8) on the Project prepared by
EBTU; the Loan Agreement; the Loan Assumption Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation DeDartment (OED).
The draft PCk was sent to the Borrower for comments: however, none were
received.



- ii -
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Item                                     AyRraisal Estimate        Actual
Total Project Cost (USSmillion)                 257.0                200.7
Underrun or Overrun (2)                           -                   222
Loan Amount (USSmillion)                         90.0                 90.0
Disbursed                                      -                    90.0
Cancelled                                      -                     0.0
Date Phyiical Components Complete               12/84                10/87
Proportion Completed By Above Date               252                  902
Time Ove:rrun (2)                                 _                  1002
Financial Performance                            n/a                  n/a
Institutional Performance                        n/a                  n/a
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement (Bank Fiscal Year)
(USS millions)
1982    1983    1984    1985   1986    1987    1988
Estimated              19.0    59.6    85.7    90.0    -         -
Actual                  -        7.6    16.4    25.5   36 .5    883    90.0
Actual as 2 of Est.    02        13S     192     282    412       982     1002



- iii -
Mission Data
Ho/Year    No. of vks   No. of Per.   Man Wks   Date of Report
Identification   Var./1979                     *             *             -
Preparation       1979/1980              *                   *             -
Preapprkisal      03/80           -            _             -         04/15/80
Appraisal         06180           2             7            14        02127181
Supervision       09/81           1             2             2        10/23/81
01/82           .5           1              .5 
03/82           2            4             8         05104/82
07/82                        1              .5       07/16/82
10/82           2            3             6         12/16/82
02/83           1            1             1         04/01/83
11/83           2            1             2         01/06/84
03/84           2            2             4         05/18/84
10/84           1            1             1         10/19/84
12/84           1            1             1         01/11/85
07/85                                      2         07/25/85
04/86                                       1        06106/86
12/a6                                      1         03/05/87
11/87                                       1        12/03/87
31
*Data not available.
Other Protect Data
Item                                          Original Plan          Actual
First Mentioned in Project Files                 08/79
Government Application                           08/79
Negotiations                                     02/81
Board Approval                                   03131/81
Loan Agreement Date                              06/05/81
Effectiveness Date                               10/20/81
Closing Date                                     06/30185             07/01/88
Borrower                                         Empressa
Brazileira            EBTU
dos Transportes
Urbanos (EBTU)
Executing Agencies                               EBTU and             EBTU and
Various             Various
Cities              Cities



- iv -
BRAZIL.
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The overall objective of the Third Urban Transport Project was to
improve transport conditions in urban areas as set out in the Third National
Development Plan, while helping EBTU to improve its operating efficiency to be
able to take an increasingly formative role in the improvement of transport in
Brazilian urban areas.
Implementation Experience
The project was implemented over a period of five years, instead of
three and a half years as planned at Appraisal. Several factors contributed for
a delayed implementation schedule. First, there was a delayed start-up due to
the limited availability of detailed designs and EBTU's failure to appraise and
process projects in accordance with the exacting schedule agreed at Appraisal.
Second, the economic and political changes that occurred in Brazil during project
implementation made EBTU encounter delays both in determining allocated funding
from the Federal Government and in obtaining those funds. Third, the proposed
EBTU's reorganization, which was targeted for completion by mid 1981, did not
come into operation until October of 1984 as a result of the practical (legal
and political) difficulties involved. Despite all these constraints, the Project
was completed in about the average period for Bank-financed urban transport
projects world wide.
In view of these difficulties and in order to ensure the attainment
of its objectives, the project underwent significant revisions (see Paras. 20-
27).  The most  important revisions had to do with: (i) the reallocation of
project costs, notably from Baisada Santista and the Federal District, to include
four additional AGLURBs, an increased PROPAV target (500km to 800km, and finally
1056 km), and increased institutional development in SLTUs; (ii) three extensions
of the implementation period; (iii) some changes in AGLURB content particularly
due to the failure of the Sao Luis AGLURB component, and the elimination of a
major road in Florianopolis; and (iv) the poor record of execution for the
studies. Although it was subject to considerable changes and delay (compared
to the optimistic Project schedule), the Project was successfully implemented.
Results
The Project demonstrated that EBTU was able to manage sectoral
components (PROPAV) and carry out the appraisal and supervision aspects of the
project cycle (AGLURBs and PROPAV). Despite the impossibility of being definite
as to the impacts of the SLTU since evaluation was not undertaken on a systematic
basis, various of the EBTU sponsored training programs appear to have been
successful (eg. for bus operatives) and, .n some cities, competent transport
planning agencies have been established (eg. Belem's EMTU). With respect to Part
B (AGLURBs), the physical objective: appear to have been substantially achieved
(see Table 1.1). The sample of components subject to re-evaluation showed that
over 752 of them had exceptionally high rates of return (see Table 6). However,
there were failures. The Sao Luis sub-project was not effectively implemented
due  largely  to political  and  financial  problems.    Part  C  (PROPAV)  was
successfully implemented and targets exceeded. There was keen interest from many
cities for participation in the program and reduced unit costs, coupled with



v 
managerial efficienc;-, allowed expansion of the program. Over 1,000 km of bus
routes were paved in 146 ciLies, resulting in reduced operating costs and
increased reliability and level of confort of their bus service systems. The
PROPAV evaluation indicates that 93Z of schemes resulted in IRRs of more than
112. Within this figure, 662 of schemes resulted in IRRs between lZ and 40Z,
and 27Z of schemes resulted in IRRs of more than 40X. The PROPAV program was
innovative and has since been replicated in many urban projects in Latin America
and other parts of the world.
Sustainability
The project has produced significant benefits in that transport
conditions  were  improved  in  major  urban  areas  or  Brazil.    Also,  the
reorganization of EBTU resulted in increased effectiveness in that it was able
to implement the Project under difficult circumstances and the physical
objectives were mostly achieved.   This,  in its turn,  resulted in EBTU's
undertaking the Fourth Urban Transport Project in the more technically demanding
and complex MRs and to deal with national urban transport policy issues. When
the Third Project was prepared, it was considered that EBTU would retain its
national role in policy formulatior. for, and funding of urban transport. Since
that timoe there has been increasing moves to regionalize transport planning
(partly recognized in the Fourth Project by attempts to strengthen regional
offices) and, EBTU has undergone various changes of role nd ministerial
supervision.   Currently, EBTU has been extinguished; its functions have been
assigned to GEIPOT (a transport planning agency in the Ministry of Transport);
and, the administration and funding policy for urban transport is still being
defined.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The main lessons from the experience under the Project are fourfold.
First, the substantial completion of institutional reorganization, of final
operational manuals, final participating and onlending agreements should be
stipulated as general conditions of disbursement. Second, projects containing
substantial institutional development objectives should include clearly defined
and measurable indicators for monitoring change.   Third, financial policies
(onlending terms, grants, direct and indirect cost recovery) should have been
more carefully reasoned and reflected in project design. It is desirable that
such projects in the future include at a minimum a review of the financial health
of beneficiary municipalities. Fourth, bus transportation (generally by private
operators) is an universal form of public transport in all Brazilian cities
(irrespective of size). Perhaps in future, a more cost-effective strategy for
the Borrower and the Bank, to support objectives and investments similar to the
Third Urban Transport Project, would be to incorporate essential institutional
development sub-components (transport planning, road pricing, traffic management,
road maintainance, etc) in municipal development projects. Urban Transport
Projects would thus address the policy and investment needs related to the needs
of primarily Metropolitan Regions and the two omega-cities" of Sao Paulo and Rio
de Janeiro (multimodal integrated transport projects, and non-road based systems
such as Light Rail Transit (LRT), rapid transit (metros), etc.



BRA1.IL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.         The growth of urban population in Brazil has been rapid.
By 1980, 80 million people (682 of total population) lived in urban
areas compared to, in 1960, 31 million (442 of total). The rate of
increase in the period 1970 - 1980 was particularly high at 52 per
year. The scale and rapidity of this urbanization created heavy
demands for all urban services, including transport. Despite
extensive development and investment, the provision of urban
transport serv.ces generally failed  o keep pace with demand. In
1980 in the metropolitan regions and large conurbations, demand for
urban transport services was increasing at 9Z per year. Major
problems were seen such as as inadequate bus services (the main
travel mode) often arising from lack of infrastructure and poor
operating conditions; lack of adequate institutional structure at
both national and local levels for efficient transport planning and
operations; and lack of cost effectiveness in targeting urban
transport investment.
2.         To address urban transport issues, the Brazilian Urban
Transport Company (EBTU) was created in 1976. EBTU's role was to
coordinate and implement national urban transport policy and to
finance urban transport investments. In late 1976, EBTU contacted
the Bank to request financial and technical assistance in
addressing the country's urban transport problems. This request
ultimately resulted in the First Urban Transport Loan (loan 1563-
BR) which became effective in September 1978. This loan
concentrated on five of Brazil's metropolitan regions: Recife,
Salvadc.r, Belo Horizonte, Porto Alegre and Curitiba.
3.         In 1979, the Third National Development Plan (III PND)
for 1980-85 was developed by Government. Within the III PND, policy
goals which directly affected urban transport were firstly,
reduction of petroleum product imports to reduce Brazil's balance
of payments and secondly, the need to assist decentralization.
Within the III PND framework, the Ministry of Transport (HOT)
developed an urban transport policy. The goals were more efficient
use of energy (fuel), maximization of the use of the existing
transport system, the need to emphasize public transport and the
need to improve transport planning and integrate transport and land
use.
4.         Preparation and initial implementation of the First
Urban Transport Project brought a realization to Government leaders
of the benefits to be gained from effective urban transport
programs and helped establish EBTU as a viable entity in achieving
the objectives of III PND. The Government subsequently, through
EBTU, requested further assistance from the Bank of the same nature



- 2 -
as Loan 1563-BR, but with more emphasis on imiproving institutional
weaknesses, and with a broader geographic range. This ultimately
resulted in the Third Urban Transport Project which became
effective in October, 1981. (Note: In the meantime, a Second
Urban Transport Loan, 1839-BR, of a totally different nature, had
been approved in May 1980.) This loan was an urban transport
project only by virtue of the fact it financed a transport project
in an urban area; the loan financed the construction of a suburban
train in Porto Alegre. Unfortunately, while the project itself was
successfully implemented, necessary policy adjustments were not
made by the Government in support of the project, and minimal urban
transport "system" improvements resulted.)
5.         Although it was beyond the scope of the Third Urban
Transport Project (the Project) to deal with all urban transport
problems in Brazil, the Project was consistent with the general MOT
transport improvement, institutional and policy aims; the Project
objectives were to bring about improvements 'in urban transport
infrastructure and services and ... in operating efficiency of
EBTU" (SAR III A. 3.02). The project concentrated on urban
agglomerations inasmuch as the First Project was concentrated on
metropolitan regions (MRs).  The Project was consistent with the
aim of assisting decentralization through strengthening local
planning and implementation in the conurbations.
6.         The Third Urban Transport Project was implemented during
a period of great political change and economic difficulty in
Brazil (two devaluations occurred during the Project period). These
events influenced Project implementation particularly in the timely
availability of counterpart (federal and local) funds and, on
occasions, in reaching subproject agreements between EBTU and local
agencies.
7.         This PCR is based on data available in LAC files, on the
SARs for the Third (Loan 1965 BR) and Fourth (Loan 2822- BR) Urban
Transport Projects, on a Final Report 'July 1988) prepared by EBTU
on the Third Project, and on subsequent data provided by EBTU.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Project Origin
8.         By 1979 as part of their wider transport planning
responsibilities, EBTU had prepared initial appraisal guidelines
and eligibility criteria for all transport projects for which it
had funding responsibility. However, to enable it to take an
increasingly formative role in the improvement of transport in
Brazilian urban areas, there was a need for EBTU to develop further
in terms of improving its operating efficiency, technical
capabilities and methodologies. Thus, in 1979, discussions were
held between the Bank and EBTU to identifv a project which could
assist the development of EBTU in parallel with improving transport



-3-
conditions in urban areas as per the Third National Development
Plan then under preparation.
Identification and Preparation
9.         The Project was identified by the Bar'- in discussion
with EBTU during various supervision missions in 1979 for the First
Urban Transport Project (Loan 1563-BR) and the Medium Sized Cities
Project (Loan 1720-BR).
10.        At identification, four subprojects were proposed:
(i) investments in infrastructure in selected cities; (ii) an
institutional program to strengthen EBTU; (iii) technical
assistance to EBTU and to cities; and (iv) paving of bus routes in
low income areas. EBTU was responsible for overall project
preparation and coordination and an EBTU team was established
within its Technical Directorate for these purposes. Individual
cities were responsible for identification, planning and design of
infrastructure and received guidance from EBTU regarding acceptable
policies and measures. The preparation work was based on EBTU's
existing project guidelines. As part of the institutional program
and as a result of Appraisal by the Bank, EBTU modified and added
to its Project guidelines to form an "Operational Manual" (OM).
The OM covered all stages of the project cycle and set out policy,
methodologies, cdministrative procedures and standards to be
followed by pLrticipating agencies (i.e. those seeking funding from
EBTU). The OM was finalized in a form acceptable to the Bank in
early 1981. To overcome organizational problems which had become
apparent during the First Project and to address the key issue of
transport planning and coordination, the institutional program
included an EBTU reorganization plan. The plan was drafted by EBTU
using national consultants and, together with the proposals for
technical assistance, was finalized at Appraisal. A program
approach was adopted to the paving of bus routes in low income
areas and thus neither physical schemes nor their locations were
defined at Appraisal. The concept of the program was based on
existing EBTU experience under the First Project (which included a
significant paving program in MR's) and on standards and techniques
developed by Sao Paulo authorities. EBTU prepared an initial draft
paving manual (as part of the OH) defining criteria, evaluation
procedures, and standards at Appraisal and this was finalized
during project execution. The paving manual was completed in a form
acceptable to the Bank in December 1981 (about 18 months after
Appraisal).
Appraisal
11.        It was considered that EBTU had developed beyond the
stage at which continiuous Bank involvement was required. Thus, the
Project was structured as a hybrid - between a sector and
conventional - loan. Although content remained essentially as
defined in the Project Brief, at Appraisal the Project was dividee
into three parts rather than four sub projects:
11.1 Part A: Institutional Program for development of



national (EBTU) and local agencies;
11.2 Part B: Investment programs in infrastructure and
institutional development of the transport system in
conurbations (termed the AGLURB Program); and
11.3 Part C: Program of paving of bus routes in low income
areas (termed the PROPAV Program).
12.        The Bank appraisal was made on the basis of:
12.1  Part A: an outline institutional plan
prepared by ERTU which set out
reorganization proposals for EBTU, the
scope of the revised EBTU OM for the
Project Cycle and an outline technical
assistance and training program;
12.2  Part B: appraisal reports prepared by EBTU
for physical schemes and institutional
arrangements in three AGLURBs. In general,
detailed designs were not available for
physical works. The three AGLURBs were
visited at Appraisal by the Bank. It was
proposed that ten AGLURBs would participate
and the seven subsequent AGLURBs programs
would be appraised by EBTU and reviewed by
the Bank; and
12.3  Part C: the initial version of the PROPAV
manual. Since a program approach was
anticipated, no identification of schemes
or participating cities was carried out.
Proiect Objectives and Description
13.        The objectives of the Project were (i) to improve urban
transport infrastructure and services and (ii) to improve the
operating efficiency of EBTU.
14.        The Project placed great emphasis on Part A -
institutional development. The Project was designed to establish a
more efficient and technically competent EBTU and to improve the
management of local transport systems in cities (SLTU's). The
Project strategy to achieve its objectives for EBTU was
(i) inclusion of AGLURBs rather than larger cities since transport
issues were likely to be less complex and thus capable of
resolution by EBTU at its then level of development; (ii) Bank
appraisal of only three out of the ten participating AGLURBs - the
remaining seven were to be appraised by EBTU and only submitted to
the Bank for final review; (iii) a program approach for PROPAV
where EBTU would manage the entire program; and (iv) management by
EBTU of training and technical assistance programs for SLTU's. The
actions to realize the Part A strategy comprised (i) reorganization
of EBTU; (ii) refinement/development of project cycle procedures



-5
and preparation of a revised EBTU OM and application of the OM to
the seven AGLURBs; (iii) training for EBTU and SLTU staff;
(iv) technical assistance in both institutional and technical
fields at EBTU level and at SLTU level; and (v) 6 studies dealing
with:
14.1 transport planning under energy constraints;
14.2 infrastructure maintenance;
14.3 vehicle operating cost methodology;
14.4 bus route planning, regulation and control;
14.5 bus operating procedures; and
14.6 financial implications of on-lending Bank
loans to cities.
15.        Part B comprised institutional and infrastructure
programs in AGLURBs (Table 1.1). The infrastructure programs were
subject to evaLuation procedures established in the EBTU OM and
emphasized low cost investments which favored public transport.
Typical works involved traffic management schemes (including
signing, traffic signals and circulation schemes), road
repair/rehabilitation, road drainage, bus facilities (including bus
lanes/segregated ways, passenger facilities, bus lay-bys etc.),
footpaths, footbridges, bicycle paths, essential road construction
to correct structural weaknesses in the road network, and a limited
number of special schemes such as ferry terminals or bridges.
Further details for each AGLURB are given in Annex 1. The Project
established a management unit in each AGLURB to plan and supervise
implementation of each subproject. At Appraisal the ten
participating AGLURBs were the Distrito Federal (Brasilia), Baixada
Santista, Sao Luis do Maranhao (the former three AGLURBs were those
subject to appraisal by the Bank), Maceio, Goiania, Cuiaba,
Florianopolis, Natal and, at Appraisal, two undefined AGLURBs.
These final two AGLURBs, Vale do Aco and Joao Pessoa, were selected
in 1982 and 1983 respectively.
16.        Part C (PROPAV) was aimed at improving access to, and
operating costs of, bus services by capitalizing on the successful
experience of the First Project where some 15? of Project costs had
been expended on bus route paving. Despite some problems of over-
elaborate design in the First Project, EBTU concluded that high
levels of benefits could be expected from an extensive bus route
paving program. The PROPAV Manual was developed to include criteria
for route selection, justification (in terms of economic return
related to number of buses), design procedures, design standards,
specifications, standard contract documents and procedures for
cities to apply to EBTU for participation in the program. Emphasis
was placed on the need to capitalize or. locally available materials
and to use local construction techniques. Individual participating
cities and schemes were not identified at Appraisal but a notional
program target of 500 km of paving was proposed for the Project.
PROPAV projects were not confined to any particular city type or
size in Brazil.
17.        The financing plan for the Project included a Bank
contribution of 35? (USS 90 million), EBTU 34? (USS 87.5 million),



-6-
and Local Agencies 312 (US$ 79.5 million). At Appraisal, it was
proposed that the Bank contribution might be on-lent to Local
Agencies (SAR para 3.37) but the decision and precise conditions
were to be subject to study and evaluation under the Project. The
study (para 13.6)) was targeted for completion by December 1982.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Start Up
18.        The Project was appraised in July 1980 and Effectiveness
was confirmed on October 20, 1981. All three Project components,
(institutional, AGLURB and PROPAV) started very slowly. By mid
1982, implementation was judged to be 12 months behind the schedule
defined at Appraisal. The first disbursements were made in the
third quarter of 1982 amounting to about 2.3Z of total against an
Appraisal target of cumulative disbursement of 322 by that time.
The start up delays can be attributed partly to legal questions
concerning the terms of on-lending to participating AGLURBs but,
more importantly, are attributed to EBTU's failure to appraise and
to process projects in accordance with the exacting schedule agreed
at Appraisal. It was not until early 1984 that the Bank was able to
offer "no objections" to EBTU appraisals of the target 10 AGLURBs.
The start up schedule was unrealistic.
19.        At Appraisal, it had been recognized that for EBTU to
undertake Project implementation in an efficient manner, internal
reorganization was necessary and the new agency structure was
proposed as a fundamental part of the Project. The schedule for
reorganization was targeted for completion by mid 1981. The
reorganization was greatly delayed, however; the new, basic
structure did not come into operation until October 1984. Partly as
a result of this, EBTU was unable to meet the technical (appraisal,
review of designs etc.) and administrative (resolution of legal
issues, processing of agreements with cities etc.) requirements of
the Project at the pace needed to meet the original demanding start
up schedule.
Revisions
20.        The Project underwent significant revisions. In November
1984, the Loan Agreement was amended: (i) Part A to include
technical assistance to improve transport planning in MR's. state
capitals and other cities; (ii) Part B to increase the target
number of AGLURBs from 10 to 14, (the AGLURBs of Aracaju, Teresina,
Manaus and Vitoria were added); (iii) Part C to increase the target
PROPAV program from 500 to 850 km; and (iv) to extend the loan
closing date from June 1985 to December 1986. The increases in
scope of the institutional, AGLURB and PROPAV sub projects were all
made within the original total Project cost as estimated at
Appraisal and were possible due to overestimation of original costs
and, in the AGLURBs, the elimination of some components.



-7-
21.        The overestimation of AGLURB costs was attributed to the
semi-program approach adopted towards Part B; only 3 of the
proposed 10 AGLURBs were prepared at Appraisal and even for those
three, final designs were not generally available. Final designs
and evaluations simplified some of the components, particularly in
Baixada Santista and Distrito Federal. The major cost reductions in
Part B in Baixada Santista and Distrito Federal amounted to USS
26.7 million. In Baixada Santista the reduction in scope included
(i) US$ 4.6 million eliminated from the management/
design/supervision component as it was found that a reduction in
scale was possible and considerable work could be undertaken by
existing local agency staff (ii) Corredores Santos Dumont, Sistema
Viario Santos and Sistema Sao Vocente were reduced by US$ 1.3
million, US$ 3.4 million and US$3 million respectively by
simplification of works and the elimination of a complex traffic
signal system. In Distrito Federal, the scope of work was reduced:
(i) in Corredor Ceilandia (by USS 3.3 million); (ii) in Corredor
Gama (by US$ 6.2 million); (iii) in Corredor Taguatinga (by US$1.8
million); in some instances work was carried out with DF own
resources in periods when EBTU funds were not available.
22.        The overestimation of Part C, PROPAV, costs was
attributed to the program nature of PROPAV. At Appraisal, it was
not possible to recognize adequately the impact of local
construction techniques or the extent to which various cities would
use direct labor or supply their own materials for some works.
23.        A further major amendment took place in November 1985
when the Loan Agreement was amended to increase the Bank
participation for civil works from 30? to 50Z. Total Project costs
vere also reduced thus raising effective Bank participation from
352 to 45Z overall. The amendment was aimed at resolving problems
of availability of federal funds brought about by the Federal
Government's "economic package". Additionally, the final date for
convenios (agreements between EBTU rnd participating agencies)
which would qualify for disbursemer '-is extended from June 1985 to
March 1986. The reduction in Projec -ost was from US$ 257 million
to US$ 200 million (about 22Z). Project content was generally
maintained although the cost reduction necessitated the elimination
of some works (about USS 19 million or 332 of the reduction) in
three AGLURBs which were no longer achievable without unreasonable
further extensions to the already extended Project period. EBTU
was charged with the responsibility of ensuring that the remaining
works comprised or formed part of a coherent trar nort strategy.
The remainder of the cost reduction was attributc. to  'ontinued
over-provision of construction costs; this was considexed to be a
result of construction cost inflation being less than
cruzeiro/cruzado inflation in relation to the US$ and thus more
works were obtained per US$ than was originally estimated. Tae
works eliminated included (i) PC3 in Florianopolis (ii) some works
in Distrito Federal and (iii) the majority of Corredor Centro Anil
in Sao Luis.
24.        A third amendment took place in December 1986 when the
Bank agreed that works contracts signed before December 1986 would



qualify for disbursement up to June 1987. EBTU was also informed
that the 850 km target for PROPAV could not be raised although
adequate funds for increased work were available. EBTU completed
1056 km of PROPAV, however, and the Bank subsequently agreed to
disburse against the increased kms.
25.        Changes in physical components in two ABLURB's - Sao
Luis and Joao Pessoa - were particularly significant. Sao Luis
presented special problems throughout the Project. It was
recognized at Appraisal that its financial position was
"precarious" (SAR para 4.07) but that counterpart funds would be
available from the State. However, due to political differences,
between the State and City, funding was not available to Sao Luis
in a timely manner and this together with low technical capacity,
poor standard of work (some of which was executed buc not judged
adequate for disbursement by EBTU) and political changes, cumulated
in an exceptionally poor implementation performance. Finally, in
the 7 years of implementation, only US$ 2.8 million of works and
institutional support were disbursed to Sao Luis against a
scheduled original sum of US$ 12.7 million (22Z). In the case of
Joao Pessoa, in the last year of the Project, investment was
increased from US$ 11.5 million to US$ 19.4 million. The major
reason appears to be engineering/foundation difficulties on the
major road Corredor Liberdade, and thus increased costs.
26.        The main changes from the SAR proposals for Part A
include:
26.1  a revised structure for EBTU;
26.2  an extended program of technical assistance and training
in the SLTU's; and
26.3  significant amendments to the scope and content of the
studies.
27.        Although a small element of the Project (US$0.573 m or
0.29Z of Project cost), the studies, as amended, do not appear to
have been fully successful:
27.1 the proposed bus route planning, regulation and control
study, the bus operations study, and vehicle operating
costs study were cancelled and substituted by the
SITURB (urban transport information system) project.
Originally, SITURB was intended to provide a computer
based information system to assist national and local
planning and management of public transport systems.
Problems of staff and computer hardware availability
were experienced in implementation in AGLURBs and other
cities. The system was eventually introduced in five
cities and partially in twelve cities. It has been
argued by EBTU that it has been valuable in assisting
bus system management to the extent that positive
impacts, such as fuel reductions, and accident
reductions, have resulted from the availability of



-9-
better management information. No detailed evaluation
was available, however;
27.2 the study to deterL,ine the financial implications to
AGLURBs and other agencies for on-lending was scheduled
for completion in 1982 but was started only in May 1984
and completed March 1985; The delay of some 2.5 years
meant that the results did not contribute to the
Project as was anticipated at Appraisal;
27.3  the infrastructure maintenance study was not completed
in a form or timescale to contribute to the project
(started April 1986 and completed September 1987). The
Bank and EBTU included measures in the subsequent
Fourth Urban Transport Project to deal with the
unresolved maintenance issue; and
27.4 the transport planning under energy constraints study
was not carried out.
28.        To summarize, the most significant amendments to the
Project were:
28.1  the reallocation of Project costs, notably from Baixada
Santista and Distrito Federal, to include 4 additional
AGLURBs, an increased PROPAV target (500 km to 800 km
and finally, 1056 km) and increased institutional
development in SLTUs;
28.2  three extensions of the implementation period;
28.3  some changes in AGLURB content particularly due to the
failure of the Sao Luis AGLURB component, and the
elimination of some components (PC3 in Florianopolis);
and
28.4  the poor record of execution for the studies.
29,        The changes of content or reallocation of funds between
and within subprojects were consistent with the stated objectives
of the Project. Given the hybrid nature of the Project, it is
perhaps not surprising that such changes should have occurred
during an implementation period which saw political changes and
financial crises in Brazil. Indeed one of the aims of the Project
was to create an effective EBTU that was able to manage both the
administrative and technical issues involved in funding urban
transport at the national level. Although original works costs were
overestimated (largely as a result of the lack of detailed designs
and evaluation of alternatives), the Project was implemented in a
period of financial instability which contributed to the
difficulties in cost estimation of civil works. Furthermore, the
PROPAV program was a new concept and the extent to which local
construction techniques, direct labor and supplied materials would
be used was unknown and was underestimated. This, together with the
general construction cost trends previously noted, reduced PROPAV



- 10 -
costs per km to US$ 40,000 per km from the original Appraisal
estimate of Lj$150,000 per km. It is noted that the Appraisal
estimate is quite high but not unreasonble - the scale of the
reduction indicates the extent to which local techniques, direct
labor and locally supplied materials (at cities' own cost) were
used. In general, although the Project was amended and
significantly delayed, EBTU showed considerable flexibility in
dealing with the problems of financing and scheduling.
Implementation Schedule
30.         The Project was originally scheduled for commencement
in the second quarter of 1981 with implementation over three and
one-half years. In reality, the Project required 7.5 years for
implementation from the second quarter of 1981 (Table 1.2).
However, if the very slow start up is recognized as well as that in
the last 2 years of the Project period only 5Z of total funds were
disbursed (largely for outstanding payments for works already
completed), then over 952 of the Project was implemented in the 4
year period from late 1982 to late 1986. Thus, it appears that the
scheduling of the works themselves was not unreasonable but the
main reasons for the extended implementation period were the overly
optimistic estimates of start up period and the time for
administrative finalization. In addition to the late start, other
influences which contributed to the none attainment of the planned
schedule for Parts B and C and the erratic disbursement profile
(re: para 41) include: (i) political changes at both national and
local level in the 1985/86 period which delayed the signing of
annual convenios between EBTU and cities; (ii) EBTU experienced
considerable delays in obtaining federal funds; budget allocations
were not made to EBTU by federal authorities until well into each
financial year and then actual availability of funds was sometimes
delayed further until the middle of the year; and (iii) the federal
government "Economic Package' introduced in 1985 resulted in
extensive reviews, and withholding, of federal funds. It is
difficult to attribute precise delays to each of these events but
the supervision reports clearly state that significant delays
occurred for these reasons. Despite all these problems, the Project
was completed in about the average period for urban transport
projects world wide.
Reporting and Monitoring
31.        EBTU collected progress iata from AGLURBs and PROPAV
participants for Parts B and C and consolidated these data with its
own progress reporting on Part A. the Institutional subproject,
into quarterly reports; these were sent to the Bank. In general,
the reports presented adequate information to inform the Bank of
physical/financial progress of the Project although
cruzeiro/cruzado inflation effects were difficult to identify and
precise contract status for PROPAV presented difficulties because
of the number of cities involved and the use of force account and
locally supplied materials. As previously noted, the Project was
subject to various implementation delays; the quarterly reports did
not present information on the reasons for delay, its impact on



- 11 -
overall Project schedule, or possible corrective actions.
32.        As Part A (Institutional) was conceived, it was proposed
that the subproject would be allocated defined targets, dates and
indicators (SAR para 5.02-5.04 and Annex 3). Indicators were
developed at Appraisal for the item of major importance - the
reorganization of EBTU. As previously noted, (para 18) the
reorganization of EBTU was delayed and amended from that proposed
at Appraisal. Consequently, the SAR target dates and indicators
were not applicable. New indicators do not appear to have been
devised and although the reorganization of EBTU was completed,
there was no monitoring of its progress or of its final
effectiveness. Proposals were made by the Bank for an attitude and
effectiveness survey of EBTU and for an internal performance audit
by EBTU but these actions were not carried out by EBTU nor were
they pursued subsequently by the Bank.
33.        The development of the EBTU OM also formed a part of the
Institutional Subproject. The OM was finally completed in 1981.
The OM did much to direct EBTU's approach to project preparation
and evaluation. It was proposed at Appraisal that the OM would be
subject to "periodic evaluation and revision" (SAR para 3.34).
However, no systematic evaluation was carried out of the use of the
OM by the participating agencies. While some parts of the OM were
widely used (e.g. economic evaluation of components), some parts of
the OM were not fully deployed. For example, the OM includes
procedures for monitoring and ex-post evaluation but no
applications of the OM in the monitoring/ex-post evaluation are
available for the preparation of this PCR.
34.        Monitoring indicators were devised for some other
aspects of the Institutional subproject during implementation
(including extending the institutional program into other cities -
para 19). The indicators concentrated on quantitative achievement
of the program such as numbers of staff in post (for the AGLURB
management units) and receiving training, number of courses
presented, numbers of consultants employed etc. This is a
reasonable approach to monitoring Project progress tEit it would
also have been desirable to make some measurement of the
effectiveness of the programs. For example, discussions with EBTU
indicate that certain of the training programs were well received
and because of their effectiveness were in demand (such as the
training of over 14,000 bus operators and operatives where it
appears that after the programs operators experienced savings in
fuel and reductions in in-bus accidents) but these effects were not
evaluated.
35.        In general, the monitoring and reporting of physical and
cost data were well presented although (i) the inflation problem
and (ii) the number of participating PROPAV cities (146) presented
difficulties of project control. However, monitoring was not used
to determine corrective actions necessary to account for delays.
Most importantly, it appears that Part A of the Project, given
great emphasis in the SAR, was not subject to systematic review of
effectiveness.



- 12 -
Procurement
36.        In accordance with the Loan Agreement, procurement for
Parts B and C was carried out totally under local competitive
bidding procedures. Force account was permitted under the Project
with prior approval of the Bank with an estimated amount at
appraisal of US$10 million. Subsequently, force account was used
to a great extent for PROPAV works with no objection from the Bank,
and the US$10 million was exceeded. The use of force account or
own materials. It should be stated that the use of force account
and own materials was entirely consistent with the philosophy of
the program to capitalize on loca: techniques.
Performance of Consultants
37.        The SAR proposed the use of consultants in two ways -
institutional and technical (SAR para 3.33). The six studies
(para 13) were included in the latter context. The SAR proposed
funding of about US$5.3 m for the study component and the studies
were reduced to about US$4.3 m. Comments on the studies included in
the Project have been made in para 26. Over 100 consultants were
used by EBTU, by the 14 AGLURBs and the PROPAV program. The
structure proposed at Appraisal (SAR para 3.33) was not followed
closely. The changes in consultancy activities arose as a result of
the changes in the Project (e.g. increased assistance to SLTUs) and
delays (e.g. to EBTU reorganization). There was no systematic
review of consultants performance.
Maintenance
38.        The Project Appraisal made no special provisions for
maintenance of the physical components of the AGLURB (although
responsibilities are defined in SAR Annex 3, Table 6) or PROPAV
subprojects. It was assumed that this would be undertaken as part
of the normal city programs. In reality, however, few Brazilian
cities have cost-effective urban road maintenance programs. This
deficiency was recognized during the preparation of the Fourth
Urban Transport Project and included as a condition in that loan.
IV. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Costs
39.        Table 2.1 presents the costs for Parts A, B and C at
each significant amendment stage described in paras 19 to 25.
Table 2.2 presents AGLURB costs on an individual basis. The
reasons for variation from original Appraisal estimates have been
discussed in paras 19 to 24.



- 13 -
Financial
40.        It was proposed that on-lending to local agencies might
form part of the Project. Although the financial study to determine
the on-lending policy was targeted for completion in 1982, it was
not completed until 1985. Some on-lending to AGLURBs and PROPAV
states was in force for the period 1981-86. In general, the policy
was unsuccessful in application since local agencies were not in a
financial position to repay any loans and the policy was cancelled
in 1986.
41.        Ultimately the financing plan proposed at Appraisal was
not maintained. Necessity for modification arose due to the cut-
backs in federal funds allocated to EBTU as a result of the
Government's "Economic Package" and public expenditure review of
1985. Project costs were reduced and Bank participation increased
and the originally proposed and final participations were: (see
Table 1.1 for amounts):
Original: Bank 352 EBTU 342 Local Agencies 312 of US$257m
Final:     Bank 452  EBTU 25Z  Local Agencies 30Z of US$200m
Disbursements
42.        The proposed and actual disbursement profiles are shown
in Table 3. The slow start up has been commented upon (para 29);
the large disbursement in 1986 (approximately US$52 m) arose since
works had been carried out in the previous period in AGLURB and
PROPAV programs but EBTU was unable to disburse due to limitations
on federal funds. When funds became available, disbursement was
made for works completed; EBTU assured the Bank that all necessary
bidding procedures had been followed. The Project was implemented
during a period of economic crisis in Brazil. National economic
problems resulted in delays in determining EBTU's annual allocation
of federal funds and delays in receipt of those funds by EBTU. It
is considered that EBTU managed the extremely difficult financial
conditions in a competent manner.
V. REEVALUATION
operational
43.        Part A was directed at both the SLTU's and at EBTU. With
the exception of the studies, Part A was successfully implemented
although subject to various changes. The measures (training,
reorganizations, OM etc) were not subject to any systematic,
quantified evaluation.  Training courses and participants at the
local level are summarized in Table 4.
44.        Part C, PROPAV, was regarded at Appraisal as a
particular test of EBTU in establishing and managing a program of
investment. The program was successfully implemented and targets
exceed. There was keen intere3t from many cities for participation
in the program and reduced unit costs, coupled with managerial



- 14 -
efficiency, allowed expansion of the program.
Economic
45.        The Project involved a large number of components in 14
AGLURBs and 146 participating PROPAV cities. The EBTU OM specifies
procedures for ex-post evaluations and it was proposed at Appraisal
that a sample of ex-post evaluations for AGLURBs would be carried
out (SAR para 5.22). This was not done in a systematic manner as
the project progressed. At the request of the Bank, EBTU has
carried out economic reevaluations for one "corridor" in each
AGLURB using the methodology developed in the OM and agreed upon by
the Bank. The results are set out in Table 5. It can be seen that
although three of the fourteen corridors fall below an 'acceptable"
IRR value of about 112 and two corridors are marginal (IRR 18.62
and 15.7Z), the remaining 9 corridors have high IERR's and there
are seven IERR's of over 50X. There are considerable technical
difficulties in assessing IERR's for the wide range of component
schemes which constitute one corridor. At Bank Appraisal, this was
recognized and precise estimation of IERR was not attempted. It was
estimated that Baixada Santista, Distrito Federal and Sao Luis
AGLURB components would result in IERR's in excess of 50+2. EBTU
reevaluation indicates these targets have been easily accomplished
even for the partially implemented Sao Luis.
46.        The PROPAV evaluation indicates 932 of schemes resulted
in IRR's of more than 11Z. Within this figure, 66Z of schemes
resulted in IRR's between 112 and 402 and 272 of schemes resulted
in IRR's of more than 402.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
47.        The hybrid nature of the Project was intended to permit
considerable autonomy to EBTU in administration and supervision of
the Project. With 14 AGLURBs and 146 participating cities in the
PROPAV program, it was impossible for the Bank to supervise closely
and it was therefore essential that EBTU fulfill its planned
institutional role. The Bank visited Brazil fourteen times in the
six-year period September 1981 to November 1987 in connection with
the Project. Six of those visits took place in the 15-month period
September 1981 to February 1983 when the Bank review of the seven
EBTU AGLURB appraisals was carried out. During its supervision
missions, the Bank identified areas where EBTU should have acted
(e.g. evaluation of the effectiveness of EBTU reorganization, need
for ex-post evaluations, problems in Sao Luis, etc). While these
points were always recorded in Aide Memoire, follow-up appears
insufficient. Long periods between missions meant that new and
more pressing problems had arisen by the next mission.



- 15 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
48.        The Project represented an innovation in urban transport
projects during the early 80's, in that for the first time, the
Bank financed a major sectoral investment program. The Project was
designed to strengthen EBTU institutionally, and hence to enable it
to take a lead role in administration of the project cycle for
investments in the sector. Although some aspects in the design and
execution of the project could have been improved, as noted below,
the Project was successfully implemented. The Project demonstrated
that EBTU was able to manage sectoral components (PROPAV) and carry
out the appraisal and supervision aspects of the project cycle
(AGLURBs and PROPAV). It has some useful lessons for future
projects.
49.        Institutional% The political, legal and financial
difficulties under which the Project had to be implemented were
underestimated. Although it was recognized at Appraisal that it
would be difficult for EBTU to simultaneously, appraise 7 AGLURBs,
initiate the PROPAV program and carry out institutional reforms
(SAR para 6.13), the measures taken to minimize the risk did not
recognize; (i) the practical (legal and political) difficulties
involved in the reorganization of EBTU; (ii) in the preparation and
utilization of new procedures (the OM); and (iii) in finalising
legal agreements with participating agencies and municipalities.
With hindsight, although the SAR was specific in its proposals, the
completion of the reorganisation within a tighter timetable, should
perhaps have been stipulated as a Condition of Disbursement.
50.        The monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness of the
institutional subproject (EBTU and AGLURB and other city levels)
could have been improved. The Project made great efforts to improve
urban transport institutions and included extensive training
programs, development of technical and operational manuals and
materials, monitoring of transport conditions and restructuring of
transport agencies. However, many of the studies proposed under the
project were abandoned or substantially delayed, and more rigorous
attention to this aspect during project supervision would have been
beneficial. Further, some programs were clearly successful,
however, in the absence of clearly defined and measurable
indicators, it is not possible to demonstrate conclusively the
impacts or the lessons learned.
51.        The lasting effects of the institutional component (Part
A) are difficult to assess. Within the context of the Third
Project, the reorganized EBTU functioned well enough to enable the
Project to be implemented in difficult circumstances and the
physical objectives were mostly achieved. During appraisal of the
Fourth Urban Project (Loan 2822-BR), I. . . the reorganization was
judged to have increased EBTU's effectiveness, and was considered
adequate by the Bank for EBTU to undertake a further project
(Fourth Project) in the more technically demanding and complex MR's
and to deal with national urban transport policy issues. When the
Third Project was prepared, it was considered that EBTU would
retain its national role in policy formulation for, and funding of,
urban transport and the proposed reorganization reflected that



- 16 -
role. Sinee that time, there have been increasing moves to
regionalize transport planning (partly recognized in the Fourth
Project by attempts to strengthen regional offices) and, EBTU has
undergone various changes of role and ministerial supervision.
Currently, EBTU has been extinguished; its functions have been
assigned to GEIPOT (a transport planning agency in the Ministry of
Transport); and the administration and funding policy for urban
transport, is still being defined.
52.        Equally, with respect to the SLTU aspects of the
Institutional subproject, it is not possible to be definitive as to
their impacts. Evaluation was not undertaken on a systematic basis.
This is unfortunate since many of the EBTU sponsored training
programs appear to have been very successful (e.g. for bus
operators) and in some cities, competent transport planning
agencies have been established. Nevertheless, other parts of the
subproject have not been completely successful such as the
continuation of the management units, the full implementation of
SITURB etc. While recent political changes may alter the role of
the SLTUs, it is likely that individuals and agencies which
benefited from the Project will continue to play a8 important rcle
in urban transport.
53.        Financial:  The Project was prepared during a period of
rising inflation (15OZp.a in 1982), and volatile exchange rate
fluctuations. However few persons in Brazil or Washington, could
have anticipated the incredible political and economic changes that
subsequently, made any realistic cost estimates impossible. More
important, significant delays were encountered by EBTU both in
determining allocated funding from SEPLAN and in obtaining those
funds. The situation was exacerbated by the Government's "economic
packages" introduced during the Project period, thus contributing
further to the erratic disbursement profile.
54.        In retrospect, the financial policies underpinning urban
road transport projects should have been more carefully reasoned
and project design accordingly structured. For example, on-lending
policy studies were completed after extensive delays, and on-
lending abandoned when the agencies' borrowing capacity were found
to be limited. Similarly the experience with direct cost recovery
was unsucessful. Since eventually municipal administrations will
have to assume the debt liabilities for transport infrastructure
(excluding buses), and for maintainance expenditures, from general
municipal revenues, it is desirable that such projects in future
include at a minimum, a review of the financial health of
beneficiary municipalities. Municipalities can in turn seek
alternate forms for cost recovery and other resource mobilisation
mechanisms, without further increasing their dependence of federal
and external funds. This conclusion would imply some changes in
project design (see para.58 below).
55.        Technical: The Project schedule was overly optimistic.
The schedules for individual works were not unreasonable but the
schedule was seriously affected by a considerable start-up delay
which was exacerbated by the limited availability of detailed
designs. This aspect of the schedule problem would be unlikely to



_ 17 -
occur in a present-day Bank project; the requirement that, at
Appraisal, the first year program final designs should be available
would limit such delays. At various periods in the Project, the
shortage of counterpart funds (both federal and local) and
political changes greatly influenced the schedule. While these
factors cannot be predicted with certainty, the original schedule
made no allowance for them. The schedule achieved reinforces the
Bank policy of using "standard" disbursement profiles. Since the
original Project schedule was not achieved, the disbursement
schedule was also delayed. In addition to the start up delays, the
erratic disbursement profile was affected by the availability of
federal and local counterpart funds.
56.        With respect to Part B (AGLURBs), the majority of the
physical objectives appear to have been achieved. The
representative sample subject to re-evaluation showed over 75Z of
the sub-components with exceptionally high rates of return.
However, there were also failures. The Sao Luis subproject was not
effectively implemented due largely to political differences
between the state and federal government and consequently financial
problems, low technical capacity, and constant political changes.
57.        There was overestimation of costs at Appraisal for the
first three AGLURB's - attributable to the lack of detailed
designs. The continued reduction in cost of works throughout the
Project resulted from economic effects outside the control of the
Project or of EBTU. The PROPAV program (Part C) was innovative and
has since been replicated in many urban projects i- Latin America
and other parts of the world. The unit implementatin costs of the
program were overestimated at Appraisal. The use o,i local
materials and appropriate techLology has resulted jr. substantial
cost savings. It is recommended that a sample review '-e carried out
across a number of projects to evaluate the justificqtlon of
procurement limits for example in connection with "force accounts"
and to obtain a more typical procurement profile (ICB,LCB,etc) for
future use.
58.        Some problems were experienced by EBTU in project
control since 146 cities were involved; thus there was a danger of
fragmentation of investment with limited return. In the later
stages of the Project, the Bank encouraged EBTU to concerLtrate
investments in MR's and larger cities to achieve both
administrative simplification and "a critical mass" of schemes such
that tangible benefits could be derived for the bus system. The use
of an Operation Manual was particularly useful in maintaining
consistency across such a geographically spread area. Given (i) the
comments noted in para.54 above; (ii) the high priority of
maintaining efficient Bus transport corridors for all cities
(irrespective of size); (iii) the very high number of requests from
cities for assistance in improving public transport for the low-
income populations that live on the periferies of Brazilian cities,
it is worth changing the strategy for assistance to the sector and
hence the design of future projects. A cost effective solution
would be to incorporate essential institutional development sub-
components (transport planning, road pricing, traffic management,



- 18 -
road maintainance, etc) in municipal development projects, and to
design special urban transport projects focused on multimodal
integrated transport projects, and non-road based systems
(eg.Light-rail Transit, etc.).
59.        Maintenance was not dealt with in detail in the SAR and
the maintenance of physical works has been erratic. The present
Bank approach to urban transport projects would require a
definitive maintenance policy and plan for such a Project.
Recognizing this deficiency, the establishment of maintenance
programs was a loan condition in the Foarth Project.
60.        In summary, the lessons learned are:
(i) the political, legal and financial difficulties
under which the Project had to be implemented were underestimated.
The substantial completion of institutional reorganisation, of
draft Operational Manuals, etc. should be stipulated as conditions
of disbursement;
(ii) the monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness of
the institutional subprojects (EBTU and AGLURB and other city
levels) could have been improved with the inclusion of clearly
defined and measurable indicators;
(iv) Estimating costs, devising implementing schedules,
etc during a period of high inflation, volatile exchange rate
fluctuations, and changing administrative arrangements; is not an
easy task and substantially increases the political and financial
risks for the project;
(v) financial policies (onlending terms, grants, direct
and indirect cost- recovery, etc.) should have been more carefully
reasoned and reflected in the project design. It is desirable that
such projects in future include at a minimum, a review of the
financial health of beneficiary municipalities;
(vi) to the extent possible, as much as possible of
detailed technical design for the first year's program should be
completed by appraisal;
(vii) the use of local materials and appropriate
technology has resulted in substantial cost savings. It is
recommended that a sample review be carried out across a number of
projects to evaluate the justification of procurement limits for
example in connection with "force accounts" and to obtain a more
typical procurement profile (ICB,LCB,etc) for future use.
(viii) the use of an Operating Manual was invaluable for
managing the geographically dispersed project; and
(ix) Bus transportation (generally by private operators)
is an universal form of public transport in all Brazilian cities
(irrespective of size). The planning and maintainance of efficient
transportation corridors for people and goods is directly related
to the effective city administration, which includes inter-alia,
efficient financial management, land use control and traffic
management. Perhaps in future, a more cost-effective strategy for
the Borrower and the Bank, to support objectives and investments
similar to the Third Urban Transport Project, would be to
incorporate essential institutional development sub-components
(transport planning, road pricing, traffic management, road



- 19 -
maintainance, etc) in municipal development projects. Urban
Transport Projects would thus address the policy and investment
needs related to the needs of primarily Metropolitan Regions and
the two 'mega-cities" of Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro (multimodal
integrated transport projects, and non-road based systems such as
Light Rail Transit (LRT), rapid transit (metros), etc.



20
TABLE 1.1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 1965-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGLURB Subproject - Summary of Physical Works
_________________________________________________________________________________
I     AGLURD         Corr- 'Feeder I Rehab I  Bus  I  Bus  I Cycle IBridgesIF.rriesi
dorn    I Roads 1 Roads 1 8tops ITero'lI Ways    (unit) I(unit) I
(;:k)       (ki)   '(k)   ICunit) I(unit) I (km)   I                     I
IBaBxads SsntistaI   9.70 1 44.82 1 12.75 6              I      1 I         1      1 I
!Distrito Federal:           I S2.69 1 30.66 1    96 1          3 1         I        I
18so Luis           1  3.28 1         1         I        I      1 1                   I
ICuimbe             1 14.77   6 55.23 :  2.32 1   226 f    11 1  2.83                 I
IFlorianopolis    1 29.30 1 S3.20 I  6.65 I              1      21          :
IGoisnas            I  7.00   33.21 I  0.60 1    24 I           3           :      1
I1Macelo            1 27.00  1 SO.02 I 18.36 I   180 1    13 :                     1 I
INstal               53.80 : 42.69 1  2.70 1   120 1            9 1  7.30          1 1
IJoso Peston        I 31.18 : 27.30            1:  630 1           1        1
;Vale do Aco           1.60 :  9.84    5.14 I    71             1 1   5.52 ;
iArscaju            I 13.80 1 31.06    9.06 :   132 1           S 1 40.00 I                 3
;Teresana             30.28  i 32.20 I 13.55        299 I    34 i 24.90 I
Ilnevi                        1  7.34   44.10 1   268 I        1 1         1
!Vitorini                    I 17.95 I 12.72 1   296 1          1 I         I
--------------+----------------------------------------- ------- -----------------
:TOT.A              1221.71 1457.55 :1SB.60 1  2342 1    85 I 80.55 1              4 i       3
------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---



21
TABLE 1.2
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGLURB Subproject Implementation Performance - Physical Works
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------_
AGLURB     I AT APPRAISAL (4)1   AT 1984 (1)  I    ACTUAL         IMONTHS I
--------------- -I- ---------------- I-----------------I-- -----------  IDELAYI
ISTART(3) ICOMPLETEISTART(3) jCOMPLETEISTART(3) ICOMPLETEI  (2)  I
IBaixeda Santistal   S/81 1  2/84 I          I        I  2/82 1  6/87 j   40 1
IDistrito Federall   6/81 1  2/84 1          1        1  6/82.1   6/87 1   40 1
ISo Luis             6/81 1  2/84 1          1        1  8/8e 1  6/.7I    39I
lCuiaba          I  6/82 1  8/84 1  2/84 1 12/86 I 11/82 1  6/87 I   18 I
iFlorianopolls   I  6/82 1  8/84 1  2/82 1  6/88 1  8/82 1  8/87 1   12 1
lCooania             6/82 1  8/84 1 10/83 1  8/86 1  1/84 1  3/87 1    9 I
IMnceio          I  6/82 1  8/84 1 10/83 1  6/88 1  2/84 1 10/87 1   18 I
Natal               6/82 1  8/84 I 11/82 I 12/85 I 11/82 I 10/87            28
IJoao Pesso.         6/82 1  8/84 I 10/83 j  8/8e I  1/84 I  8/87 I   12
IVael do Aco     I  6/82 I  8/84 I  3/82 I  e/8e I  7/84 I 10/87             18
IAracaju         I        I        I  4/84 1  e/86 1  4/84 1 10/87 1   18 I
ITeresina        I        I        I  3/84 1  8/86 1  7/84 1 10/87 I   18 I
IManaus          I        I        I  7/84 I  e/8e 1  6/84 1 10/87 1   18 I
IVitoriI                           I  7/84 I  8/86 1 10/84 1  6/87 1   12 1
(1) Date of definition of final 7 AGLURB's
(2) Months delay in completion given from Appraisal date for Bsixada Santisto,
Distrito Federal end Sao Luis and from 1984 for other AGLURB's
(3) START is defined by target bidding date
(4) Mid month of quarter given In SAR



22
TABLE 2.1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Costs and Sources of Funds (in US: million)
---------------------------------------------------------------
I Subproject  lWorld Bank I   EBTU/    I   Local    I   Total    I
and Date    I             I  Federal   I              I             I
IINSTITUTIONALI                                                        I
IPART A  1981 1        13.2 1         0.0 I         0.0 I        13.2 1
1982 I       12.3 I         0.7 I         0.0 I        13.0 I
1986 I       12.31          0.7           0.0 I        13.0 I
1986          8.1           4.9 I         0.0 I        13.0 I
-------------_  I----------- I----------- I-----------    ----------- I
IAGLURB         I                   I             I                    I
IPART 8  1981 I        56.1.1        6e.5 8        66.8 I       168.7 1
1982        568.6          6 2.6         6 86.4 I     188.6
1985         68.5 j        37.9 I        48.9 I       146.3
1986 I       64.8 I        89.8 I        60.7 I       146.3
IPROPAV         I            I             I             I
IPART C  1981 1        21.7 I        80.9 I        22.6 1        76.1 I
1982 I       19.2 I        26.1 I        13.9 I        68.2
1986 I       19.2 I        10.9          12.3 I        42.4
1988 I       27.1 I         4.8 0        10.6 I        42.4
ITOTALS         I             I            I
I         1981 I       90.0 I        87.7 I        79.3 I       267.0
1982         90.0          88.4 j        79.3         267.7
1985 I       90.0 I        49.6 I        61.2 I       200.7
1986 I       90.0 I        49.6 I        61.2 I       200.7
---------------------------------------------------------------



23
TABLE 2.2
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT ((LOAN 1986-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Costs - AGLURB Subproject Costs (USS Millions,
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-
AGLURB      I   AT    I AT 1984 1 REVISED I REVISED I  FINAL  I
IAPPRAISALI           1  1984   1  1986   1  1988   1
_- -- -- -- -- -- - - - -- I-----   I -- - -l - - - - -- I-- -- - ---- I-- -- - - --- I-- ------- I
IBaixeda Santistal   36.20 1   36.20 1   20.10 1   20.00 1   19.60 1
Distrito Federall   33.20 1   33.20 1   22.60 1   16.20 1   16.00 I
IS*o Luis         1   12.70 1   12.70 1   14.00 1    6.20 1    2.80 1
Culabs            I          1   13.00 I   12.70 1   12.00 1   11.60 I
IFlorionopolis   I j              22.40 1   26.70 1   13.30 1   14.80 I
Go;ni             I          I   13.30 1   12.10 1   10.20 1    9.80 I
IMoceio           I          I   12.70 1   12.70 1   11.90 I    9.60 I
Nstal             I          I   11.90 I    9.90 I    8.20 1    7.80 I
lJoao Pessom      I          I   13.30 I   12.80 I   11.60 I   19.40
Vxle do Aco                             I    9.10 I    7.30 I    6.90
Aracsju           I          I          I   10.60 1   10.40 1    8.70
Teresins          I          I          I    8.50 1    8.40 1    S.90 I
IMenous           I          I                8.00 e     6.00 I    7.20 1
IVitori           I          I          I    8.00 I    6.70 1    6.60 1
lUnsllocated      I   86.60 e           I                      I          I
ITOTAL            1  188.70 1  168.70 1  188.50 1  146.30 1  145.30 1
_-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---



24
BRAZIL                          TABLE 3
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursement Profiles
SAR and Actual
90 -
80-
70 -
60 -
En
e n    50
C 0
Us    40-
U'
L
30-
20-
10 
0-
1982      1983       1984      1985      1986      1987
Time (Quartera>
0   SAR Dis. Profile                    +   Actuol Dis. Profile
(US$ Millions)
Fiscal Year                      SAR Forecast                    Actual
1982                                  19.0                           0
1983                                  59.6                            7.7
1984                                  85.7                           16.4
1985                                  90.0                           25.5
1986                                   -                             36.5
1987                                                                 88.3 1/
I/ By September 1988 the remaining US$1.7 M had been disbursed.



25
TABLE 4
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGLURB Training Progrsm
Bus Oper.tional Training In Local Areas
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__
I   I     AGLURB      IORIGINAL PROPOSAL IREVISED PROP 1985 1 AS IMPLEMENTED  I
I   I                 I-----------------------------------------------------I
INumberPsrticipantsINumberPsrticiprntsiNumberPrrticipantaI
I   I             ICourse  1      2   lCourse  1      2   ICoursa   1      2
I-------------------+--------------------------------------------------------
I1 IARACAJO           1   16  3200   560 1   12   680   20         16   366   795 
12 IBAIXADA SANTISTAI    8            200 1                    I    9    45   138
IaICUIBA              I    8   900   103        8   700   3661   30   781   718
I4 IDISTRITO FEDERALI   13  o000   962 I   17             3486 I  44  4378  1286 
IS IFLORIANOPOLIS   1   24  3457   799 |    7  1000   210 I   19  1115   833
e6 IGOIANIA           1   12  2400   977 I   12  2000   235 I   27  5632   662
I7 IJOAO PESSOA       I   15   480   395 I    9   600   180 I   22  1031   465
I8 IMACEIO            I   12   600   317 I   12  1200   420 I   26  1195   410
19 IMANAUS            I   16  4050   390 I   14  1600   300 I   29  4656  1283
110 INATAL            I    8  1200   180 I    4  1500    50 I   19  1370   449
ill ISAO LUIS         I    8  1200   458 I      6   600      0 so   9   454   286
112 ITERSINA          I   15  1200   466        8  1000   180 I   13   865   217
113 IVALE DO ACO      I    4   650    84 I         s60oo    68     10  1138   289
114 IVITORIA          l   13  3200   440 I   10  3000   250 I   15  2049   682
----------------------------+----------------4---------________________________
I                     1  172 28137  6311 1  124 14300  8034 1 288 24953  8413 I
Notes:
Pertlcpants 1 : Drivers and Conductors of city buses
2   Maintenance personnel, technicians, managers, transport planner



26
TABLE 6
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ACLURB Subprojeet Evaluet.on
AGLURB     I       CORREDOR        I AT APPRAISALI    EX-POST  IEX POST % OF  I
I  I  I       I             IORIGINAL VALUEI
I  I                   I B/C  IIRR (%I B/C  IIRR (%I B/C  I IRR
1Baixada SantistalSantos Dumont          1 26.1 1152.7 116.0 1 97.8 1-30.8W1 -36.9W1
IDistrito FederallCeilandia              1 8.7 1 90.8 1 7.8 1103.5 I 15.6W1  14.3%I
Sso Luis        ICentro Anil            j 10.7 1196.3 l 10.6 1117.8 I -0.2%1 -39.BXI
jCulabs          IJoao Gomes Sobrinho   I 2.2 I 32.4 1 1.2 I 15.7 1-43.b%1 -61.6%
IFlorisnopolis   |Insular Sul               1 1.*  I 13.1 1 0.6 1 -0.2 1-49.1XW-101.8X1
1Golsnin         lAnhanguera Oeste       1 21.8 1323.7 1 1.4 1 18.6 1-93.8W1 -94.3X%
Macelo           lArea Centrol           I 6.6 1 93.4 1 4.1 I 63.0 I-27.1XI -32.01
gNstal           ICel Estevam/Rio Brancol  2.6 1 b3.3 1 1.9 1 27.1 1-27.9X1 -49.1XI
jJoao Pessoo     IPedro II               I 6.6 1 93.0 1 6.3 1 96.2 1 -3.7X1   3.4X1
,Vale do Aco     IAC de c-l Fobriciano  I 1.0 I 10.3 1 0.7 1 3.5 1-29.9XI -66.01
IAracaju         IMaranhao               I 1.8 1 29.2 1 0.9 1 9.6 J-48.1XI -67.2X1
ITeresina        IMiguel Roso            I 3.2 1 51.9 1 2.0 1 29.8 1-36.9WX  -42.6X1
IMenaus          IConstantino Nery       1 7.9 1132.7 1 7.0 1107.8 1-1o.S0I -18.7X1
IVitoria         lArea Central           I 11.3 1189.1 119.7 1296.9 1 76.OXI  S7.OXI
-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---- -- -- -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- -- ---- - -- -- ---



27
FIGURE 11 - EBTU ORGANTION AT APPRAISAL
j Legal adviser
* Auditing
*- PRESIDENT-           |
Studies/coordination
* Control/evaluation
* Public relations
................................................................
* Persnnel
* Ouman resources   -i
* Training
* -ADINISTATIVEm-
DIRECTOATE         I*ateierals
* Aduinistration - |
* General services
* Information
.....................................................................
* Economic Studies
* Economics              |                      Program /Budget
* -FIWANCIAL                                     * Control
DMRECTORE
t Accounting
* Investment Control ---
t Stock
.............................  ....................... . ............
* Planning
* Planning                r Project analyses
* Programming
*-ATEL' --
DIRECTOIA3E                                 * Technology transfer
* I and D                ATechnology development
t Training
........... ....................................................
* Works Xonitoring
* Nonitoring/Control -
* works Control
,- OPERATIONS         -                                                * P. T. Assistance
DIRECTOWA2E                                 * Inst relations
* Inst relations         I    -
* Special programs
* Trains
..........................................         ................



28
FIGURE 13 - EBTU ORGANIZATION AT PROJECT O LETION
Administrative Council
PRESIZNT             COORDINATION GROUPS
Special Consultants  *                             * Technical and Planning
Legal Department      t                          -* Institutional
Human Resources                   *              -*  International Lid
Library                       *                  -   External Resources
-* Social Conunication
DIRECTORATE OF             DIRECTORATE OF              DIRECTORATE OF
TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT    FIKANCE/ADHIMISTRATION         PROJECT EXECUTION
DIDET                     DIAFI                        DIM
* Project Planning        * Administration            * Coord Executive 1 (1)
and Institutional         * Staff
Developsent               * Personnel               * Coord Executive 2 (1)
* Information
* Transport                                           * Coord Executive 3 (1)
Information            * Finance
* Investsent              * Coord Executive 4 (1)
f Public Transport            control
Studies and               * Financial               (1) Regional groups
Development                 Control                     for imple mentation
execution and
* Technological                                           supervision
Development



