Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3180-BR
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 27, 1981
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 2, 1981)
US$1.00    =  65.2 Cruzeiros
US$0.15    =  1.0 Cruzeiros
US$15,344  =  1 million Cruzeiros
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGLURB    Programa de Aglomerados Urbanos
BNH       Banco Nacional de Habitacao
CNDU      Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
EBTU      Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos
EMTU-SP   Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos de Sao Paulo
FDTU      Fundo de Desenvolvimento dos Transportes Urbanos
FGTS      Fundo de Garantia de Tempo de Servico
FNDU      Fundo Nacional de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Urbano
PME       Programa de Mobilizacao Energetica
II PND    II Plano Nacional de Desenvolvimento
III PND   III Plano Nacional de Desenvolvimento
PROPAV    Programa de Pavimentacao de Baixo Custo em Areas de Baixa Renda
PTAEC     Programa de Transporte Alternativo para Economia de Combustivel
RFFSA     Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A.
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica



P13-IR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRA4Z IL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJEC"
Table of Contents
Page
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ......                          .1....                                       I
A.   Urbanization and Living Conditions  in Urban Areas  .                    .............    I
3.  Urban Policy and Government Actinns  ........ .               .............. -          3
C.   Urban Institutions  and Investment  Financing  ....                   ...............    3
D.   Bank Involvement  in the TUrban Sector  ..........................   5
II.   URBAN TRANSPORT  ............6...................................    6
A.   Polilcy Framework  ...... ........6.................  ...........   6
B.   Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos  (EBTU')                   ....             9
C.   Investment Programming  .......................................  10
D.   Program Implementation  ........                ................................   13
III. THE PROJECT  .......           ... .................... ...                   ...  17
A.   Project Rationale  and Objectives  ....  .....               .............    17
B.  The AGLURB Subprojects                       ......                                   ........  18
C.  The PROPAV Subproject22
(,.~~~~ Th RPV                upoect  .  .......  ........  .............................. ..2
D.   The Institutional  Subproject  .................. ...............   24
IV.   PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN                               ~ ..................... ....  28
A. Cost Estimates .................. - .                                                   28
B. Financing Plan.............                                                    ..... 30
C.   Financial  Impact on Local Governments  ......                  ..................  31
D.   Procurement and DisbursemenLs  .........                ........................   32
E. Accounts and Audits .......................                                             34
V.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS  ...... .......... .....................   35
A.   Responsibilities  for Project Execution  ...................   35
B.  EBTU Responsibilities ...........................                                      35
C.  Local Responsibilities ..............................                                  39
D.   Flow of Funds  and Legal Arrangements  ......                 ....................  40
E.   Implementation Schedule  ....................................                         41
F.   Monitoring and Evaluation . .....................................   41
VI.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................42
A.   Overall Results  ..............................   42
B.   AGLURB Subprojects  ..............................   43
C.   PROPAV Subproject  ..............................   45
D.   Impact on the Urban Poor  ............                   ..................   46
E.  Risks .................................... __ .................  47
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Brazil in June/July 1980. The mission was made up of P. Watson (Chief of
Mission), C.-H. Mumme (LCPUR), E. Haythorne (LEG), N. Boyle, J. Cracknell,
J. Hicks, and W. Reilly (Consultants). Mr. P. Watson was responsible for
the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authrizationj



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................................................  49
ANNEXES
1.  City-Specific Characteristics .................................  51
2.  Part A:   Status of First Urban Transport Project  ....              ..........  67
Part B:   Status of Second Urban Transport Project ....              .........  70
3.  Tables and Charts .............................................  71
1. Detailed Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditure -
Distrito Federal         ...................     .....................  71
(a)  Brazlandia ...........................................  71
(b)  Ceilandia ............................................  72
(c)  Gama .................................................  73
(d)  Planaltina ...........................................  74
(e)  Sobradinho ...........................................  75
(f)  Taguatinga ...........................................  76
(g)  Summary and Technical Assistance  .....................  77
2. Detailed Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditure -
Baixada Santista         ...................     ....................  78
3. Detailed Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditure -
Sao Luis       ....................... .........................  79
4.  Cost Estimates for Technical Assistance to EBTU .... .......  80
5.  Summary Project Financial Timetable ........ ..              .............  81
6.  Local Responsibilities - AGLURB, Distrito Federal  .........  82
7.  Local Responsibilities - AGLURB, Baixada Santista .........  83
8.  Local Responsibilities - AGLURB, Sao Luis .......               ..........  84
9.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  ........ ..             .............  85
10.  Key Indicators - Distrito Federal  ......... ..             ..............  86
11.  Key Indicators - Sao Luis .............         ..      ..................  87
12.  Key Indicators - Baixada Santista ......... ..              ..............  88
13.  Key Indicators - PROPAV ..............         ..     ...................  89
Chart l(a):   Current EBTU Organizational Chart ....             ........  90
l(b):   New EBTU Organizational Chart ....             ............  91
2    :  Institutional Subproject Indicators  ....           ......  92
4.  A.  EBTU Project Manual (Outline)  .............................  93
B.  EBTU PROPAV Manual (Outline)  ............................... 104
5.  EBTU Project Cycle ............................................. 107
6.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ..... 110
Maps
IBRD 15235
IBRD 15236
IBRD 15237
IBRD 15238



I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.  L;-bkanization and Living Conditions in Urban Areas 1/
1.01      Trends in Urban Growth.  The growth of Brazil's urban areas since
1950 has been rapid: the urban population (as measured by an international
standard definition that includes Cov.7ns of 20,000 inhabitants or more)
increased fromT 11 -irillion in 1950 (21% of the total population) to 201 million
in 19Q-) %28"%) andi 36 million in 1970 (39%). 2/  Urban growth rates averaged
5.4%0 per annum. i, th£ 190's and 5.6% per annum in the 1960's, compared
with 31% and 2.9%, respee ively, for the Brazilian population as a whole.
In absolute terms, 69,. of urban population growth between 1960 and 1970
took place in the nine mietropolitan regions, 3/ with Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo accounting for almost 40%.  The highest growth razes were observed
rn towns of between 100,000 and 200,000 inhabitants (average 9.7% p.a.) and
in the peripheral -municipalities of the metropolitan regions (average 9.4%
v.a.).  In the Northeast region, urban growth was less than tne national
auerage  while Lhe Ceenter-West had higher than average urban growth rates,
caused primar-ily by the settlement of Brasilia and the expansion of other
growth centers such as Belo Horizonte and Goiania.  However, the large
imoalance between the Soutneast and the other regions persisted:  in both 1960
and 1970, 39% of Brazil's urban population lived in the Rio de Janeiro or Sao
Paulo metropolitan regions.
1.02      Urbar. Poverty.  Poverty is prevalent in Brazilian cities.  The most
comprehensive data currently available are from the 1970 census. The percen-
tage of urban fam-ilies in relative poverty (according to the Bank definition)
ranges from 55%1 i.n Large southern cities (e.g., Porto Alegre and Curitiba) to
nearly 80% in 1large northeastern cities (e.g., Recife). Outside the metro-
politan regions the results are similar, with the percentage ranging from 38%
in Florianopol-is to 70% in Natal.  More aggregate data from the 1972 National
Sample Survey of Yiouseholds (PNAD) confirm the pattern: the percentage of
families in poverty is estimated to be 60% in the combined Soulth and Southeast
regions and 83% in the Northeast. These data indicate that the extent of
poverty in small towns must be even greater than in the metropolitan regions
and medium-sized cities.
1.03      Thus, it is c'ear that urban poverty is common in Brazil, even in
the apparently prosperous southern cities. However, not only is it more wide-
spread in the Northeast, it is also more intense. The degree of deprivation
is illustrated by the data on families whose available income is so low that
L/   Unless otherwise noted, the empirical data in this section are
based, fo-r consistency, on the Brazil Human Resources Special Report,
July 1979, World Bank Report No. 2604.
2/   A census is taken every ten years.  Comparable data from the 1980 Census
are not yet available.
3/   Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Porto Alegre,
Salvador, Recife, Fortaleza, and Belem.



- 2 -
it would constitute poverty for an individual: 16% of families in Recife and
30% in Natal fall into this category, compared with 4% in Curitiba and 5% in
Florianopolis. Lack of employment, inadequate or non-existent urban services,
squalid housing, malnutrition, and disease characterize the living conditions
of three-quarters of the population in cities such as Recife and Natal.
1.04      Shelter and Urban Services.  Access to shelter and urban services
is inadequate in Brazilian cities. Although the situation in southern and
southeastern cities is relatively better than in the rest of the country,
there are notable exceptions in the peripheral areas of the metropolitan
regions where as much as half the population has substandard housing and no
water connection or sanitation facility. The Northeast and North are very
poorly served, with the worst problems again appearing in the peripheries of
the large cities. According to 1970 census data, 85% of urban dwellings
in Brazil could be considered "durable." This indicator, however, fails
to take account of the proportion of substandard dwellings and those subject
to flooding, erosion, overcrowding, and the lack of basic infrastructure
such as drainage or paved roads. It may safely be concluded that a large
proportion of Brazilian families live in squalid, inadequate housing. Moreover,
in 1980 alone, some 700,000 households will be added to the urban population
and by 1985 a total of between 3.5 million and 4.0 million new households will
seek accommodation in the sector. Access to adequate housing will be difficult
for most of them.
1.05      Better data exist on access to water and sanitation facilities.
In 1970, 53% of all urban dwellings were estimated to have piped water and
44% were connected to a sewerage network or a septic tank. While the level
of access to these basic services was barely adequate in the South/Southeast,
in the Northeast the situation was critical: 75% of urban dwellings had no
access to piped water and 80% was connected to neither a sewerage network nor
a septic tank.
1.06      Urban Transport.  The rapid pace of urban growth triggered an
even faster growth in the demand for urban transport. In the metropolitan
areas, the number of person trips per day by all modes increased by up to 9% a
year between 1968 and 1975, when the number of daily trips varied from 822,000
in Belem to 12 million in Sao Paulo. The principal transport modes (apart
from walking) are bus and automobile 1/. The share carried by bus ranges from
52% in Sao Paulo to 81% in Rio de Janeiro. While the bulk of demand is
carried by buses, their share of traffic has been falling at the expense of
the car. Since 1965, the private car fleet has grown at an average rate
of 11% per annum, twice the rate of growth of the urban population. By
1975, private car ownership in the metropolitan areas had reached 2.3 million.
1.07      The provision of urban transport infrastructure, in particular
the construction and paving of roads, has failed to keep pace with demand.
The gap is most striking on the peripheries of the metropolitan regions where
the majority of recent migrants settle: in Recife, as many as 30% of urban
1/   Rail urban transport is a significant factor only in Rio de Janeiro and
Sao Paulo, carrying 450,000 and 500,000 passengers a day, respectively.



- 3 -
dwellers lack adequate access to public transportation and have to walk an
average of 5 km to work.  In metropolitan areas, the journey to work takes an
average of one hour. The poor are particularly at the mercy of bad transport.
They tend to make longer trips and thus suffer more from service delays.
More important, an initial walk of several kilometers to a bus stop can
seriously restrict their range of employment opportunities. In the city
centers, an increasing number of vehicles competing for limited road space has
resulted in increased congestion. This is particularly detrimental to bus
operating speeds that frequently are as low as 5-8 kph.  Also, in some cities
such as Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, pollution has reached high levels.
B. Urban Policy and Government Actions
1.08      Formulation of a national urban policy began with the Second National
Development Plan (II PND) for the period 1975-1979. The policy is still being
put into operation. The urban development strategy formulated in the II PND
is based on the proposition that recent urbanization trends (i.e., i:he rapid
metropolization of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo) have introduced serious
distortions in the urban structure and in spatial organization. These changes
have exacerbated problems of poverty, underemployment, and infrastructure
deficiencies in urban centers and have created disparities among and within
regions. The II PND introduced two major complementary lines of policy. First,
for metropolitan regions, the administrative system should be strengthened and
the provision of basic infrastructure consolidated. At the same time, measures
should be taken to prevent further concentration of population and economic
activity in the Southeast region, particularly in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.
Second, medium-sized cities (MSC) should be developed to reinforce a demographic
trend that became evident in the 1960's by strengthening the second tier of the
urban structure and supporting the development of cities in the interior. The
significance of the II PND is that it represents the first attempt to formulate
a national urbanization strategy and to introduce the necessary institutional
framework and policy instruments.
1.09      The same ideas are taken up again in the III PND (1980-85), published
in September 1979, where they are set more clearly in the context of Brazil's
macroeconomic goals of rapid growth with redistribution, combating inflation,
and reducing the balance of payments deficit, the latter largely through reducing
the demand for imported petroleum products. This broader context is important
because it adds an additional constraint to urban transport programs. The III
PND also makes more explicit the necessity to offer growth alternatives to the
metropolitan regions. Particularly important to this decentralization effort
are the larger medium-sized cities and conurbations, that are already showing
a trend toward forming new metropolitan areas.
C.  Urban Institutions and Investment Financing
1.10      Under the Brazilian constitutional system, each level of government
is autonomous and a federal agency has limited statutory authority to influence
the decisions of state and local governments.  However, the Brazilian public



- 4 -
investment financing system demonstrates a high degree of centralization in
the federal government for the collection and distribution of revenues. The
states and municipalities have limited local tax revenues and receive only
small shares (about 20%) of federal tax revenues, most of which are earmarked
for sectoral uses. This severely limits local capacity for autonomous invest-
ment decision making. Thus, states and especially municipalities are highly
dependent on federal agencies, in terms of both the types of investment
that can be financed and the resources that are available. The result is that
most investment decisions are a compromise between local political autonomy
and federal program and financial control.
1.11      Agencies and Programs. The three main federal agencies in the urban
sector are: the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano (CNDU), an inter-
ministerial council established in 1975 to be responsible for overall urban
policy and programming; the Banco Nacional de Habitacao (BNH), created
in 1964 and responsible for investments in housing and complementary infra-
structure (water supply, sewerage, etc.); and the Empresa Brasileira dos
Transportes Urbanos (EBTU), founded in 1976 and responsible for urban transport
investments. 1/ Through these agencies, the Brazilian Government is attempting
to achieve its urban development goals by means of a variety of programs. The
more important are the Metropolitan Regions Program and the Medium-Sized
Cities Program (administered by CNDU), the Popular Housing Program, the Water
and Sewerage Program, and the Urban Rehabilitation Program (administered by
BNH), and the Urban Transport Program (administered by EBTU). In addition,
there are programs to promote employment and income growth run by the Centro
Brasileiro de Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa (CEBRAE) and public and private
banks. Since the agencies that are active in the urban sector belong to
several different ministries, operating the above programs in a coordinated
manner has been difficult: there are overlaps between the programs of different
agencies; the establishment of investment priorities is fragmented; the level
of technical analysis of projects differs among and within agencies; and there
are differences in both the capacity and interest of agencies in harnessing or
developing existing local expertise. In general, programs have had limited
success in focusing on the problems of the urban poverty group. The creation
of CNDU has created an organization with the institutional powers to coordinate
urban development programs. It is too soon, however, to be able to judge its
success in coordinating the activities of established agencies such as BNH and
EBTU.
1.12      Financing.  BNH dominates the federal urban investment budget:  its
1980 investment program was Cr$152 billion (US$2.33 billion), 92% of the
total. EBTU accounted for 7% of the total with Cr$12.1 billion and CNDU for
1% with Cr$1.3 billion. EBTU and CNDU receive the bulk of their resources
from the Fundo Nacional de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Urbano (FNDU). BNH
programs are financed primarily through the Fundo de Garantia de Tempo de
Servico (FGTS).
1/   The Federal Highway Department (DNER) also invests in urban areas, but
only for the urban portions of interstate highways. Because of the
size of the facilities involved, such investments are expected to amount
to Cr$8 billion (US$123 million in 1981.



1.13      The FNDU, created in 1975 to finance urban development projects,
has five subaccounts: urban transport, sanitation, social centres, industrial
estates, and other programs. The fund is financed primarily from vehicle
registration, fuel, and lubricant taxes. The urban transport subaccount (75%
of the total) was until recently earmarked for EBTU, forming the Fundo de
Desenvolvimento dos Transportes Urbanos (FDTU), with the "other programs"
subaccount (10% of the total) earmarked for programs administered by CNDU.
The allocation of FNDU funds is currently under change as a result of Decree-
Law No. 1754 of 31/12/79, which establishes that, as of 1982, such earmarked
funds will be incorporated into the federal budget and administered by the
Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN).
1.14      The FGTS is based on the compulsory deposit of 8% of all wages
covered by labor legislation, designed to enable workers to build up a
savings reserve that would retain its real worth and be available in case of
unemployment, retirement, or emergency. The Fund is maintained in indexed,
individual accounts earning 3% annual interest and is available to BNH to
finance investment programs. Thus, although BNH operates programs of social
interest, with subsidized interest rates, its total operation must show an
overall rate of return of 3% on indexed principal.
D. Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
1.15      Bank involvement in the urban sector is based on the premise that
attempts to change the spatial distribution of population, economic activity,
and employment need to be complemented by well-designed programs that deal
more directly with the problems of the urban poor.  Given the scale of Brazil's
urban problems and the scarcity of funds available for investment, the Bank
has chosen to concentrate its efforts ir key sectors and to channel its re-
sources through federal intermediaries. Thus, the Bank is working with federal
institutions to introduce improved methods of analysis, an increased focus on
urban poverty, and better coordination between agencies. To reinforce these
institution-building objectives, Bank-financed urban projects in Brazil have
attempted to transfer as much as possible of the project preparation, appraisal,
and supervision responsibility to the federal agencies responsible for the
projects and to encourage the federal agencies, where appropriate, to transfer
this responsibility to local agencies. Since the federal institutions and
their poverty-oriented programs are, in general, quite new and their policies
and strategies are in the formative stage, the Bank's approach involves higher
risks than might be encountered in more traditional programs. This is compen-
sated for by the higher potential benefits and the externalities beyond
Bank-financed projects.
1.16      To date, four specifically urban projects have been financed by the
Bank in Brazil. The First Urban Transport Project was approved in June 1978,
the Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project in January 1979, the
Medium-Sized Cities Project in May 1979, and the Second Urban Transport
Project (Porto Alegre Suburban Railway) in April 1980. In addition, power
distribution, water supply and sewerage, and pollution control projects
financed by the Bank in Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo, Ceara, Pernambuco, Bahia,
Parana, Santa Catarina, Espiritu Santo, and Rio Grande do Sul bave important



- 6 -
urban components. Additional projects in the areas of integrated urban devel-
opment, sites and services, transport, power distribution, and water supply
and sewerage are under preparation for the period 1981-85. The proposed
Third Urban Transport Project would be the first urban project to build
directly on previous experience with the same executing agency (EBTU).  This
will give the Bank the opportunity to consolidate the experience already
gained, to correct problems that have arisen, and to build a solid base for
future lending operations in urban transport.
1.17      Execution of the First Urban Transport Project. 1/  Implementation
of the first project has proceeded more slowly than expected, albeit with
considerable variation among cities. Curitiba made a particularly strong
start and Porto Alegre made reasonable progress in the early stages; the
other cities fell behind, Salvador and Recife due to difficulties of managing
project execution, including final design preparation and financing arrange-
ments, and Belo Horizonte because of delays in the completion and approval of
the EBTU appraisal. With the change in Government in March 1979, the situation
changed. The new mayor in Recife took steps to accelerate project execution,
while in Curitiba delays occurred as projects were re-evaluated by incoming
planners and politicians. This was also a serious problem in Salvador. Porto
Alegre accelerated project execution. More recently, Belo Horizonte has begun
to perform acceptably. Two lessons became obvious: first, that active local
political support at the level of the executing agencies is a sine qua non for
effective project execution and, second, that projects should be more carefully
tailored to local execution capacity. These matters have been given more
attention in the proposed project. In all cities, project execution has
taken longer than planned, largely because of initial implementation schedules
that were overly optimistic.  EBTU has made considerable progress in this
area, correcting this fault with the result that current schedules are more
realistic, and project execution is moving smoothly. In the early stages,
EBTU staff were less forceful than expected in solving local problems and
bringing difficulties to the attention of decision-makers. They tended to
rely on Bank supervision missions to do this. In the last 18 months, the
situation has improved and EBTU is now supervising the subprojects reasonably
well. The technical assistance component was initially neglected as efforts
were concentrated on physical execution. This component is now receiving
adequate attention.
1.18      Execution of the Second Urban Transport Project. 1/  The Second
Urban Transport Project provides financing for a suburban railway in the
metropolitan region of Porto Alegre.  The implementation of the project is
proceeding smoothly and on schedule, both in terms of physical works and of the
establishment of the new suburban railway company. EBTU is carrying out its
supervision and coordination tasks competently.
II. URBAN TRANSPORT
A. Policy Framework
2.01      Background.  Until the creation of EBTU, urban transport investments
were almost exclusively the responsibility of state and local agencies, with
1/   For details of current status, see Annex 2.



-7-
the exceptions of suburban railways and the urban portions of interstate roads.
The 1960's produced a number of developments that had chaotic potential for
the existing transportation infrastructure, particularly in the metropolitan
areas: an increasing concentration of population in urban areas; an automobile
fleet increasing at approximately 11% per annum; and an urban road system that
was expanding at less than 1% per year.  The response in the early 1970's
consisted of large investments, particularly in metropolitan areas, directed
toward expanding available road space and mass transit projects in Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The need for a national urban transport program,
operating within a coherent policy context, was recognized at that time and
EBTU was established to bring this about.
2.02      EBTU Policy: 1976-1979. In its early years, EBTU had a source of
earmarked funds (FDTIJ) and a high degree of autonomy in applying them.
However, it had neither a clear statement of operational objectives nor the
technical staff to produce an explicit urban transport policy. It generally
reacted to local investment demands and limited its quality control to a more
ov less perfunctory review of the proposed projects. Although EBTU's techni-
cal work improved over this period, it was basically limited to engineering
design review and generally ignored the policy and program context of its
investments as well as their economic feasibility. In the mid-1970's, a
national awareness began to emerge that the country did not have the resources
to expand the urban road system at a rate sufficient to accommodate the in-
creased automobile demand. Moreover, dramatic increases in the cost of
petroleum products, starting in 1973, created balance of payments problems
and a recognition that it was imprudent to create additional infrastructure
for, and hence demand for the use of, private cars. Thus, EBTU began to
concentrate its investments on completing the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo
Metros and making low-cost improvements in existing transport infrastructure
systems favoring the increased use of public transport, particularly in the
metropolitan regions. Sixty-three transport corridors were identified,
accounting for 84% of daily person trips in the metropolitan regions; 62% of
these trips were by bus. EBTU concentrated its efforts on these corridors to
improve existing infrastructure and to increase the quantity and quality of
public transport. This orientation also carried over to investments in medium-
sized cities. Overall, even in the absence of an explicit statement of urban
transport policy, EBTU was following implicit policy guidelines of making the
best use of existing infrastructure and promoting public transport.
2.03      Current EBTU Policy.  Over the past vear, the Ministry of Transport
has strengthened its role as policy formulator and now more closely oversees
EBTU's programs to verify policy/program consistency. In the past, EBTU was
assured of a flow of resources and could allocate them with a high degree of
autonomy; it now has to submit its policies and programs to the scrutiny of
the Ministry of Transport, to ensure coordination with other Ministry programs.
In May 1980, EBTU produced, in conjunction with the Ministry of Transport, an
explicit statement of the Brazilian Government's urban transport policy, the
Politica Nacional dos Transportes Urbanos. This document sets urban transport
policy in the context of the national urban policy and establishes policy
guidelines, priorities, and investment programs.
2.04      Within the constraints established in the III PND, the national
urban transport policy has the following goals: (a) economic efficiency,



8
seeking those modes and systems that are most adequate to meet transport demand
within the available resources; and (b) equity, in which context the transport
system is viewed as a means of achieving a more equitable income distribution.
These goals are to be pursued through the following strategic objectives: more
efficient use of energy; maximum utilization of existing transport systems;
expansion of and improvements to transport systems through limited physical
expansion; emphasis on improvements to public transport systems, especially
those used by the low-income population; technological and operational innova-
tions; improved planning and management; and integration of urban transport
planning with land-use planning. The policy statement also sets out priori-
ties: first, the nine metropolitan regions; second, the remaining seventeen
state capitals; third, fourteen conurbations that include several municipali-
ties and require integrated transport planning; and fourth, eighty-six medium-
sized cities that represent potential regional development centers. The
policy statement describes the urban transport investment programs for which
financing may be made available and explains how the funding system will
operate. The development of this statement represents a major advance in the
Brazilian Government's approach to urban transport. It establishes the
policy and program context for EBTU's operations and provides a basis for
developing criteria against which EBTU's future performance may be judged.
2.05      Interaction with Energy Policy.  Given its large consumption of
petroleum products, the transport sector is viewed as having an important
role to play in support of the national energy policy, whose objectives
are focused almost exclusively on reducing demand for imported petroleum
products. The policy was formalized in late 1979 with the announcement of the
Program for Energy Mobilization (PME). In addition to raising tax levels,
this program redistributed revenues, including an allocation to the federal
treasury. This allocation is being used in three programs: Proalcool, super-
vised by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; the Program for Coal and other
Alternative Sources of Energy, supervised by the Ministry of Mines and Energy;
and the Program of Alternative Transport to Conserve Energy (PTAEC), supervised
by the Ministry of Transport. For the 1980-82 period, the urban part of PTAEC
gives emphasis to metropolitan corridors, with 59% of investments programmed
for suburban rail in six of the nine metropolitan areas, 25% for road infra-
structure, primarily exclusive bus lanes, and 16% for trolleybuses and ferry-
boats. As a short-term strategy, the PTAEC seeks to expand the supply and
operational efficiency of regular buses, small buses and collective taxis, as
well as to improve the effectiveness of traffic and parking controls. The
suburban rail investments (with the exception of the Bank-financed Porto Alegre
Project) are being made through the national railway company (RFFSA). The
remainder of the urban PTAEC federal investments are being coordinated by EBTU.
2.06      Pricing Policy.  Closely related to energy policy, but with important
implications for urban transport, is the pricing policy for petroleum products,
particularly gasoline and diesel fuels. As a response to the increases in
crude oil import prices, the Brazilian Government started a series of gasoline
price increases in 1973. In September 1973, the price to the final consumer
was Cr$0.81/liter (US$0.50/gallon); by June 1980, the price of gasoline had
increased to Cr$34.5/liter (US$2.46/gallon). This policy has succeeded in re-
ducing the use of the private automobile. Although the automobile fleet has
been increasing, the annual consumption of gasoline per gasoline-powered



- 9 -
vehicle has decreased by one-third, from 2,839 liters in 1974 to 1,906 liters
in 1979. The pricing policy for diesel fuel has been to avoid causinig problems
to public transport and the trucking industry, primarily through keeping the
tax element of diesel prices relatively low.
2.07      The other important element of urban transport pricing po:Licy con-
cerns the setting of bus fares, which are controlled by the Planning Ministry's
Special Secretariat for Supply and Prices (SEAP) through its administrative
body, the Interministerial Council for Price Control (CIP). CIP bus fare
control applies to both public and private companies, both of which generally
operate profitably. Fare proposals are submitted to CIP by bus companies
through the local concessionary agency (normally the municipality). CIP
evaluates the proposal and decides on a new fare. The fare is established
on a vehicle cost/kilometer basis, taking into account the length of the route
and the number of passengers transported. The cost/kilometer is disaggregated
into variable costs, including fuel, lubricants, tires, parts, drivesr, fare-
taker, etc. and fixed costs, including depreciation, return on capital, and
overhead. Although verification and control of unit costs are difficult, bus
companies have a guaranteed return on invested capital (currently established
at 12% on vehicles and warehouses and 5% on other installations and equipment).
In recent years, there has been no shortage of private companies willing to
operate bus services.
B. Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos (EBTU)
2.08      EBTU was created on April 12, 1976 as a non-profit public corporation.
The goals of EBTU are to: (a) promote and coordinate the elaboration and execu-
tion of transport master plans for metropolitan and urban areas; (b) generate
government ownership participation in transport enterprises -hich participate
in the national urban transport system, e.g., in bus companies; (c) manage and
disburse the Urban Transport Development Fund; (d) judge the priority and the
technical and economic feasibility of transport projects; (e) promote and
extend a national urban transport planning process which coordinates regional,
metropolitan, and local development policies with national urban transport
policies; and (f) promote and implement the development of urban transport
technology.
2.09      Internal Structure.  EBTU is made up of a President, four director-
ates, and several departments, divisions, and sections under each directorate
(see Chart No. l(a)). The Presidency comprises the-President and several
supporting offices: legal, audit, administration, social communication, special
studies and strategic planning, public relations, and evaluation. The Pre-
sident of EBTU is responsible for the operations of the corporation and is
subordinate to an Administrative Council. He is appointed by the President
of the Republic upon the nomination of the Minister of Transport. EBTU has
four directorates each in charge of a major line function of the organization:
administration, finance, operations, and technical. The directors are appointed
by the Minister of Transport. Together with the President, they make up the
Board which is involved in all major decisions affecting EBTU's marLagemert.
EBTU has a staff of just over three hundred, about 40% of which is at the
professional level. As noted below (para 2.27 et. seq.), EBTU started in 1979



- 10 -
a major exercise designed to modernize its organizational structure to make it
more responsive to the demands placed upon it by the appraisal and supervision
of integrated urban transport projects.
2.10      Programs.  EBTU invests in urban transport projects through the
following programs: (a) suburban trains; (b) metros; (c) trolleybuses;
(d) road infrastructure; (e) rationalization of public transport; (f) TOPICS
(traffic capacity and safety program); (g) passenger and freight terminals;
(h) water based transport; (i) community participation and education; (j)
studies and research; and (k) training. With the exceptions of loans for
bus fleet renewal and stock participation in the metros, EBTU channels funds
to the municipalities and metropolitan regions as grants. EBTU's role is to
invest in projects that reflect both federal urban transport policy and local
priorities, to assure that all projects are technically and economically
sound, and to supervise project implementation.
2.11      Financing.  EBTU's activities have been financed with funds from
three primary sources: FDTU; IBRD; and PME (PTAEC). During the 1976-1979
period, the FDTU received tax revenues from :  (a) 0.5% surtax on the annual
vehicle registration tax (TRU) and (b) 75% of the federal government's share
of the additional tax (generated by a 12% increase) on lubricants and liquid
and gaseous fuels (IULCLG).  In February, 1979, the National Petroleum Council
reduced the exemption from the IULCLG for large consumers of diesel fuel from
100% to 50%, with the difference earmarked for EBTU. Another adjustment in
funds earmarked for EBTU resulted from a substantial increase, in August 1979,
in the TRU and destined 12% of the total tax to EBTU through the FDTU. In
addition to these earmarked funds, EBTU has had external support from the
World Bank's First and Second Urban Transport Projects. The Ministry of
Transport channeled about 30% of the PTAEC funds through EBTU. For 1980,
EBTU's budget was Cr$16.2 billion (US$24.8 million), with earmarked tax
revenues accounting for 60%, IBRD for 15%, and PTAEC for 25%.
C. Investment Programing
2.12      Allocation Criteria.  A relatively high degree of financial and
political autonomy and a lack of experienced staff meant that, until recently,
EBTU's investment allocation criteria were a mixture of political and technical
considerations, with the former dominating.  Technical considerations were
generally limited to verification of final design specifications. By mid-1979,
however, EBTU had developed an internal set of allocation criteria which
included:
(a) program area (see para 2.10);
(b) distribution of urban population among major geographic
regions (North, Northeast, Southest, South and Center-West),
assuming proportionality between investment and population; and
(c)  distribution of urban population according to urban structure
(with the same assumption of proportionality as that used in
the regional distribution), including (i) metropolitan regions,
(ii) conurbations, (iii) state capitals, and (iv) medium-
sized cities.



- 11 -
2.13      By the second semester of 1979, EBTU had developed a preliminary
1980 budget, with resources allocated according to the above criteria. This
budget was submitted to and discussed with the Ministry of Transport and
reviewed by SEPLAN. In EBTU's system, this budget represents a preliminary
allocation of resources that is conditional upon demonstration by cities that
the proposed projects are technically and economically feasible. During this
same period, EBTU developed a flow-chart for the analysis of proposals that
would guide each proposal through technical, economic, financial, and insti-
tutional evaluations and provide a basis for decisions on whether the projects
would be definitively accepted. In this first year of application, the
technically-oriented flow-chart was applied in a very limited way, with final
decisions being made during negotiations among EBTU, the cities, and the
Ministry of Transport. The final decisions took account of policy guidelines
including: completing unfinished projects; channeling resources to ciperational
problem areas; meeting the needs of the urban poor; reducing fuel consumption,
and developing local technical and financial capacity.
Classification of Investments
2.14      By Program.  Table 2.1 presents EBTU's programmed investments for the
1977-79 and 1980-83 periods.
Table 2.1: PROGRAMMED EBTU INVESTMENT BY PROGRAM AREA
(Constant 1981 Cruzeiros)
1977-79                     1980-83
PROGRAM AREA               (Cr$1,000)        %         (Cr$1,000)
Suburban Train               4,480          8.0          18,730       15.0
Metros                      22,310         39.7          24,720       19.8
Trolleybuses                 1,189          2.1          10,807        8.7
Road Infrastructure         16,309         29.1          33,511       26.9
Rationalization of
Public Transport           3,215          5.7           4,356        3.5
TOPICS                       2,146          3.8          10,689        8.6
Terminals                    1,140          2.0           5,341        4.3
Other                        5,352          9.5          16,585       13.3
TOTAL                       56,141        100.0         124,739      100.0
Source:  Ministry of Transport, "Relatorio do Grupo de Trabalho dos
Transportes Urbanos", 1980, p. 40.
The greatest relative gains between periods are in suburban trains, trolley-
buses, and TOPICS, primarily due to the influence of the PME, which is
responsible for increasing the yearly average investment from Cr$18.7 billion
in the 1977-79 period, to Cr$31.2 billion for 1980-83. The only program
to have a significant relative loss is Metro, indicating that while EBTU
intends to help complete the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo systems, it is
shifting its priorities to other programs.



- 12 -
2.15      By Capital Intensity.  The results of classifying the above programs
in terms of capital intensity 1/, are shown in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: CAPITAL INTENSITY OF EBTU INVESTMENTS
Capital Intensity          % of 1977-79 funding         % of 1980-83 funding
High                        47.7                          34.8
Medium                       33.2                         39.9
Low                           9.5                         12.1
Not classified                9.5                         13.3
It is clear that, even with the increase in funding for suburban railways,
EBTU has made a significant shift away from high capital intensity projects.
2.16      By Region and City Size.  The 1976-79 investment program in
relation to 1970 census data on urban population shows the following
regional distribution: Cr$435 per capita 2/ in the North; Cr$337 in the
Northeast; Cr$341 in the Southeast; Cr$389 in the South. These data indi-
cate that the regional impact of EBTU's programs was essentially neutral,
with funds flowing to the metropolitan regions of each region approxi-
mately in proportion to each region's metropolitan population. As for
non-metropolitan investments, these were concentrated in cities with more
than 50,000 inhabitants, at an average of Cr$375 per capita. EBTU's past
programming indicates a balanced pattern in terms of regional and city
size distribution. The data may be interpreted as emphasizing medium-sized
cities (which have received the same level of resources as metropolitan
regions for what are generally less serious transport problems). Moreover,
discounting EBTU's participation in the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo
metros, the allocation of resources to these cities is considerably less
than the national average, reflecting the government's policy of attempting
to contain growth in these areas.
2.17      A similar pattern is discernible in the EBTU program for 1980-83,
but with an interesting variation. The Northeast region will receive slightly
more than the national average (in terms of EBTU investments per capita), and
the North and Southeast regions less than average. If the metro investments
are discounted from the Southeastern region, the figure for that region falls
to half the national average. On the other hand, pe.r capita investments in
the South region consistently exceed the national average. This is partly
1/   Suburban trains, metros--high; road infrastructure, trolleybuses, and
terminals--medium; and rationalization of public transport and
TOPICS--low.
2/   While the metropolitan regions may have grown at different rates since
1970, the distribution of population has remained sufficiently stable
for these figures to allow reasonable inferences to be drawn regarding
resource allocation.



- 13
the result of the time phasing of large PIZ.~  i'-inve sta  n n,  tut alIso indi-
cates that EBTU has learned from experience that _he f--Og-'.' -f   has to balance
need with executive capacity.
2.18      Evaluation.  EBTU has demonstrated increas`ng e   l§-eeess in
policy/program consistency.  In the early years, - u  sn-,Tese -int program was
dominated by the Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paldo metr.o   buc tbeee i-estments
were already underway when EBTU was created a.d .7ere co-'rer irreversible.
Completion of the metros is now allowing i, tc  1n- tighly capital-
intensive projects, releasing more funds for transpoo pc itt investments
which can be spread out across regions among cit                erent sizes.  The
EBTU program   is not excessively capital-Lncersve ho- tt  arb-an transport
sector and may be expected in the fuLure to         o: )ce nnng regions
and city-sizes.  Overall, the reduced c vest.e   in -   utreas  and the
emphasis on medium-sized cities indicae tl  -Es.=;;         a rs    ,orcgramming is
consistent with Brazil's urban development sL` -al ta'ge   trLe need to
respond to the energy crisis is causing EBTU t, begi',   ccnce-atrase more in
the metropolitan regions, where most fuel is C i O                      is in the
difficult position of having to balance the Eca,-i ti n,eg goals of the
national urban and energy policies.  'That iL 'S achlievin-g a  easonable balance
is an indication of increasing maturity irn investmewnt decision1-iakinc.
D. Program Implementation
2.19      Given the judgement that EBTU is canable c-f esa  - Srning well-
conceived urban transport investment programs, it is appco-riaLe t( consider
the efficiency with which these programs are execute- _.           t- usuallv measures
performance in terms of resources disburse;i to ci>.ies  -hict^epresent in
turn resources expended by cities).  In thess terms, EBTU;  performance
has been improving.  In 1977, EBTU only disbu-sed 311% -4se -cesources pro-
grammed for that year. In contrast, by the end o' ;979, al DU- i9% of the
resources programmed for the whole 1977-79 Period  had b e-n  cd-isb'.:sed. How-
ever, this indicator does not adequately reflect the e-ficiency with which
specific technical and managerial functions are carried outs  The remainder of
this section examines EBTU's performance irt these a^eas.
2.20      Project Appraisal.  EBTU's appraisal of prolec~:., nusu de programs
financed by the Bank, has generally beern limited  to the urban development and
urban transport context of each project and its engineeting aspects. The
first serious attempt at project appraisal by EBTU Uns the aj?-,-e`s,al of the
Porto Alegre subproject of the First  Urban Trans?ort Project in early 1978.
EBTU appraised a wide variety of urban transport schemes anen &emonstrated
reasonably good judgement in the area of engineeringr desig-n, resulting in the
revision of certain  designs to achieve cost zeduct-icns,  171owever, economic
analysis was not used to aid in the se'ection of the mcst a1rpropriate design.
Another relative weakness in the appraisa` .was the lack .of as15 on the
distribution of benefits, especially to the u-ban pwr- o       T-i   btoth cost
estimates and implementation schedules tended to be                   Y.lhe second
appraisal was for the Belo Horizonte s-bppro-/ect of rhe Fiorst "rban Transport
Project in 1979.  This effort was less effective than tue PorFo Alegre exercise.
In addition to the problems noted above, FBTU failed tO ioesticn the basic



- 14 -
assumptions of the local planning agency, specifically in terms of design
considerations. Moreover, EBTU technical staff were neither strong enough
professionally nor empowered with sufficient authority by EBTU's management
to impose changes in analysis and design. Another EBTU team worked on the
appraisals of the transport components for the Medium-Sized Cities Project
(Loan #1720-BR). EBTU appraised transport components in four cities, helped
produce guidelines and criteria, and produced good reports in a standardized
format that they helped to develop. Their success, in contrast to the appraisal
of Belo Horizonte, was due partly to the relatively simple issues to be dealt
with and partly to their increased power relative to a smaller city. Nonethe-
less, EBTU demonstrated that it is capable of absorbing the procedures and
techniques required for sound project appraisal.
2.21      The experience obtained by EBTU resulted in the production, in
mid-1979, of "Guidelines for EBTU Investments." This document was reviewed
with Bank staff. At the same time, EBTU was preparing a series of documents
on specific programs. Overall, the context for achieving better quality
technical work was improving: first, the Minister made it clear that EBTU is
a technical, rather than a political, agency; second the EBTU Board adopted a
draft flow-chart that indicated the technical review steps for projects
proposed for financing; and third, various groups were put to work within EBTU
on designing new procedures, guidelines, and standards.
2.22      It was against this background that a team was established to
appraise the first three cities to be included in the proposed Third Urban
Transport Project. It was intended that this team would test many of the
methodologies that were being worked on and would use its experience to
produce the appraisal section of an EBTU Project Manual. The matrix team,
made up of staff from all four EBTU directorates assisted by consultants,
appraised the proposed projects for Sao Luis de Maranhao, the Baixada Santista,
and the satellite cities of the Distrito Federal. The team carried out the
required technical analyses and negotiated the project content with the local
authorities. During the appraisal of the proposed project, Bank staff examined
the documents prepared by EBTU and the supporting documents presented by the
cities.  Each city was also visited so that field checks could be made.  The
proposed subproject components and their analysis were discussed with EBTU
staff and local officials.  The mission concluded that the overall results of
the EBTU appraisal were satisfactory.  The strong points were as follows:
(a) the management of the team was good;  (b) the projects selected were set
in a coherent urban and urban transport planning context; (c) the team had
not accepted any bad projects, nor had it rejected any good ones; (d) the
quality of the institutional analysis exceeded previous EBTU efforts by a large
margin; and (e) the financial analysis of the cities was good. The following
weak points emerged: (a) the economic analysis was inadequate, in terms of
both traffic forecasting and benefit estimation and the use made of economic
results; (b) engineering evaluations tended to concentrate on "accept/reject"
decisions to the neglect of the fine-tuning of project proposals; and (c) the
evaluation of traffic projects underemphasized operational considerations.
These problems can be resolved with clearer instructions and training. The
next step was the consolidation of the experience of the team in a Project
Manual, establishing, inter alia, the methodologies to be used and the outputs
to be produced during appraisals. This manual constitutes the vehicle for



- 15 -
transferring the experience developed under the First Urban Transport Project
to a wider range of EBTU operations. The manual (see paras. 5.06-7) would be
introduced in conjunction with a training program to improve EBTU's c:apacity
in weak areas.
2.23      Project Supervision.  EBTU has historically paid more attention
to the disbursement and application of funds than to physical works. Thus,
monthly reports are available on the release of funds to the cities and on
their application by the cities, whereas supervision of works and cost
control is fragmented among the technical, operations, and financial
directorates and is poorly documented. EBTU believes that, as a financial
agency, it should not be directly responsible for checking the quality of
works. It has not yet, however, developed completely satisfactory procedures
for delegating that responsibility to executing agencies and consultants in
such a way that EBTU can receive reliable information on project execution.
The result is that current procedures do not always permit EBTU to determine
whether its funds are being spent effectively.
2.24      In the early stages of supervision of the First Urban Transport
Project, EBTU had not developed a systematic approach to project supervision.
This resulted in a lack of updated implementation schedules, project super-
vision plans, budgetary provision for supervision, and a formalized reporting
system. Reports were not written on the conclusions of EBTU's supervision
missions and, consequently, there was only casual follow-up on actions recom-
mended by the missions. Quarterly progress reports were prepared only for
Bank-financed projects and used only in a limited fashion by project manage-
ment in EBTU and the cities. The preparation of these reports absorbed much
of the time of the EBTU staff assigned to supervision and yet the reporting
system did not provide satisfactory information on the status, cost, or
quality of the works. As the project developed, EBTU began to require the
cities to produce information on project execution and on future implementation
plans. The basic data were frequently found to be of poor quality and provided
an inadequate basis for supervision. Under the Recife Subproject, consultants
were hired to provide physical and financial control of works, to collect
information from the executing agencies, and to provide regular reports. This
procedure was highly successful and EBTU is in the process of extending this
system to all its operations. Recent missions have found the informnation base
for supervision to have considerably improved. Moreover, as a resu[Lt of
contact with Bank supervision missions, EBTU has begun to examine more critic-
ally the revised implementation schedules proposed by the cities and1 now
produces its own revisions to the cities' proposals. Currently, EBTU is
working on a system for updating project cost estimates taking account of
Brazil's indexing system and rate of inflation. When this system has been
developed and put into operation, EBTU's supervision of the First Urban
Transport Project will have reached a satisfactory level.
2.25      The next step will be to apply the improvements developed during
supervision of the First Urban Transport Project to other EBTU operations.
To achieve this, EBTU staff has developed supervision guidelines that will
form part of the Project Manual (see para. 5.10). These guidelines specific-
ally address the questions of design review, procurement, and inspection of
works, contract supervision, compliance with approved designs, revisions of
cost estimates and implementation schedules, and monitoring and evaluation
(see para. 5.10).



- 16 -
2.26      EBTU's Operations.  Two shortcomings associated with EBTU's organiza-
tion and management have been detected. The first concerns the fragmentation
of functions between the Operations Directorate and the Technical Directorate,
especially with respect to technical review and supervision tasks. Since the
same people do not approve final designs and supervise works, frequent misunder-
standings and conflicts are created as the different groups deal with the
cities. Significant improvements in efficiency and/or in the avoidance of
conflict are unlikely to occur without a more fundamental change in the
structure of the organization to permit a smoother, more efficient workflow
and to increase feedback among the different tasks. The second point is that,
for a variety of historical reasons, managerial authority in EBTU is concen-
trated in the President. Thus, middle- and lower-level managers are given
limited responsibility, do not control the necessary inputs, and, consequently,
cannot be held accountable for their performance. This problem is compounded
by the fragmented workflow, as a result of which one manager's output may be
dependent on the performance of another. The result is reduced efficiency and
morale. The President of EBTU is aware of these problems and the need to
correct them.
2.27      EBTU and the Ministry of Transport have, within the last 6-12
months, undertaken a series of actions aimed at improving EBTU's operation.
First, within EBTU, the President set out to improve the efficiency of EBTU
and to assert a tighter control on the organization through a series of work
groups on EBTU procedures and an explicit project review system. Second,
EBTU's operations were reformulated around the programs described in para.
2.10. This was based on observations that those activities that had tradi-
tionally been controlled within a small unit, such as trolleybuses, had
operated more effectively than those subject to more fragmented control.
Third, the position of Administrative Adviser to the Board was established to
create an executive secretariat through which work groups or task forces could
be constituted to study and develop proposals or suggestions made by members
of the Board. Fourth, EBTU and the Ministry modified their contractual
agreements so that all urban transport projects were contained in a single
agreement for each large city or state. This enabled projects from previous
years to be incorporated or eliminated, thus preventing cities from accumul-
ating projects that they were incapable of executing. The new-style agreements
also contain explicit responsibilities for measures required to ensure project
operation or compliance with the new national urban transport policy. In many
respects, these agreements are similar to the subproject agreements signed
with the cities under the First Urban Transport Project. Fifth, to obtain
information on and to control project execution, the President of EBTU estab-
lished matrix supervision teams, with a member from each directorate as well
as the local area, to coordinate EBTU's supervision. Sixth, the matrix team
approach was applied to project appraisal (see para 2.22).
2.28      It can be deduced from these activities that EBTU has taken serious
steps to improve its operations.   However, during this process, the President
recognized (a) that the duplication of existing systems to provide him with
information was contrary to the institutional goals of decentralizing authority
and responsibility and (b) that the program concept could not co-exist with
the matrix team concept within the existing organizational structure of EBTU.
This conclusion led the President of EBTU to hire two consultants to devise a



- 17 -
more appropriate structure and improved operating procedures for EBTIU. The
results of this exercise constitute the basis for the institutional changes
included in the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
3.01      Given the size of operation required for a meaningful urban program
in Brazil 1/ and the relative strengths of Brazilian Government agencies, it
is appropriate to transfer as many as possible of the routine project appraisal
and supervision tasks to qualified Brazilian agencies, Detailed analysis
revealed, however, that EBTU did not have in place and in operation all the
systems and procedures that would normally be necessary to justify a full-scale
sector loan. However, EBTU has progressed beyond the point at which detailed
and continuous Bank involvement through a conventional project approach is
required. To reflect this situation, the proposed project has been explicitly
structured as a hybrid between a sector loan and a project loan. On the one
hand, EBTU will have the primary responsibility for appraising the majority
of the elements of the project and for supervising all of them. On the other
hand, the Bank will take an active role in reviewing and approving EBTU's
appraisal reports and subproject agreements and in monitoring EBTU's perfor-
mance on supervision. In this way, the project will take advantage of EBTU's
expertise and experience where it is most developed and work with EBTU to
strengthen the weaker parts of its operation.
3.02      The proposed project has two objectives.  First, it would bring
about improvements in urban transport infrastructure and services. Second,
it would bring about improvements in the operating efficiency of EBTU. These
objectives would be met by carrying out three subprojects. The AGLURB
group of subprojects consists of measures to improve transport infrastructure
and operations in ten medium-sized cities, especially conurbations. 2/ The
emphasis is on low-cost improvements that favor public transport operations,
especially services used by the urban poor. In the case of conurbations,
special attention is given to previously neglected links between the cities.
A secondary feature is the inclusion of project elements designed to improve
the local planning and operation of transport infrastructure and services.
Conurbations are emphasized because both the problems and potential benefits
1/   Brazil has nine metropolitan regions plus the Distrito Federal with a
million or more inhabitants and over one hundred other cities -and
conurbations with more than 200,000 inhabitants. Bank involvemnent
in the sector would be very limited if a detailed Bank appraisal
were required for every city included in a loan.
2/   Each city is referred to as a Subproject, e.g., the Sao Luis Subproject.
The eleven subprojects are collectively referred to as the AGLURB
Subprojects. The name AGLURB comes from the Brazilian acronym for
aglomerado urbano (conurbation). A conurbation is a group of independent
political/administrative jurisdictions that function as one from an urban
transport point of view.



- 18 -
of coordinated planning and operation in multi-jurisdictional urban areas are
greater. The second subproject would be a new EBTU program (Programa de
Pavimentacao de Baixo Custo em Areas de Baixa Renda; PROPAV). The program
is aimed at paving bus routes in poor areas, emphasizing the use of minimal
design standards and low-cost local materials. The subproject would integrate
existing Brazilian experience and studies through the application of a new
manual for the program. The manual (see para. 5.11) and different paving
types would be tested under field conditions, the results evaluated and the
procedures revised. The objective is to produce a simple, semi-automatic
program with clear guidelines and criteria that can be run efficiently by a
small staff. The third subproject (the institutional subproject) is aimed at
(a) modifying EBTU's organization and procedures to increase efficiency and
(b) improving EBTU's management by decentralizing and clarifying management
decision-making responsibility and increasing accountability. Implementation
of these measures would reduce organizational and managerial constraints and
permit the consistent application of acceptable appraisal and supervision
procedures. To increase the probability of achieving this objective, institu-
tional change has been established as an integral part of the project in
parallel with the physical components. The subproject includes technical
assistance and training to support the organizational and operational measures
to be introduced.
3.03      The three subprojects are highly complementary.  The physical
subprojects would produce important benefits, especially for poor public
transport users, but they would also serve as a test-bed for monitoring and
evaluating the institutional subproject. The AGLURB subprojects would test
EBTU's appraisal and supervision capacity. The PROPAV subproject would enable
EBTU to demonstrate the efficiency of program operations and would serve as a
prototype for the streamlining of other EBTU operations. The institutional
subproject would provide structural, organizational, and procedural improvements
that will facilitate the efficient execution of the physical subprojects. The
project design emphasizes the relationships between subprojects and increases the
probability that each subproject would be successfully executed. In particular,
it reduces the risk that the necessary institutional measures could be relegated
to the status of complementary measures, receiving less attention than they merit.
B. The AGLURB Subprojects
3.04      The objective of these subprojects is to improve transport infra-
structure, emphasizing low-cost investments that favor public transport,
especially serving the urban poor. The subprojects are aimed specifically at
the state capitals and conurbations that constitute EBTU's second and third
level of priority (see para. 2.04), in contrast to the metropolitan regions
(EBTU's first priority) that were the focus of the First and Second Urban
Transport Projects. The new approach was specifically chosen because it
constitutes a level of difficulty in urban transport project planning and
execution that is commensurate with EBTU's level of development and is,
therefore, consistent with the increased delegation of appraisal and super-
vision responsibility. The choice of the smaller state capitals and conur-
bations limits the type of investments that EBTU will have to analyze and
execute. On the other hand, the inclusion of conurbations will enable EBTU



- 19 -
to deal with the problems of transport systems that cross legal and administra-
tive booundaries, requiring inter-city as well as intra-city movements to be
Ainaito account.  The subprojects exemplify the position of urban transport
projects on a spectrum ranging from projects that aim mainly at increasing the
efficiency of the urban system to those which principally promote equity through
channeling benefits to the urban poor. The AGLURB subprojects contain some
components, such as new road links, that are concentrated almost exclusively
on efficiency goals and others, such as bus line paving in poor areas, that
aim at providing benefits to the urban poverty group. Still others, such as
traffic signal systems with bus priorities, meet both goals.
Main Features of the Subproject
JJiS       Financing will be provided for subprojects in ten cities:  the
cntel ite cities of the Distrito Federal (Brasilia), the Baixada Santista
Sao Luis do Maranhao, Maceio, Goiania, Cuiaba, Florianopolis, Natal
(see Klap TIRD 15235)) and two other cities to be nominated by EBTU. The
cities already selected are, with the exception of the Distrito Federal and
he Bixada Santista, state capitals.  Three are located in the Northeast
region, three in the Center-West, one in the Southeast, and one in the South.
Althnough all may be considered medium-sized cities, these cities represent a
variety of urban types and sizes: Goiania (458,900) l/ and the Distrito
Federal (516,000) are considered incipient metropolitan regions; the Baixada
Santista (606,800) is a sub-metropolitan conurbation; Sao Luis (220,100),
Florianopolis (165,600), and Natal (267,300) are conurbations; Maceio (251,700)
ano Cuiaba (88,400) are cities without conurbation features. This group of 8
i -'TrS chosen in accordance with the national urban development strategy,
which seeks to stimulate the development of medium-sized urban areas which
shotld serve as alternatives to the already saturated metropolitan regions.
All are viewed as having high growth and development potential and improved
transport systems are regarded as prerequisite to attaining this potential.
Ft was agreed at negotiations that EBTU will provide the Bank with the names
of two additional cities that are acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1981.
Giving EBTU the responsibility for selecting the remaining cities meaLns that
EBTTU will be able to make its assessment of project development and execution
capacity, political commitment, and financial capacity on the basis of more
timely information.  It is also consistent with the institution-building
ob4 ectives of the project.
3M         The approach to subproject appraisal and supervision that has been
ado;-ted complements and reinforces the institutional component. The satellite
c-.ties of the Distrito Federal, the Baixada Santista, and Sao Luis do Maranhao
were appraised by an EBTU team. Bank appraisal consisted of a re-appraisal
of the proposals based on the EBTU appraisals and on site visits. This enabled
the mission to verify the soundness of the investments recommended by EBTU
and to assess in detail EBTU's performance. The remaining cities will be
appraised by EBTU. Project execution in all ten cities will be supervised by
EBTUJ In the cases of both appraisal and supervision, Bank staff will monitor
E'TU's performance. (For details of subproject implementation, see paras 5.11-
5, 16.)
L/   PoDulation according to 1970 Census (see para 1.01, footnote 2/).



- 20 -
3.07      Characteristics of the Three Cities Appraised by the Bank. 1/  The
first three cities appraised are different from each other in many respects.
The Distrito Federal is the nation's capital located in the Center-West region,
dominated by the Federal Government and an important factor in the growth of
the region (see Map IBRD 15236). The Baixada Santista contains a major,
national port and is part of the Southeast region's industrial complex,
providing several complementary economic functions to the metropolitan region
of Sao Paulo (see Map IBRD 15237). Sao Luis is one of Brazil's oldest cities
with a rich history, but today is one of the poorest cities of the Northeast
region (see Map IBRD 15238). Despite their diversity, these cities share
common problems. Among them are high urban population growth rates, with
difficulties in generating sufficient employment to absorb expanding work
forces. The urban poor in the three cities tend to be concentrated in fringe
areas with inadequate public transport. This is a critical problem for people
dependent on public transport for access to jobs (especially service sector
jobs requiring low skills) which tend to be concentrated in central areas.
The long journey-to-work trips by the fringe-area populations of these cities
create financial burdens on the poor population. Although these cities are
not large, they share the transport problems of central area congestion in
peak hours and fragmented transport networks that provide inefficient road use
and create frequent bottlenecks.
3.08      These cities also face the common challenge of overcoming the
difficulties of implementing projects which have a range of influence beyond
traditional administrative boundaries. Thus, they must develop institutional
mechanisms to provide the necessary coordination. The institutional problems
faced by the cities are not limited to problems of conurbation. They have
limited financial resources and are relatively weak in terms of their capacity
to program and execute transport projects in an urban area.
3.09      Types of Investments Included.  Three basic categories of urban
transport intervention are proposed. First, to alleviate traffic congestion,
the subprojects include low-cost traffic management measures aimed at maxi-
mizing the effective capacity and safety of the existing road network, improv-
ing vehicle operating conditions, and thus reducing journey times, operating
costs, fuel consumption, and pollution. These measures include providing
continuous road cross-sections, channelization of traffic, turn prohibitions,
intersection improvements, and improved signals, signing, and marking. Second,
emphasis has been placed on measures to improve bus services through priority
for public transport (bus-only streets, bus lanes, etc.), new bus terminals,
paving of existing and future bus routes to improve bus services in poor
areas, and bus shelters, foot bridges, and street lighting to provide more
comfort and security to bus users. Third, in some cases, the road network
will be improved by widening existing roads or building new ones to serve
developing areas or insert missing links in the network. Such subproject
components are important in conurbations, where jurisdictional problems
frequently lead to the neglect of inter-city links. The specific subproject
components for the three cities appraised by the Bank are detailed in Annex 1.
1/   Additional information is presented in Annex 1.



- 2 1 -
3.10      These types of investment, aLthough they lead to very different
projects in different cities, follow a set of basic principles. Within the
context of the usual project selection criteria of technical and economic
feasibility and consistency with regional and urban development strategies,
(a) priority should be given to traffic management and traffic engineering
measures to increase the effective capacity of the existing road network
and the operating efficiency of the existing bus fleet, (b) new road
construction should only be considered when specific links are missing in
the network or when space is required for special facilities such as bus
lanes, and (c) priority should be given to measures that will improve public
transport services, especially those used by people from poor areas. These
principles were followed in the development and appraisal of the projects in
the first three cities and will be followed in the remaining seven.
3.11      To address deficiencies in the executing capacity of Brazilian
cities, the subprojects will also include elements, basically technical
assistance and training, to strengthen local planning and executing capacity,
to establish specific project management units as foci for these efforts, to
ensure adequate monitoring and evaluation, and to improve the skills; of other
participants in the urban transport system such as bus drivers and inspectors.
3.12      Design Considerations.  One of the important considerations that
influenced the design process was cost effectiveness. Subproject components
were scrutinized to ensure that unnecessary elements and excessively elaborate
design features had been eliminated. An expensive tunnel in the Baixada
Santista was eliminated for lack of technical/economic justificatioln; exces-
sive street lighting in the Distrito Federal was eliminated; drainage systems
were designed to be as simple as was compatible with their operation in
the context of existing systems; paving designs in Sao Luis were judged
excellent because of their use of low-cost local materials. Overall, care was
taken to ensure that projects are cost effective.
3.13      Another important consideration was the distribution of b(enefits.
The objectives of the AGLURB subprojects include undertaking investments that
benefit the urban poor.  In practice, this means concentrating on components
that will provide benefits to public transport users. Since most (approximately
80%) users of public transport are poor, improving public transport normally
provides benefits to the poor. In addition, the subprojects include some
paving of bus routes in poor areas: these components focus even more directly
on the urban poverty target group. In addition, facilities for people travel-
ling on foot and by bicycle would be provided where appropriate. This both
reduces the demand for motorized traffic and provides benefits to low-income
travellers--the most common users of these modes.
3.14      Since land acquisition is often difficult in Brazil, the AGLURB
subprojects have been designed to avoid land acquisition as much as possible,
largely by restricting projects to existing rights-of-way. This approach
complements the objectives of making the best use of existing facilities and
avoiding elaborate designs.
3.15      Finally, projects were scrutinized to ensure that they would not
have adverse effects on the environment. Most urban transport project compo-
nents, by providing a smoother flow of traffic, have positive impacts on air
and noise pollution. In addition, components such as pedestrian streets,
footbridges, and paving in poor areas considerably increase local amenities.
The projects included will have a positive or neutral impact on the environment;
no negative impacts are foreseen.



- 22 -
3.16      Maintenance.  The focus of the project on making the best use of
existing facilities means that the project will have a positive effect on
maintenance requirements. Traffic engineering components such as intersection
improvements and bus-only lanes will not affect maintenance needs. Repaving
with road base and drainage improvements will diminish maintenance require-
ments, as will components such as paving unpaved bus routes and upgrading
terminals. Only new road construction will increase maintenance needs and
this has been kept to a minimum. EBTU's appraisals of the three AGLURB
cities examined the financial and executive capacity of the cities to meet
maintenance requirements. For the Distrito Federal and the Baixada Santista,
the appraisals revealed that institutional structures, personnel, and equip-
ment were adequate and that maintenance costs for subproject facilities would
amount to less than 0.5% of available resources. In Sao Luis, it was dis-
covered that neither the financial nor the technical capacity existed. Thus,
the subproject includes reorganization of the maintenance unit, training for
its staff, and equipment. It has also been agreed that the Sao Luis sub-
project contractual agreement will include the maintenance budget as a respon-
sibility of the State. Finally, given the potential maintenance problems,
the economic analysis in Sao Luis used an economic life of only five years:
even if the road falls into total disrepair after five years (and has to be
rebuilt) the project is still economically justified.  Despite the steps taken
to avoid maintenance problems, such as tailoring projects to local capacity
and using low-maintenance designs, it is clear that potential maintenance
problems cannot be solved through investment programs. Thus, the project
includes a study of maintenance needs, techniques, designs, organization, and
financing (see para 3.36-7). This study should lead to a national maintenance
policy and a more permanent solution to the problem.
C. The PROPAV Subproject
3.17      It is a common feature of Brazilian cities that road networks in
low-income areas are largely unpaved. Since most motorized trips from such
areas are made by bus, the effects of these network conditions are serious.
Bus service penetration into the areas is limited either by geometric
constraints (such as gradients and radii) or surface condition (such as holes
and soft spots). In particular, many roads are impassable in wet weather.
Poor drainage results in erosion of roads and verges and bus penetration is
further restricted. The result is poor service and high bus operating costs,
since the operation of buses on poor quality unpaved roads results in much
higher than normal operating and vehicle maintenance costs. The absence of
paved routes in low income areas also results in limited access for emergency
and service vehicle access. The problem is extensive. A conservative estimate
is that at least 3,000 km of bus routes are unpaved in Brazil's metropolitan
regions and medium-sized cities--a 1979 survey of greater Sao Paulo alone
identified 800 km.
3.18      An extensive program of paving in low-income areas was included in
the First Brazil Urban Transport Project (Loan 1563-BR), amounting to over
15% of the estimated project costs. Under this project, there was an initial
tendency for the designing/executing agencies to produce excessively elaborate
designs, particularly for drainage facilities and basic pavement structure.



- 23 -
Higher than estimated costs and delays in project execution resulted. These
design problems have now been generally corrected and the program is operating
successfully. Simultaneously, a comprehensive study of low-cost paving was
carried out by the Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos in Sao Paulo
(EMTU-SP). The results are embodied in a low-cost paving manual and an
economic feasibility study. In parallel, EBTU commissioned a study of regional
experiences in low-cost paving with the Federal University of Paraiba.
3.19      This experience and research led EBTU to conclude that the benefits
to be derived from an extensive bus-route paving program in low-income urban
areas would be substantial. 1/ EBTU established an inter-directorate working
group, under the leadership of an advisor to the President, to develop the
program. To avoid design standard and appraisal methodology problems, the
group established guidelines for the selection of roads to be included in a
paving program: (a) roads should be in low income areas (70% of family incomes
of less than three minimum salaries); (b) roads should be existing bus routes
or allow bus routes to be extended; (c) the paving adopted should be the most
economic to construct and to maintain in the local context; and (d) in general,
roads should not exceed 7 m in width. Specific procedures for road selection
and for design and contracting procedures have been established in the PROPAV
manual.  This sets out:  (a) criteria and procedures for the selection of
routes to be included in a paving program; (b) procedures to ensure that
designs (geometric, pavement structure, drainage provision, use of materials,
etc.) are economical and adequate for various levels of traffic flow under
different soil conditions; and (c) specification and contract document pro-
cedures. The design approach embodied within the manual has been to minimize
costs while maintaining adequate design standards. In addition, the economic
feasibility study carried out by EMTU-SP establishes a methodology for such
evaluations.
3.20      Physically, the PROPAV subproject would comprise the paving of
approximately 500 km of bus routes in low-income areas in the three-year
period from mid-1981 to 1984 at an estimated cost of US$63 million (excluding
price contingencies). The subproject also provides for an annual review and
evaluation of the program, with appropriate periodic revisions to both the
procedures and the manual. The subproject cost estimates include US$0.9
million for the review and revision tasks.
3.21      EBTU will be responsible for selecting the roads to be paved under
the subproject using the procedures set out in the PROPAV manual and for
supervising the execution of the paving. (For details of the implementation
arrangements for this subproject, see paras 5.11-5.13). EBTU will also
establish maintenance procedures for the roads paved under the project. This
will be done in close collaboration with the EBTU study of urban transport
infrastructure maintenance that will be financed under the proposed project
(see para. 3.36).
1/   The economic feasibility study carried out by the EMTU-SP for 800 km of
paving gave an average internal rate of return of over 37%.



- 24 -
3.22      The development of the program involves the iterative interaction
between the development of the EBTU PROPAV Manual and the execution of
paving projects to ensure maximum feedback from each activity to the other.
EBTU has considerable experience in this area and can count on other relevant
Brazilian experience. Thus, it is reasonable to expect that EBTU will be able
to develop this component and execute it successfully. In comparison with the
potential risks, the potential benefits are great. The component will directly
benefit large numbers of the urban poor. It will also constitute an important
test of EBTU's capacity to operate an efficient program based on clear guide-
lines and criteria. This is extremely important from the point of view of
EBTU's development as an institution, since it provides a real test of EBTU's
capacity to undertake a program operation, the successful execution of which
would constitute a prerequisite to a future full-scale sector loan.
D. The Institutional Subproject
3.23      The institutional subproject aims to improve the quality and effi-
ciency of EBTU's operations (most importantly programming, appraisal, and
supervision) through changes in EBTU's structure and procedures and through
technical assistance and staff training. The subproject is based on a
detailed examination of the tasks that EBTU should perform relative to any
project proposed for financing and includes changes that would create an
organizational structure that would facilitate the efficient execution of
EBTU's project investment responsibilities. An equally important part of the
subproject is a set of more streamlined operating procedures, together with
the reevaluation, reassignment, and retraining of EBTU's staff. Only if all
these changes are executed effectively will EBTU achieve its full potential.
Establishment of institutional change as a subproject makes it possible to
conceive of it as a physical event, broken down into tasks, each with a
definition, timetable for execution, and indicators of success. This approach
will enable EBTU and Bank staff to monitor the institutional change and to
evaluate its effectiveness. (For implementation details, see paras. 5.02-5.04.)
The Reorganization Component
3.24      This component consists of three elements:  reorganization of the
technical and operations directorates, strengthening and reorientation of the
Presidential Advisory Unit, and creation of a Program Coordination Unit. The
objective of the reorganization is to create a structure that will facilitate
more efficient EBTU operations through the use of program 1/ divisions while,
ensuring the inter-program coordination and integration that is essential to
urban transport planning and programming. The component also seeks to avoid
the fragmentation of managerial and technical responsibility that currently
results when decisions on the same project are required from two directorates
that may have conflicting short-run objectives. (For EBTU's organization
before and after the changes, see Charts 1(a) and 1(b).)
1/   See para 2.04.



- 25 -
3.25      The functions of the technical and operations directorates would be
reallocated to two new directorates, each dealing with a group of EBTU programs:
the Directorate of Road Infrastructure and Support would be responsible for
programs to make better use of or complement existing road infrastructure 1/
and the Directorate of Transport and Development will be responsible for
programs that would change the structure of the transport system and, poten-
tially, land-use patterns 2/. The use of program divisions will simplify
project processing: one manager will be responsible for all aspects of
project preparation and execution. It will allow staff to specialize on
specific aspects of urban transport, developing expertise and deepening
experience; it will enable staff to assimilate variations in costs, designs,
and schedules from different cities and regions; and it will enable staff to
work on both appraisal and supervision on a more consistent basis, increasing
learning opportunities and feedback from execution to design.
3.26      The integrated nature of urban transport projects will require
coordination and cooperation among the program divisions during project plan-
ning, evaluation, and execution. This will be achieved through the use of
matrix teams with members from different directorates chosen on the basis of
the objectives of the team and the expertise that members are expected
to contribute. The matrix team concept is efficient, productive, good for
morale, and consistent with practices in other Brazilian public sector institu-
tions. A Program Coordination Unit will be created to coordinate the matrix
teams. This unit would be made up of several coordinators under a senior staff
member responsible directly to the President. Each coordinator wouLld be
responsible for, and the primary source of information on, EBTU's programs in
a given city, metropolitan region, or state.  The project coordinator would be
responsible for setting up and managing matrix teams for appraisal and super-
vision. The coordinated system of matrix teams is an overlay on the basic
program structure and offers the highest probability of integrating the
efficiency of the program division concept with the integrated analysis that
is required for urban transport projects.
3.27      The final element of the reorganization component involves modify-
ing and expanding the functions of the Presidential Advisory Unit. The unit
would have two distinct functions: (a) quality and consistency revi.ew and
(b) development and training.  The first function would be to provi.de the
President of EBTU with an independent source of information and judgement on
the efficiency and effectiveness of the organization. While the uniit would be
responsible for an internal performance audit system, the review ftnction would
extend beyond measuring the efficiency of EBTU. It would also inc:Lude:
(a) consistency of cities' proposals (and the projects accepted by EBTU) with
national urban transport and energy policies and with individual EBTU program
guidelines; (b) quality and consistency of both the appraisal and supervision
systems; and (c) effectiveness of EBTU-financed projects as measured by program-
level ex post evaluations. The second function is that of promoting and
1/   Road Infrastructure, TOPICS, Rationalization of Public Transport, and
Community Participation and Education programs.
2/   Suburban Trains and Metros, Trolleybuses, Water Transport, and Terminals
programs.



- 26 -
developing specific systems, operations, or techniques that are important to
EBTU, but that require the prestige and attention of the Presidency to ensure
that they are accepted and used by the organization. Three operations would
initially fall within this category: management of the execution of the
institutional subproject, including testing and revising the Project Manual;
preparation and execution of the staff development program; and development of
a spatial and economic analysis capacity.
3.28      Execution of the three elements described above would create the
structural and organizational prerequisites for EBTU to embark upon the
implementation of the revised and improved project cycle procedures that are
set out below.
The Project Cycle Procedure Component
3.29      The main objective of this component is to introduce and test a
package of systematic and consistent procedures for project preparation,
appraisal, selection, execution, and supervision (including monitoring and
evaluation). A secondary objective is the development and refinement of the
instruments required to support the procedures (guidelines, manuals, criteria,
standards). The purpose of the procedures is to define the steps in project
processing from arrival in EBTU through analysis, project selection, execution,
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation. In addition, the type of analysis
to which a project would be subjected at each stage of project processing
would be defined. Finally, the responsibilities of different EBTU units for
the various analysis and decision tasks would be specified. (For a more
detailed statement of the procedures (project cycle), see Annex 5).
3.30      Instruments.  The principal new instrument required for the intro-
duction of the project cycle is the EBTU Project Manual (see Annex 4 for an
outline). This manual should, in its final form, set out all the information
required to guide local authorities and EBTU staff through the process of
preparing, appraising, executing, and supervising an urban transport project.
It would contain general guidelines, specific requirements, and criteria. The
manual will undergo revision during project execution, based on periodic reviews
of its use.  Supporting technical documents will also be prepared to provide
more detailed information on specific topics such as bus lane design and
operation, low-cost paving, and drainage. In some cases, these support docu-
ments will take the form of standards (e.g., for pedestrian foot-bridges);
others will detail methodologies for, inter alia, traffic forecasting and
economic evaluations. Where Brazilian data do not exist, foreign manuals may
be translated into Portuguese. The result will be a solid, well-documented
technical base for EBTU's operations.
The Training Component
3.31      Four categories of training are included.  The first comprises train-
ing of EBTU staff in the procedures to be adopted, focusing on the Project
Manual. Staff will receive training to enable them to perform under the new
system. Initial training will concentrate on the new requirements for appraisal
and supervision of projects, since many staff members will be involved in both.
The second type of training is aimed at ensuring that EBTU's staff have the



- 27 -
technical skills to perform adequately in their assignments following reorga-
nization.  In most cases, this will involve no more than bringing old skills up
to date; in some cases, it may involve retraining. Another area of emphasis
will be those EBTU operations that have traditionally been weak, such as
traffic operations and economic analysis. The third type of training covers
the same ground as the first two, but is aimed at local authorities. Expe-
rience has shown that EBTU's work is made considerably more difficult by the
presentation to EBTU of work (such as designs or economic analysis) that is
poor or that does not follow accepted practices. EBTU has to spend extra time
analyzing this work and making comments; more time is lost as the city responds.
Thus, the provision of training to local authorities, their staff, and consul-
tants on procedures to be followed, techniques, methodologies, andi standards
to be adopted, and forms of presentation will significantly increase EBTU's
productivity.  The fourth type of training is aimed at EBTU's management.
The objective is to assist managers in the identification and resolution of
managerial and organizational problems, to develop procedures for the evalu-
ation of a unit's performance, and to expose managers to more productive
management styles.
3.32      Technical Assistance Inputs.  EBTU will require speciali.zed
assistance to carry out some of these tasks. This assistance would take the
form of Brazilian or foreign consultants. The consultant assistance can be
broken down into two main categories: institutional and technical.
3.33      To support the introduction of the institutional subproject, an
organization and management specialist will be hired to provide support to
EBTU in the preparation, start-up, and implementation of the institutional
changes (41 months).  He will advise on the details of the new system, on the
mechanics of its implementation, and on responses to problems thali arise.  In
addition, specialists will be required to assist EBTU staff in carrying
out: (a) a manpower survey (3 months); a revision of the Internal Operating
Procedures (Regimento Interno) (3 months); a revision of job descriptions
(4 months); a program of staff reassignment (3 months); a salary and grade
policy review (3 months); the design of a management information system
(3 months); the design of a performance audit system (3 months); and the
development of a detailed work program for consultants (3 months). In
addition, eighteen man-months of assistance have been programmed for training
managers and technical staff in the use of new procedures and twelve man-months
for evaluation (on-going and ex-post) of the new system.
3.34      To support EBTU's technical development, assistance would be
provided in four forms: (a) six senior consultants during the project
execution period, (one in transport and land-use planning, two in traffic
engineering, one in transport economics, one in transport system operations,
and one in institutional development) to work with EBTU staff on appraisal and
supervision tasks and provide experience, judgement, and on-the-job training;
(b) t&e periodic evaluation and revision of the EBTU Project Manual and the
preparation of technical notes; (c) the translation into Portuguese of technical
documents; and (d) training for EBTU technicians through short courses covering
a variety of technical subjects.



- 28 -
3.35      To support project execution at the local level, EBTU will hire one
consultant for each AGLURB subproject to work for the first year of project
execution as an adviser (a) to the EBTU project coordinator and (b) to the
local project management and execution agencies. Those consultants would
have experience in the execution of urban transport projects and would
provide the support necessary to ensure that the projects are executed even
if EBTU's supervision system does not develop as quickly as planned.
3.36      Finally, to cover areas in which basic data are lacking or in which
the problems are poorly understood, the project will include six studies:
(a) urban transport planning under energy constraints, with emphasis on modal
and fuel substitutability; (b) design and financing of programs to maintain
urban transport infrastructure; (c) methodologies for calculating vehicle
operating costs in the Brazilian urban context; (d) bus line (route) planning,
regulation, and control; (e) improvements in bus services through changes in
operating procedures; and (f) the financial, equity, and practical implications
of alternative methods of passing Bank loan, other external loans, and EBTU's
budgetary funds to cities as loans.
3.37      It was agreed at negotiations that (a) EBTU would complete the studies
by December 31, 1982, (b) EBTU would review the results of the studies with
the Bank, (c) EBTU would reflect the results of the studies as appropriate in
its Project and PROPAV Manuals, (d) following the review of study (b), EBTU
would prepare an appropriate urban transport infrastructure maintenance policy
and employ its best efforts to implement such a policy, and (e) following the
completion of study (f), EBTU would present to the Bank a proposal for changing
(if necessary) the terms under which it would pass the proceeds of the Bank
loan to the cities.
IV. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total estimated cost of the project (including contingencies)
is US$257 million, of which US$59 million (23%) would be foreign exchange.
The base cost estimates are expressed in January 1981 prices and are based on
appraisals by the Bank of three AGLURB Subprojects (Distrito Federal, Baixada
Santista, and Sao Luis),l/ target costs for the seven remaining AGLURB Sub-
projects, and an estimated average cost per kilometer for the PROPAV Subproject.
Thus, a ceiling on total project costs has been established. The final alloca-
tion of funds between the remaining cities will be determined on the basis of
appraisals to be carried out by EBTU. Project cost estimates are presented in
Table 4.1; summary cost estimates for the three cities appraised by the Bank
are presented in Table 4.2.
4.02       Cost estimates for the three AGLURB Subprojects appraised are based
on preliminary engineering designs, although final designs are ready or under
preparation for components that will be executed at the beginning of project
implementation. Thus, bidding will be able to begin soon after loan signing.
1/   Land acquisition costs are included and are estimated to amount to less
than 1% of total project costs.



- 29 -
Summary of Project Costs
4.1: Distribution by Cities
Cr$ 106                                                US$ 106
Physical      Price                                    Physical  Price
Base Costs   Cont.          Cont.         Total          Base Costs Cont.       Cont.      Total
JI/
Distrito Federal-         1,661          204          300          2,165              25.5       3.1       4.6       33.2
Baixada Santista-/        1,777          211          371           2,539            27.3        3.2       5.7       36.2
Sao Luis-/                  642           73          117            832              9.8        1.1      1.8        12.7
*          Unallocated-/             4,562            --       1,082           5,644             70.0        --      16.6        86.6
Institutional (T.A.)        698           --          104             802             10.7        __       1.6       12.3
PROPAV                    4,119           --          834           4,953             63.2        --     12.8         76.0
TOTAL                  13,459          488        2,808         16,755             206.5       7.4    43.1        257.0
1/ AGLURB Subprojects.
4.2  Distribution by Components for AGIURB Subprojects Appraised by the Bank                                                         Cr$106
A G L U R B                      Design &          Construction &        Training        Management &          Physical               TOTAL
Supervision          Equipment          & Studies        Monitoring         Contingencies
DISTRITO FEDERAL
Brazlandia                            i.l                 11.1                _                                    1.7                  1.
Ceilandia                           49.9                 504.4                -                  -                78.7                 633.0
Gama                                41.9                 419.4                _                                   63.8                 525.1
Planaltina                            3.1                 30.8                         -                           4.6                  38.5
Sobradinho                           10.7                107.1                                                    16.1.                133.9
Taguatinga                           25.7                257.5                _                  _                38.6                 321.8
Technical Assistance                  -                     3.4            80.6                114.0               0.5                 198.5
Sub-Total                           132.4              1,333.7             80.6                114.0             204.0               1,864.7
BAIXADA SANTISTA                      7/                                                                          11.4                 101.6
Av. Tupiniquins                       7.6                  82.6               _                  _                28.8                 239.8
Av. Santos Dumont                    19.2                 191.8
Bsus Route Improvements              20.0                200.1                                                    30.0                 250.1
72.1          729.b6                                -                110.2                 924.q
Traffic Schemes
Passenger Terminal V.C.              11.4                 114.5                                                    1 1.                117.8
Suburban Facilities                  15.3                  89.1                                                    13.4                    .
Technical Assistance                  -                     -              52.9                173.0                -                  225.9
Sub-Total                           146.1               1,405.0            52.9                173.0             .211.0              1,990.2
SAO LUIS
Centro Historico                      3.0                  30.1               -                  -                  4.5                 37.6
Corredor Cento-Noil                  14.3                 142.4               _                  _                 21.3                178.0
Area of Influence                    18.6                 184.1               -                  -                 28.3                231.0
Technical Assistance                  -                   122.9            64.0                 67.2               18.4                272.5
Sub-Total                            36.3                 483.9            64.0                 67.2               73.2                715.5
Includes land in the value of Cr$ 6.6millions.
Includes land ir the value of Cr$ 26.6millions.



- 30 -
Physical contingencies of 15% have been allowed for all components. The
target costs for the remaining seven cities have been set at US$10 million
per city. This reflects the size of the cities and the project implementation
period. The cost estimates for the PROPAV program are based on an average
cost of US$120,000 per kilometer for paving and ancilliary services, including
physical contingencies.  The project would provide about 150 man-years of
consulting services at an average cost estimated at US$12,000 per man-month
(including travel, subsistence, and overhead). This is consistent with
current experience in Brazil.
4.03       The price contingency rates which have been applied are 9% p.a. for
1981, 8.5% p.a. for 1982, and 7.5% p.a. thereafter, all applied to US dollar
costs (at January 1981 prices). These represent the best estimates of price
contingency requirements, given world-wide inflation rates and recent dollar-
cruzeiro exchange rate trends.
B. Financing Plan
4.04       A Bank contribution of 35% of total project costs is proposed, given
the low foreign exchange component (23%) and the high poverty impact (70%) of
the project (see paras. 6.10-6.12). This would represent a total loan amount
of US$90 million 1/. Counterpart funds would come from EBTU's budgetary
resources (32.5%) and from the local resources of participating states and
municipalities (32.5%). For technical assistance to EBTU, the Bank would
contribute 35% and EBTU 65% of the costs. The financing plan is shown in
Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN (US$ million)
Municipalities/
IBRD         EBTU            States            TOTAL
Distrito Federal a/         11.6          10.8             10.8              33.2
Baixada Santista a/         12.7          11.7             11.8              36.2
Sao Luis a/                  4.4          4.2               4.1              12.7
Other Cities (7) a/         30.4          28.1             28.1              86.6
PROPAV                      26.6          24.7             24.7              76.0
T.A. to EBTU                 4.3           8.0              --               12.3
TOTAL                  90.0         87.5              79.5            257.0
a/   AGLURB Subprojects.
As a step toward ensuring EBTU's long-term financial viability, the Ministry
of Transport recently decided in principle to relieve EBTU of the respon-
sibility for repaying Bank Loans from budgetary resources by transferring this
1/   As the foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at US$59 million,
this would include financing for US$31 million of project costs in local
currency.



- 31 -
responsibility to the cities. The Ministry has also expressed interest in
exploring methods of passing EBTU's own budgetary resources to cities as loans
instead of grants. A study of the financial, equity, and practical implica-
tions of such a step has been included in the program of special studies to be
financed under the project (see para 3.36-7).
C. Financial Impact on Local Governments
AGLURB Subprojects
4.05       The three AGLURB Subprojects appraised by the Bank are for medium-
sized conurbations with small to medium-sized budgets and investment programs.
The 1979 budget for the Distrito Federal was Cr$14.0 billion of which 40% was
for capital expenditure; for the Baixada Santista the individual budgets of
the five cities that make up the conurbation ranged from Cr$ 0.347 billion to
Cr$ 1.7 billion of which an average of 44% was for capital expenditure; and
for Sao Luis the budget was Cr$ 0.53 billion of which 50% was for capital
expenditure. In the Distrito Federal and the Baixada Santista, the adminis-
tration and management of municipal finances are good. Cadastral and tax
collection operations are mechanized, regularly updated, and work reasonably
well except for the collection of back taxes, which is difficult because of
lengthy legal delays in processing individual cases. Each of the cities,
however, has an active program in operation to resolve this problem. An
examination of the financial statements for the past five years for each of
the cities shows that they possess the necessary financial management capacity
to carry out the proposed program in an appropriate manner.
4.06       Distrito Federal and Baixada Santista.  The size of the AGLURB Sub-
projects is in line with the current urban investment programs of these cities.
Compared with average projected annual capital expenditure for 1980-82, annual
counterpart funds for the proposed project amount to an average of 7% for the
Distrito Federal and 4% for the Baixada Santista. Thus, the subproiects con-
stitute a relatively small part of the cities' investment programs and the
provision of counterpart funds will, therefore, not present problems in either
of these cities. Neither will the provision of funds for operation and main-
tenance be a problem. Each of the cities has had substantial and growing
operating surpluses for the past five years and is expected to continue this
trend into the future. Municipal revenues have grown recently in real terms
by 7% p.a. for Brasilia, by 12% p.a. for the Baixada Santista (this figure is
an average of the annual growth for the five cities in the Baixada).
4.07       Sao Luis.  In Sao Luis, the municipal administration is weak,
especially in the area of financial management. However, the new mayor of
Sao Luis has, in the six months that he has been in office, embarkecl upon a
program of reform and reorganization of the city administration in order to
increase revenues (especially from delinquent tax sources and through increased
property tax assessments) and to decrease operating costs (specifically by
eliminating from the city payroll persons who do not even reside in the state
or who never report to work). The mayor has the full support of his key staff
and of the Governor of the State. The city is also receiving support from the
CNDU medium-sized cities program to update and improve its entire cadastral



- 32 -
and tax collection system. What is missing from the mayor's scheme, however,
is a unified plan which coordinates the efforts of the key city agencies such
as finance, transportation, urban development, and administration. Following
discussions with city officials during the appraisal mission, it was agreed
that such a plan would be produced and discussed with the Bank during super-
vision missions. In the light of the proposed changes and given continued
state support, Sao Luis should be able to carry out the tasks associated with
managing the financial resources required for the project.
4.08      The same does not apply to the provision of funds.  Sao Luis'
financial position is precarious and it relies heavily on the state for both
capital and operating budgets. It would, therefore, be unrealistic to rely on
Sao Luis to produce counterpart funds. It has been agreed that the State of
Maranhao will provide the funds required to complement Bank/EBTU project funds
and for subsequent operations and maintenance. The provision of such resources
is within the State's financial capacity.
4.09       It is important to note that local counterpart contributions are
frequently the result of negotiations between the cities and the states.
Thus, the important factor is whether the city and the state jointly are able
to commit the necessary funds. The internal distribution is the result of
relative capacity, interest, and political power. This is important since
several of the cities not yet appraised are poor northeastern cities that
may require state assistance with the local counterpart contribution. The
necessary funds for the project have been included in the relevant city and
state budgets for 1981 and EBTU will require, in the contractual agreements
(convenios) that it will sign with the cities and states, a covenant ensuring
that adequate funds are made available for operations and maintenance.
4.10      Not only is the financial burden created by the subprojects limited
and acceptable to the cities involved, the subprojects will also create the
potential for increasing municipal revenues as a result of the increases in
land and property values that will follow the urban transport investments.
The extent of these revenue increases has not been estimated. EBTU will
include in their agreements a covenant to ensure that the cities will take all
necessary steps to revise the assessments of properties whose values are
affected by the project components within one year of the completion of each
component.
PROPAV Subproject
4.11       Since the investments involved will be relatively small, it is not
expected that any of the participating cities will have difficulties in
providing either counterpart funds or resources for operation and maintenance.
D. Procurement and Disbursements
4.12      Procurement Procedures.  Based on estimates for the three AGLURB
subprojects appraised by the Bank, the AGLURB subprojects would require procure-
ment of approximately US$126 million of civil works and equipment. In addition,
the PROPAV Subproject would require procurement of about US$65 million of civil



- 33 -
works. Procurement for the AGLURB and PROPAV subprojects would be carried out
under local competitive procedures, acceptable to the Bank. These procedures,
based on federal legislation, ensure adequate competition and are consistent
with Bank procurement guidelines. The use of local procedures is justified by
the type of works involved and the fact that they will be spread ovesr ten
cities over five years involving a large number of executing entities. Expe-
rience with contracting for similar civil works under ICB under the First
Urban Transport Project has revealed average contract sizes of US$250,000;
the average contract size in the decile containing the largest contracts was
US$1.1 million; and the largest contract awarded was under US$1.5 million.
Under the First and Second Feeder Roads Projects (Loans No. 1207-BR and No.
1730-BR), which use the proposed local procedures, foreign firms have only bid
on contracts over US$4 million, and then only with assurances that future
works would be available to bid on. Overall, given the scale and capacity
of the Brazilian contracting industry, contracts of the type included in this
project are not generally of interest to foreign firms. Should they express
interest, however, Brazilian law would permit them to participate in bidding
for contracts. The same procedures are being used under the Medium-Sized
Cities Project (Loan No. 1720-BR). Contracts for equipment will be for small
quantities and would not exceed US$300,000 per contract with the possible
exception of traffic signal equipment. which might be as high as US$800,000.
International traffic signal equipment manufacturers are, however, well repre-
sented in Brazil and would participate in bidding for such contracts even if
advertised locally. Appropriate checks will be made by supervision missions
to ensure that performance and quality are commensurate with satisfactory
subproject execution. Subject to Bank approval, force account would be
permitted for minor works for which bidding would involve costs and delays
disproportionate to the works involved. The total amount is not expected to
exceed US$10 million (4% of total project costs). Contracts for goods
estimated to cost less than US$10,000 may be procured by local shopping, up
to a total of US$1 million for the project as a whole.
4.13      Bank Review of Procurement.  Prior Bank review and approval of
bidding documents, bid evaluations, contract awards, and contracts would be
required for the first civil works contract that is the subject of bidding
in each city receiving funds under the AGLURB Subprojects. For all other
contracts, EBTU would carry out a prior review of bidding documents, bid
evaluations, contract awards, and contracts to ensure that the use of local
procedures is in accordance with the relevant legislation and is consistent
with Bank procurement guidelines. EBTU would forward to the Bank biannual
procurement reports, containing analyses of all procurement carried out in the
previous six months. These reports would be submitted no later than March 31
and September 30 for the periods January 1 to July 31, and June 1 to December 31,
respectively, of every year during which procurement for the project is carried
out. Should the Bank determine that the award of any contract was inconsistent
with agreed procedures, it would cancel the amount of the loan allcocated to
that contract and deduct such amount from a future disbursement. Bank super-
vision missions would examine ex post approximately 15% of contracts to ensure
that bidding and contract awards were consistent with Bank guidelines.
The contracts examined would be selected in such a way as to cover 40%
of the total value of the project.



- 34 -
4.14      Bank Review of Final Designs.  In addition to the review of procure-
ment noted above, prior Bank review and approval would be required for final
designs (a) for the first two AGLURB Subproject components to be financed
under the project in each of the following categories: (i) new road construc-
tion; (ii) road widening; (iii) intersection improvements; (iv) bus lanes;
(v) bus terminals; (vi) bus route paving in poor areas; (vii) traffic signals;
(viii) central business district traffic circulation plans; and (ix) pedestrian
footbridges, (b) for the first PROPAV Subproject component in each of the
first three cities to be financed, and (c) for any other subproject components
that may be requested by the Bank. Such requests would be made by the Bank at
the time of its review of EBTU's appraisal report for each city.
4.15      Disbursements.  Bank funds would be disbursed to cover 32% of expen-
diture for civil works and equipment contracts under the AGLURB and PROPAV
Subprojects, 100% of expenditure for technical assistance to EBTU (including
the PROPAV evaluation), and 100% of operating expenses for the project manage-
ment unit in each city. Disbursements up to December 31, 1982 for civil works
and equipment would be made at the rate of 49% of expenditure and thereafter
at a rate adjusted to result in an overall disbursement percentage of 32% of
all expenditure for civil works and equipment. Disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure submitted by EBTU certifying EBTU disburse-
ments to the local agencies for civil works and equipment and for project
management units and discriminating the components and contracts involved,
the location of the works, and the amount disbursed. Detailed documentation
supporting the statements of expenditure, including contracts, supervision
reports, certification of work completed, and disbursements by EBTU would be
kept by the local project management units for review by Bank supervision
missions. EBTU has demonstrated its capacity to manage such a procedure.
Disbursements for technical assistance to EBTU would be fully documented. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 9, Annex 3. The proposed
closing date would be June 30, 1985.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.16      It was agreed at negotiations (a) that the AGLURB Subproject execu-
ting agencies would maintain adequate subproject accounts and shall furnish
them to EBTU, (b) that EBTU would maintain separate accounts on the AGLURB
Subprojects, PROPAV Subproject, and technical assistance to EBTU, plus a
consolidated project account; (c) that EBTU would arrange for annual audits
of the subproject accounts, EBTU's project accounts, and the consolidated
account by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (d) that EBTU would
submit the audits to the Bank not more than six months after the close of
each fiscal year. In addition, the auditors would examine the statements
of expenditure submitted with disbursement applications to ensure that they
are supported by adequate documentation and reflect properly incurred expen-
diture for legitimate project purposes.
4.17      To meet auditing requirements under the First Urban Transport
Project, EBTU submitted to the Bank audited accounts for 1978 and 1979. The
accounts were audited by the Inspector General of Finances (IGF) of the



- 35 -
Ministry of Finance. The audits carried out were thorough and in iaccordance
with accepted practices. They demonstrated that EBTU and the participating
municipalities had managed their financial affairs satisfactorily, using
adequate financial control procedures and maintaining accurate records. The
opinions applied to EBTU's general accounts, to the project accounts maintained
by EBTU, and to the subproject accounts maintained by the participating
municipalities.
V. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Responsibilities for Project Execution
5.01       EBTU would have overall responsibility for the execution of the
project. Specifically, it would implement the institutional subproject, carry
out appraisals for the seven additional AGLURB subprojects, supervise project
execution in all ten AGLURB subprojects, operate the PROPAV prograrm, and
channel funds for and exercise financial supervision over all subprojects.
It was agreed at negotiations that EBTU would maintain an EBTU/Bankc coordin-
ator for the project. The individual municipalities and states wiLl be
responsible for the physical execution of subproject components wit:hin their
jurisdictions.
B. EBTU Responsibilities
Institutional Subproject
5.02       The implementation of the institutional subproject will be managed
by the recently designated Coordinator of Modernization Studies, 1/ assisted
by a support group made up of representatives from each of the directorates
and the Presidency, and with the support of one senior and two middlle-level
consultants. The responsibility of the group is to manage the process of
organizational change and to be responsible to the President for the implemen-
tation of the institutional subproject. The coordinator is knowledgeable in
organizational change. He has been an adviser to the President for approxi-
mately two years and has been instrumental in developing the program for
change; prior to that he was responsible for reorganizing the State Planning
Secretariat in Rio Grande do Norte. The implementation of the institutional
subproject comprises the following tasks: preparation, start-up, operation,
and training.
5.03      Preparation consists of carrying out the prerequisites tco the actual
implementation of the institutional subproject, including: (a) description of
the responsibilities and functions of each organizational unit in the new
1/   This adviser to the President also heads the Planning Advisory Unit and
is the Administrative Advisor to the Board.



- 36 -
structure and a statement of the new operating procedures; (b) job descriptions
for the new units; (c) completion of survey of qualifications and experience
of existing EBTU staff; (d) listing of assignments that match qualifications
and experience with job descriptions; (e) a review of EBTU's grade and salary
structure; and (f) development of a plan for monitoring the new EBTU procedures
(especially appraisal and supervision), together with a management information
system and baseline data on key variables that can be used to measure perfor-
mance. The new draft operating procedures were reviewed at negotiations and
the program for reorganization has also been approved by the Minister of
Transport. The remaining prerequisites are under preparation. Start-up
consists of three tasks. First, the reorganization (including the creation
of new units, the reassignment of staff, and physical relocation) would be
carried out. It was agreed at negotiations that the specific tasks of reorga-
nizing the Technical and Operations Directorates, strengthening the Planning
Advisory Unit, and creating the Program Coordination Unit would be completed
by June 30, 1981. Second, the new operating procedures would be introduced,
including beginning the training of EBTU staff and management in the new
procedures and notification to the states and municipalities. Third, the
training of staff for their new roles, including the hiring of consultants,
would be initiated. It is expected that the start-up period will last for
three months. Operation consists of applying the new operating procedures,
specifically appraisal and supervision, as set out in the EBTU Project Manual,
to EBTU's operations. Training will be carried out under the management of
the Presidential Advisory Unit. The detailed training program, together with
a detailed consultants' work program, will be produced following discussion
of the results of the manpower survey and staff reassignment proposals. To
provide a forum for periodic discussions of progress on the subproject in
particular, and the effectiveness of EBTU management in general, a series of
quarterly management work conferences would be held for the top and middle
management of EBTU. It was agreed at negotiations that completion of detailed
training and consultants' work programs satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of disbursement for the institutional subproject.
5.04      Summary.  Successful implementation of this subproject will depend
partly on the timely production of strategic inputs, such as the new internal
operating procedures, and partly on the determination of EBTU management and
staff to succeed. EBTU has already devoted considerable effort and resources
to the development of this subproject. This is a good indicator of its
determination. In addition, the important inputs have been identified and
EBTU is committed to a program and timetable for producing them in a timely
fashion. Finally, the conception of institutional change as a subproject
with outputs, targets, monitoring, and reporting means that any implementation
failures will be highly visible. Thus, the incentives and inputs for the
implementation of this component have been established. The probability of
success is high and the risk involved is well justified by the potential
benefits, both to EBTU and to the cities that it serves.
The AGLURB Subprojects
5.05      EBTU will be responsible for appraising packages of urban transport
investments in seven cities by September 30, 1982 and for supervising all the
AGLURB Subprojects. The appraisal and supervision procedures to be used are



- 37 -
those set out in the EBTU Project Manual. The Project Manual was reviewed by
Bank staff prior to negotiations, and it was agreed that the content of the
Project Manual is satisfactory as a basis for proceeding to the testing phase.
It was also agreed that it would not be materially modified without the Bank's
concurrence. The Project Manual was formally adopted by the EBTU Bloard on
24 February 1981. The Bank would review the seven appraisal reports to be
produced by EBTU to ensure consistency with the manual. Bank approval of each
appraisal report would be a condition of disbursement for that particular
city. Bank supervision missions would also verify that the supervision
procedures set out in the manual were being applied.
5.06      Appraisal.  The EBTU Project Manual 1/ reflects the following
basic guidelines for appraisal: (a) projects should be analyzed tco ensure
that they are consistent with the urban development and urban transport
strategies of the city; (b) they should be checked against the principles of
(i) making the most efficient use of existing infrastructure and systems
before embarking on major new construction and (ii) favoring public: transport;
(c) special attention should be given to public transport services used by the
urban poor; (d) alternative transport solutions should be analyzed to ensure
that the best solution had been found; (e) designs should be examinled to
ensure that the most economic solution, in terms of scale, materials, and
construction technique, had been selected; (f) an assessment should be made of
the land and property that would have to be acquired (designs should minimize
this item by using existing rights-of-way where possible and, when residential
property must be acquired, a plan for relocation of residents should be
prepared); (g) cost estimates (both by project and unit costs) should be
checked for realism against recent experience; (h) an economic analysis should
be carried out including implementation and maintenance costs and, as estimates
of benefits, savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time (benefits
should be discriminated by vehicle type and, where possible, income group);
(i) all required complementary measures (such as new traffic regulations)
should be examined and included in the contractual agreements; and (j) the
agencies that would execute the project should be examined to ensure that they
have the required capacity and experience and that they will coordinate
effectively with other agencies.
5.07      The criteria that would guide project selection include: (a) each
project would be (i) technically justified in terms of design and operation,
(ii) the least cost feasible solution, (iii) scheduled for implementation by
competent agencies, (iv) maximize the proportion of benefits channeled to the
urban poor, and (v) have adequate arrangements made to cover capital, operating,
and maintenance costs; (b) emphasize low-cost public transport improvements;
and (c) be economically justified with a positive net present value at a
discount rate of eleven percent (the Bank's estimate of the opportunity cost
of capital in Brazil).
1/   See Annex 4 for an outline of the manual.



- 38 -
5.08      It is intended to apply the appraisal procedures to a wider range of
projects than those included in the AGLURB Subprojects. Because of practical
constraints on the rapid, widespread application of such procedures, a phased
program has been adopted. It was agreed at negotiations that EBTU would apply
the appraisal procedures set out in the manual to not less than 45% (on an
estimated cost basis) of the projects proposed to it for financing in 1982
under each EBTU program category. This percentage would rise to 60% in 1983
and 70% in 1984.
5.09      Supervision.  Since all subprojects will be executed by local
agencies, EBTU's role is one of supervision overview and quality control. Its
principal tasks are (a) to approve final designs; (b) to review procurement
procedures; (c) to follow closely local implementation activities; (d) to
ensure that projects are being executed efficiently, as designed, and within
budget; (e) to detect problems at as early a stage as possible; and (f) to
participate in the development of solutions.  Coordination of supervision
efforts by different divisions will be ensured by the program coordinators.
To ensure coordination with other transport initiatives, it was agreed at
negotiations that EBTU would inform the Bank of any proposed urban transport
investment estimated to cost more than US$3 million in any AGLURB city,
provide information on the impact of such investment on the Bank subproject,
and give the Bank an adequate opportunity to comment on the investment.
Execution of any such investment that the Bank had determined would materially
and adversely affect any subproject would constitute grounds for suspension of
disbursements for that subproject.
5.10      The supervision procedures set out in the EBTU Project Manual
reflect the following basic principles: (a) progress on a project will be
monitored in terms of physical indicators (quantities) and financial indi-
cators (expenditure) (see also para. 5.20); (b) special attention will be
paid to (i) updating and revising cost estimates and (ii) revising implemen-
tation schedules; (c) visits to the cities should be coordinated with the
preparation of periodic reports on physical works; (d) procedures should
be established for reporting and following up on visits to cities; (e) com-
pliance by the cities with covenants in the contractual agreements should be
regularly reported on and evaluated; and (f) reporting formats should be
standardized to facilitate reviews and transfer of information. It was agreed
at negotiations that the supervision section of the manual would be applied to
the AGLURB Subprojects, the PROPAV Subproject, the First and Second Urban
Transport Projects, and to all other EBTU projects in state capitals. This
covers about 90% of EBTU's operations.
The PROPAV Subproject
5.11      EBTU will have responsibility for the execution of the PROPAV Sub-
project, although the preparation of designs and execution of works will be
the responsibility of the participating municipalities.  The objective of this
program, apart from the provision of significant benefits to residents of
low-income areas, is to demonstrate the efficiency of a program approach to
investment based on a manual establishing what is and what is not acceptable,
and facilitating project preparation by the cities and project review and
supervision by EBTU. Thus, this component is proceeding in phases. Phase I



- 39 -
included a review of EBTU experience with low-cost paving projects, EMTU-SP
experience in the preparation of manuals, and the University of Paraiba study
of alternative paving types and materials. This resulted in the production
of the PROPAV Manual (see Annex 4 for an outline). The manual reflects the
following criteria: (a) only bus routes in poor areas (i.e., in which 70%
of household have incomes below three minimum salaries) will be eligible; (b)
the type of paving will be the least-cost method of providing adequate bearing
capacity given traffic flows, soil conditions, and maintenance requirements;
(c) drainage works will not exceed the minimum necessary to protect the
pavement; (d) complementary infrastruture (e.g., sidewalks, street 'Lighting,
landscaping) will not be included unless a special justification is provided;
coordination with other infrastructure (e.g., water supply); and (f) all links
or integrated groups of links will be economically justified (with a positive
net present value at a discount rate of 11%). It was agreed at negotiations
that the content of the manual was satisfactory as a basis for testing its
application and that the manual would be used for the PROPAV progran. It was
also agreed that the manual would not be materially modified without the
concurrence of the Bank. The PROPAV Manual was formally adopted by EBTU's
Board on 24 February 1981.
5.12      Phase II would start upon loan signing and would include three major
elements: first, actual paving of roads; second, further study of the use of
the manual; and third, establishment of maintenance procedures for low-cost
roads. This phase would last one year and would conclude with an evaluation
of the performance of the manual and the costs of the paving constructed.
This evaluation would result in appropriate revisions to the manual. The sub-
project would be managed, up to EBTU's reorganization, by the inter-directorate
working group that prepared the manual. Following the reorganization, it
would be managed by the Roads Division of the new Directorate of Road Infra-
structure and Support. Staff in this division would review preliminary
proposals from municipalities, orient them in the preparation of feasibility
studies and designs, evaluate final proposals, and supervise the execution
of works. They would also be responsible for the annual evaluations of the
program, in which task they would be supported by the Planning Advisory Unit.
They would be responsible for revising the manual as and when appropriate.
For each PROPAV Subproject component prepared for financing by the Bank, EBTU
would certify that it was in accordance with the manual and that a convenio
had been signed. Such certification would constitute a condition of disburse-
ment for each component. In addition, the Bank would review the designs of
the first component in each of the first three cities, participating in the
Subproject.
5.13      Phase III would cover mid-1982 to mid-1983 and include works in a
wider range of physical conditions, followed by a further evaluation and
manual revision. Phase IV would take place from mid-1983 to mid-1984, with
more works, a final evaluation, and the preparation of a national paving
program. It was agreed at negotiations that EBTU would review with the Bank
on an annual basis its experience with the program.
C. Local Responsiblities
5.14      Local agencies of the municipalities and states would be responsible
for final designs, procurement, supervision of works, and monitoring and



- 40 -
evaluation. A management unit would be established in each city to oversee
the preparation and execution of works and to liaise with EBTU and with the
Bank. Each management unit would operate under the guidance of a coordinating
council, whose objective would be to facilitate interaction and avoid conflict.
5.15      The components of the Distrito Federal Subproject would be designed,
implemented, operated, and maintained by various departments within the
Secretaria de Viacao e Obras (SVO) and Secretaria de Servicos Publicos under
the general coordination of the former. The management unit would be established
within the Departamento de Obras of SVO. In Sao Luis, the Subproject components
would be designed, implemented, operated, and maintained by various departments
within the Secretaria de Obras e Transportes, within which the management unit
would be established. In the Baixada Santista, the Subproject components would
be executed by agencies of the five municipalities involved. The management
unit would be created jointly by the five municipalities, each of which would
second staff to make up the unit. The specific agency responsibilities for
the different stages of project execution for each of the cities appraised by
the Bank are presented in Tables 6, 7, and 8 of Annex 3. The performance of
each agency was appraised and judged to be satisfactory or subject to correc-
tion within the project.
D. Flow of Funds and Legal Arrangements
5.16      EBTU would be the Borrower.  Proceeds of the Bank loan would be
passed to the cities on terms acceptable to the Bank which, under the First
Urban Transport Project, took the form of grants. Since EBTU and the Ministry
of Transport are examining methods of transferring the debt service obligation
to the cities, the precise terms will only be known after the completion of
the study on this topic. It was agreed at negotiations that EBTU would provide
the Bank with the results of the study, including the financial impact on the
cities, and obtain the Bank's agreement to the such new terms as may be proposed
for adoption (see paras. 3.36-7). EBTU would be responsible for loan repayments
to the Bank; such repayments are guaranteed by the Federal Government.
5.17      The project's legal structure would comprise a Loan Agreement
between the Bank and EBTU, a Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the
Federal Government, and ten contractual agreements (convenios) between EBTU,
the Ministry of Transport, and the cities and states participating in the
AGLURB subprojects. The PROPAV Subproject components would be included in the
normal EBTU/Ministry of Transport/State/City convenios. There would be no
direct contractual link between the Bank and the participating cities, but the
contractual agreements would be subject to Bank approval to ensure the inclu-
sion of appropriate clauses on project execution responsibilities, accounting,
reporting, and complementary measures. Draft contractual agreements for the
Distrito Federal, the Baixada Santista, and Sao Luis do Maranhao were reviewed
with the Bank at negotiations. Only minor modifications are required. It was
also agreed that these draft contractual agreements constitute an acceptable
model for future contractual agreements. Signing of the modified contractual
agreements would constitute conditions of disbursement for these three cities.
For each of the remaining seven cities, signing of a contractual agreement
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement. It was agreed at
negotiations that EBTU would enter into contractual agreements with the
remaining seven cities by December 31, 1982.



- 41 -
E. Implementation Schedule
5.18      Project implementation will take approximately three and El half
years. This period allows three years for the PROPAV Subproject, three years
for the implementation of the first three AGLURB subprojects, two years for
the remaining seven, and reflects the fact that the last two AGLURB cities
will only be appraised in the second year of project execution. Detailed
schedules of expenditure for the first three AGLURB cities, for technical
assistance to EBTU, and for the project as a whole are presented in Tables 1,
2, 3, 4, and 5 of Annex 3. Under the First Urban Transport Project, the
cities and EBTU experienced delays in project execution, partly because of
delays in design and design review and partly because of overly optimistic
programming. The implementation schedules for the proposed project reflect
this experience. The supervision system for this project will also provide
more timely feedback on delays and their causes, through the introduction of
a system for the quarterly updating of the initial schedules. This will make
it easier to maintain both physical and financial control of the wolrks. The
improved supervision procedures to be used by EBTU will assist in this process.
However, strong efforts to revise on-going work programs to meet initial
schedules will have to be made if cost overruns are to be avoided. In the
past, emphasis has been placed on extending implementation schedules to meet
delays rather than on correcting the fundamental problems. This is a key
area for improvement in the Third Project. Overall, better performance in
adhering to timetables can be expected under this project.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.19      Monitoring.  The objectives of the monitoring program are:  (a) to
provide local agencies and EBTU with monthly statements on the physical,
institutional, and financial status of the subprojects; (b) to provide monthly
statements on implementation problems; (c) to provide inputs to the quarterly
statements on project status; and (d) to provide adequate information to
allow updating of project costs and scheduling. All reports should enable
locally prepared information to be used with little or no change by EBTU for
its subsequent reporting to the Bank.
5.20      For physical works subproject components, four areas--scheduling,
quantities, quality control, and contractual changes--should be monitored
closely and should be included in the quarterly progress reports. For the
institutional subproject, reports should include planned and actual accomplish-
ments in the quarter, reasons for any deviations, the plan for the following
quarter, and a statement of problems encountered, solved, pending, and
expected. Basic agreements have been reached with EBTU on the content of
progress reports. In addition, it was agreed at negotiations that EBTU would
submit to the Bank a report on its overall activities for each of the years
1981 to 1984 and would discuss these reports with the Bank.
5.21      As part of the monitoring program, a set of key indicators will
be used. These factors will be measured and reported on each quarter. The
objective of presenting such indicators is to give both EBTU management and
the Bank a quick reference with which to judge the progress of the physical



- 42 -
works. The indicators should show how close the project is to completion
and/or what percentage of the project is already in operation (see Annex 3,
Tables 10-13 for the key indicators for the three cities appraised by the Bank
and for the PROPAV Subproject).
5.22      Ex-post Evaluation.  Programs for evaluating the effectiveness of
subproject components have been drawn up for each of the cities appraised by
the Bank. The programs range from extensive in the Distrito Federal to simple
in Sao Luis, depending on the type of works involved and local capacity. EBTU
has also had experience under the First Urban Transport Project in designing
and supervising ex-post evaluation programs. The proposed programs would
measure changes in travel service standards for public transport in particular
and traffic in general. Specific variables measured would include travel
time, travel cost, frequency of service, and failure to pick up passengers.
These variables would be measured on a sample basis, before and after the
improvements and would form a basis for judging whether the projects produce
the predicted benefits. In comparison with actual cost data, the benefit
measures will enable the economic justifications to be verified. The evalua-
tion system that is being established for the institutional subproject is of
particular interest and will enable the benefits of the reorganization, the
new procedures, and staff training to be evaluated in a systematic way and on
the basis of specific indicators. The important events and their timing
are shown in Chart 2, Annex 3. Base-line data on key indicators are being
prepared by EBTU. It was agreed at negotiations that EBTU would establish
an evaluation program satisfactory to the Bank by June 30, 1981.
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Overall Results
6.01      The three AGLURB Subprojects appraised by the Bank (Distrito Federal,
Baixada Santista, and Sao Luis) are all strongly justified. Economic analyses
were performed on components that constitute 88% of subproject costs for the
three cities. This corresponds to 28.5% of total project costs. The weighted
average internal rate of return exceeds 50% in all of them. The PROPAV
Subproject components are expected to yield internal rates of return between
25% and 70%. These results demonstrate the high returns that can be obtained
from well-designed measures to improve urban transport. The subproject com-
ponents are designed to yield substantial benefits to the urban poor. For
AGLURB subprojects appraised by the Bank, the percentage of costs that will
yield direct benefits to the urban poor is estimated to range from 58% in the
Distrito Federal to 74% in the Baixada Santista and 95% in Sao Luis. The
PROPAV subproject will have a 100% poverty impact. Overall, the estimated
poverty impact of the Project is 75%. These estimates reflect the strong
project design orientation toward improving transport services for the urban
poor and demonstrate the extent to which urban transport projects can be urban
poverty oriented, even when road construction projects are included. Finally,
given Brazil's current preoccupation with the balance of payments impact of
imported petroleum products, the estimated savings in vehicle operating costs
were converted into petroleum import savings. Savings in the three cities
appraised by the Bank are equivalent to import savings of 48,200 barrels of



- 43 -
crude oil per year, which at current prices (US$33 per barrel) represents a
saving of US$1.6 million per year.  Extrapolating to the ten cities t:hat will
be included in the project yields savings of US$10.5 million per year.  This
would represent approximately 0.6% of the estimated deficit on the Brazilian
1980 trade account and demonstrates the very positive fuel conservation and
import savings that can result from relatively simple measures.
Approach to Appraisal
6.02      The appraisal criteria adopted reflect the two key objectives of
the project:  (a) to bring about urban transport improvements as economically
as possible; and (b) to channel as many of the benefits as possible to
the urban poor. Thus, the performance of subproject components in terms of
economic indicators was examined in the context of these objectives. Some
elements presented by the local authorities were rejected, even though they
had high indicators of economic efficiency, when satisfactory evidence was not
presented that a sufficient number of alternatives had been studied to ensure
the efficient use of resources or when there was not a clear indication of
direct benefits to the urban poor.
6.03      Economic benefits were calculated in terms of quantified savings in
vehicle operating costs and travel times. Given the objective of creating
benefits for public transport users (i.e. the urban poor), it is believed that
travel time savings are an important indicator of the extent to which benefits
are actually realized by bus passengers. They were, therefore, included in
all the economic benefit calculations. It is commonly accepted that savings
in travel time may be valued at 30% of the average wage of the beneficiaries.
To avoid discriminating against projects that channel benefits directly to
poor beneficiaries (and in favor of projects that benefit high-income car
drivers), the convention was adopted of valuing all time savings, irrespective
of to whom they may accrue, at 30% of the average wage rate of the economically
active population for each city. The costs used in the economic analyses were
the economic investment costs plus additional costs of system operation and
maintenance.
B. AGLURB Subprojects
6.04      Table 6.1 shows the net present values (NPV), l/ the beneEit cost
ratios (B/C), 1/ and the internal rates of return (IRR) for the three AGLURB
subprojects appraised by the Bank.
6.05      Distrito Federal.  Because of the high dependence of the population
of the Distrito Federal satellite cities on public transport and the high
demographic growth rate of these cities, all of the subproject components are
strongly justified, even with the inclusion of relatively high costs for
road drainage, especially in Ceilandia and Gama. Erosion is a serious problem
in all of the satellite cities and the drainage included in this project
covers only that which is essential to protect the roads. However, to
1/   Calculated using a discount rate of 11%, which is the Bank's estimate
of the opportunity cost of capital in Brazil.



- 44 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC RESULTS
NPV                         IRR
(Cr$m)           B/C           %
A.  DISTRITO FEDERAL                      5,258.6          9.1          50+
1.  Ceilandia                       3,160.6          12.6          50+
2.  Taguatinga                      1,236.7           9.7          50+
3.  Gama                               702.7          5.1          50+
4.  Planaltina                          41.6          5.0          50+
5.  Brazlandia                          43.8          7.6          50+
6.  Sobradinho                          73.6          2.7          34
B.  BAIXADA SANTISTA                      2,744.4          6.0          50+
1.  Av. Tupiniquins                   295.6           9.7          50+
2.  Av. Santos Dumont                1,833.1         26.1          50+
3.  Bus route improvements             347.1          5.5          50+
4.  Traffic System Management          183.9          2.6          34
5.  Intermodal Terminal-V.
de Carvalho                       15.0          1.3          15
6.  Bus Lanes and Shelters              43.5          1.3          15
7.  Public Passenger Terminals          26.2          1.6          20
C.  SAO LUIS                                540.5          3.2          50+
TOTAL                          8,543.5          6.9          50+
complement this component, works for more complete, basin-wide drainage works
are being programmed by the Distrito Federal Government. Under the unfavor-
able hypothesis that these works might not be completed, the expected drain-
age component life could be reduced from 20 to 10 years. In this sensitivity
test, the benefit-cost ratio is reduced from 9.1 to 6.4, but the IRR still
exceeds 50%.
6.06      Baixada Santista.  The economic indicators for the Baixada Santista
are very high, primarily because of the benefits of improving the Av. Santos
Dumont and Av. Tupiniquins transport corridors. All of the project elements
have an expected economic life of 20 years, except for elements 3, 4 and 6,
which have an economic life of 5 years. The level of complexity of transport
planning in the Baixada Santista is high. To be successful, not only must
there be good coordination among the five municipalities, but also the AGLURB
Subproject elements must be integrated with other projects currently planned
or under construction. In consideration of these project risks, an unfavorable
hypothesis involving 20% increases in costs and 20% reductions in benefits
was introduced to provide a sensitivity test. The results do not affect the
feasibility of the subproject components: the overall benefit-cost ratio
falls to 6.4 and the IRR remains above 50%. However, two individual components
(Intermodal Terminal at Vicente de Carvalho and Bus Lanes and Shelters) show



- 45 -
negative results under the sensitivity test with IRR's falling to 9%. Con-
sidering that these elements are strongly tied to the Av. Santos Dumont
element, with remarkably high economic indicators, and that their benefits
are entirely directed to the users of public transport, the risk that these
elements may not fully attain the expected results is acceptable.
6.07      Sao Luis.  The Sao Luis subproject was treated differently in
terms of economic analysis. This reflects the extreme poverty of the city,
the weakness of local capacity to prepare projects, and the paucity of
available  data.  Since it was unrealistic to expect the local data and
institutions to support a disaggregated analysis, the Sao Luis subproject
components were analyzed as a package. This included, exceptionally, all
the costs of the institutional development that will be necessary if the
subproject is to be successful. Given the simple works that are included,
and the risk of poor maintenance, project life was estimated at five years.
Even under these conditions, the subproject is strongly justified with an IRR
greater than 50%.  Taking account of the implementation risks in Sao Luis,
an extreme sensitivity test was performed, under which costs were increased by
50% while benefits fell by 50%. Even under these assumptions the project has
a positive NPV, a B/C of 1.1, and an IRR of 13%. I/ The high rates of return
reflect the extreme neglect of the urban transport system in Sao Luis over
many years.
C. PROPAV Subproject
6.08      Since the PROPAV Subproject consists of the development of a new
program, the roads that will be paved have not been identified.  Thus,
the economic justification of the PROPAV Subproject is based on experience in
similar situations.  Under the First Urban Transport Project, paving programs
were estimated to yield IRR's of 23-50% in Curitiba, 67% in Belo Horizonte,
and 25% in Salvador. Under the Medium-Sized Cities Project, a paving project
in Campina Grande gave an IRR of 36%. Additional evidence on the results that
can be expected for this type of paving comes from the EMTU-SP Economic
Feasibility Study of 800 km of bus routes proposed for paving in greater Sao
Paulo. Traffic forecasts were based on locally calibrated relationships and
the economic cost and benefit calculations included detailed construLction
costs (including design and supervision), changes in maintenance costs,
changes in vehicle operating costs, and travel time savings. Of the 242
segments analyzed, totaling 800 km, 95% were economically justified (i.e. had
IRRs greater than 11%); 26% had IRRs in excess of 100%. The results from the
PROPAV Subproject are expected to be similar. To ensure economic feasibility,
only subproject components with IRR's greater than 11% would be accepted for
Bank financing (see para. 5.11).
6.09      An important element in the justification of the PROPAV Subproject
is its complementarity to the institutional subproject. PROPAV wil:L constitute
a test of EBTU's capacity to operate a program lending operation, including
1/   Project benefits in Sao Luis do not include travel time savings or
savings in operational and maintenance costs to cars or trucks..



- 46 -
the development of project evaluation guidelines and criteria, their applica-
tion, and the supervision of the subproject components. For this reason,
several steps in the development and execution of the subproject have been
left to EBTU. While this involves some risks (see para. 6.15), it is important
that EBTU be given the opportunity to demonstrate that it is capable of taking
diverse experience and moulding it into a coherent program (with an explicit
manual) that it then operates efficiently. Thus, in addition to the direct
benefits to the poor users of public transport, the PROPAV Subproject will
also provide important benefits in terms of EBTU's institutional development.
D. Impact on the Urban Poor
6.10      The approach used to estimate the poverty impact of the project was
to estimate for each component the proportion of benefits channeled directly
to people who are considered to be in poverty according to the Bank's guide-
lines. For Brazil, the Bank's relative urban poverty guideline of one-third
of national per capita income (adjusted for urban/rural differences) is
equivalent to a family income of three times the minimum wage. This is the
income level commonly accepted in Brazil as the cut-off point for families in
poverty. In mid-1980, the threshold was equivalent to an annual per capita
income of $550. The estimates of the urban poverty impact for the project
depend on the city and the type of investment. It is important to note that
these smaller cities do not generally have the extensive, computerized trans-
port models that are available in the metropolitan regions. Thus, it is more
difficult to discriminate benefits accurately by income group. The following
assumptions were made in calculating the urban poverty impact. Given the
objective of the project to channel benefits to the urban poor, many of the
subproject components are located exclusively in poor areas (defined as areas
in which 70% of households have incomes below three minimum salaries). These
components are deemed to have a poverty impact of 100% and amount to about 20%
of the project's infrastructure costs. The PROPAV Subproject also falls
totally into this category. Other components, such as bus lanes and shelters,
generate benefits only to public transport users. In these cases, the poverty
impact was estimated as the percentage of bus riders that fall within the
poverty target group. For components, such as road widening, that produce
benefits for both public and private transport users, the poverty impact was
estimated as the proportion of estimated benefits going to public transport
adjusted by the proportion of public transport users that are poor. The
results are shown in Table 6.2.
6.11      Since the criteria for selection of roads to be paved under the
PROPAV Subproject specify roads in poor areas (i.e., those in which 70% of
families have incomes below three minimum salaries), the benefits from the
subproject will have an urban poverty impact of 100%.
6.12      To summarize the results on urban poverty impact and to obtain
an overall poverty impact for the project as a whole, a weighted average
was calculated, reflecting the relative sizes of the different investments.
For this purpose, the average AGLURB results were extrapolated to the remain-
ing seven cities; the AGLURB and PROPAV results were applied to the total
subproject costs, including technical assistance; and no urban poverty impact



- 47 -
Table 6.2: POVERTY IMPACT
Project             Poverty Impact          Project             Poverty Impact
Distrito Federal                             Baixada Santista
Braziandia                   100%           Av. Tupiniquins               38%
Ceilandia                    100%           Av. Santos Dumont             38%
Taguatinga                    46%           Bus Route Improvements       100%
Gama                          46%           Traffic Scheme                78%
Sobradinho                    46%           Terminals                     78%
Planaltina                   100%           Suburban Facilities           78%
Average:   58%                              Average:   74%
Sao Luis
Historical Center             92%
Center-Anil Corridor          92%
Area of influence            100%
Average:   96%
was imputed to the Institutional Subproject. The result is an estimate of
the proportion of total project costs that generate direct benefits to the
urban poor: 75%. This figures illustrates the potential of urban transport
projects to simultaneously promote efficiency, through improving urban trans-
port systems,and equity, through channeling a substantial proportion of
benefits to the urban poor.
E. Risks
6.13      Two types of risk exist that might reduce the effectiveness of the
project. The first concerns EBTU's capacity to appraise seven cities and super-
vise ten (plus five under the First Urban Transport Project) and execute the
PROPAV subproject at the same time as it undertakes institutional reforms. The
second concerns the capacity of the cities to execute their individual sub-
components.
EBTU's Capacity
6.14      AGLURB Subprojects.  EBTU has both to appraise and supervise the
AGLURB projects. While it has had considerable experience with these activ-
ities, it has yet to demonstrate that it is fully capable of carryLng them
out. Should they fail to carry out the appraisals adequately, the subprojects
in seven cities would be delayed and would suffer cost overruns. :[f they fail
to supervise the subprojects adequately, it is likely that the projects will
fall behind schedule, again resulting in cost overruns.  In addition, inade-
quate supervision may mean that poor designs are approved or that subprojects
are not constructed to adequate standards. Externally, inadequate performance
on appraisal or supervision would mean that the Bank would have to increase
its own supervision inputs to compensate. To minimize these risks, the Bank
has worked intensively with EBTU on appraisal and supervision procedures.



- 48 -
This experience has been formalized in the EBTU Project Manual. Thus, in
methodological terms, the procedures to be followed are clearly established.
In practical terms, the nomination of a program coordinator for each city will
centralize responsibility for these activities. In addition, the creation of
properly staffed program divisions will create blocks of expertise that will
be devoted to a specific group of projects. In this way, it is expected that
past problems due to fragmented responsibility and diffused expertise will be
greatly reduced. Finally, EBTU, in its recent work with the Bank, has tried
to increase the number of staff with experience on Bank-financed projects.
Overall, the new procedures and training will simplify the technical work and
increase technical productivity. On balance, EBTU should be able to do more,
higher quality technical work with the same staff. The above steps reduce the
risks to an acceptable level.
6.15      PROPAV.  The major risks associated with the PROPAV component are
that the guidelines and criteria set out in the PROPAV Manual will not be
consistently applied. Failure to select subproject components correctly could
result in a misallocation of resources. Failure to supervise adequately
could result in delays and cost overruns. EBTU has spent considerable time
evaluating its experience under the first project and has incorporated this
experience into the PROPAV Manual. It is also important to note that, although
the Subproject encompasses a large number of kilometers (and dollars), it
requires the repetitive application of simple procedures in similar circum-
stances. Thus, the range of expertise required is limited and, once learned,
should be easy to apply. Finally, the President of EBTU believes strongly in
the program approach and will give the subproject considerable support.
6.16      Bank staff have reviewed the PROPAV Manual and agreed with EBTU on
its content. Bank staff will also review the final designs of the first
subproject component in each of the first three cities. EBTU would certify to
the Bank that subsequent components were consistent with the agreed criteria.
Although this procedure entails some risks, it is important to give this level
of responsibility to EBTU if PROPAV is to constitute an adequate test of its
capacity. Overall, taking into account EBTU's experience, the nature of
the components involved, and the procedures that have been established, the
potential benefits--both to the urban poor and in terms of institutional
development--justify accepting the risks.
6.17      Institutional Subproject.  Apart from appraisal and supervision, EBTU
also has to implement the institutional subproject. The main risk is that it
will take longer than expected for EBTU to operate efficiently under the new
organization and procedures. The establishment of institutional change as a
subproject reduces this risk. A management group has been established, the
changes are clearly defined, targets have been set, and indicators of success
are being established. Thus, the risk that the subproject will not be success-
fully implemented are acceptable.
Local Capacity
6.15      Under past Bank-financed projects, local agencies have frequently
fallen behind project execution schedules. This is partly the result of local
deficiencies and partly the result of over-optimistic programming. In this
project, the subproject components have been more carefully tailored to local



- 49 -
execution capacity (specifically in Sao Luis). In addition, subproject imple-
mentation schedules reflect the experience under the first project and are more
realistic. Finally, EBTU is now more efficient at reviewing designs and super-
vising projects, including identifying and resolving problems.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      There are no special conditions of effectiveness.
7.02      At negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a) EBTU will, by June 30, 1981, reorganize its technical and
operations directorates, strengthen its Planning Advisory Unit,
and create a Program Coordination Unit (SAR 5.03; LA 3.02(a)); 1/
(b) EBTU will not, during the period of project execution, sub-
stantially change the Project Manual without the concurrence
of the Bank (SAR 5.05; LA 3.11);
(c) EBTU will, by December 31, 1981, provide the Bank with the names
of two additional AGLURB cities that are satisfactory to the
Bank (SAR 3.05; LA 3.04(a));
(d) EBTU will apply the EBTU Project Manual (Appraisal Section)
(i) to the seven AGLURB cities not appraised by the Bank by
September 30, 1982 (SAR 5.05; LA 3.04(b)); and (ii) to at least
55% of the projects proposed for financing to EBTU for 1982,
60% for 1983, and 70% for 1984 (SAR 5.08; LA 3.04(c));
(e) EBTU will, by December 31, 1982, enter into contractual agreements
for subproject execution in the seven AGLURB cities not appraised by
the Bank (SAR 5.17; LA 3.05);
(f)  EBTU will apply the EBTU Project Manual (Supervision Section) to
this project, the First Urban Transport Project, the Second Urban
Transport Project, and all other EBTU projects in state capitals
(SAR 5.10; LA 3.09);
(g) EBTU will use the PROPAV Manual for the PROPAV program (SAR 5.11;
LA 3.10) and will annually review with the Bank its experience
with the PROPAV program (SAR 5.13; LA 3.10);
(h) EBTU will not substantially change the PROPAV Manual without
the concurrence of the Bank (SAR 5.11; LA 3.11);
(i) EBTU will maintain a project coordinator for this project (SAR 5.01;
LA 4.04);
(j)  EBTU will, in the first quarter of each year from 1982 to 1985,
submit to the Bank a report on its activities for the previous
year and subsequently discuss this report with the Bank (SAR
5.20; LA 4.02);
1/   The numbers in parentheses indicate the relevant paragraphs in the staff
appraisal report (SAR) and the relevant clause in the Loan Agreement (LA).



- 50 -
(k)  EBTU will inform the Bank of any proposed major transport investment
in the cities participating in the AGLURB Subproject during the
project implementation period, provide information on the impact
of such investments on the Bank project, and give the Bank an
adequate opportunity to comment on the investment (execution of any
major investment that would adversely affect any subproject would
constitute grounds for suspension of disbursements for that sub-
project) (SAR 5.09; LA 5.03 and 6.01(b)(iii));
(1)  EBTU will, by June 30, 1981, establish a monitoring and
evaluation program satisfactory to the Bank for the project
(SAR 5.22; LA 3.12);
(m)  EBTU will, by December 31, 1982, complete the studies included
in the project and, following review of the project studies with
the Bank, amend the Project and PROPAV manuals as appropriate
to reflect the results of the studies (SAR 3.37; LA 3.14(a) and
(c)); and
(n)  EBTU will (i) following review of the results of the maintenance
study with the Bank, prepare a maintenance policy, and employ
its best efforts to implement the policy (SAR 3.37; LA 3.14(a)
and (b)) and (ii) following the completion of the study of alterna-
tive terms for passing Bank loan funds to the cities, propose to
the Bank any changes in these terms that may be necessary (SAR 3.37;
LA 3.05(a)).
7.03      The following constitute conditions of disbursement for the proposed
loan:
(a)  Bank approval of (i) the detailed training program and consultants'
work program will constitute a condition of disbursement for the
institutional subproject (SAR 5.03; LA Sch. 1);
(b)  Disbursements for each of the Distrito Federal, the Baixada Santista,
and Sao Luis will be conditional upon the signing of a contractual
agreement that is acceptable to the Bank SAR 5.17; LA Sch. 1);
(c)  Disbursements for each of the AGLURB cities not appraised by the
Bank would be conditional upon (i) acceptance by the Bank of an
appraisal report prepared by EBTU (SAR 5.05; LA Sch. 1); and
(ii) the signing of a contractual agreement that is acceptable to
the Bank (SAR 5.17; LA Sch. 1); and
(d)  Disbursements for the PROPAV subproject would be subject to (i) Bank
approval of the final engineering designs for the first subproject
component in each of the first three cities and (ii) certification
by EBTU that (a) each subproject component is consistent with
the PROPAV Manual and (b) the relevant contractual agreement has
been signed.
7.04.      Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$90 million to EBTU for a period of 15 years, including
a grace period of three years.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
P'age 1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
City-Specific Characteristics
A. Distrito Federal
1.        The Distrito Federal was created by law in 1957 and inaugurated in
1960. Its main objective was to orient Brazil's development toward the
interior, decreasing the dependence on traditional cities concentrated along
the coast. In some respects, it has been successful in attaining this
objective; the Center-West region's urban population has grown significantly
faster than the national average, largely due to such growth centers as
Distrito Federal and Goiania. It is a city dominated by the federal govern-
ment, and as the role and size of Brazil's central government have increased,
the Distrito Federal has experienced spectacular growth, its urban population
increasing from 127,000 in 1960 to 524,000 in 1970, and to an estimated
955,000 in 1978. Brasilia is a planned city, but its planned area, the
Plano Piloto, has not been able to accommodate all of the people wh1o have come
to it, and poorer people have had to seek shelter in the satellite cities,
which have largely grown in a disorganized way, with inadequate infrastructure.
2.        Population and Employment.  Table 1 presents the distribution of the
Distrito Federal's urban population growth. Most striking is the relatively
less rapid population growth of Brasilia, which grew at 7.8% p.a. during the
1960-78 period, while the Satellite Cities grew at 16.5%. The Distrito
Federal's population is highly dependent on Brasilia, particularly the Plano
Piloto, for its employment. The tertiary sector absorbed 78% of Distrito
Federal's labor force in 1977, with commerce accounting for 14% of this sector,
and public administration for 21%. The secondary sector accounted for 19%
of employment, with civil construction (82%) dominating. The Distrito Federal's
employment revolves around the public administration apparatus, although
considerable diversification in employment has developed in support of it and
civil servants who live there.
3.        Urban Poverty.  The Distrito Federal's income is highly concentrated
in Brasilia, especially the Plano Piloto area, where most of the professionally
qualified civil servants live. While 39% of all Distrito Federal households
have incomes of less than 3 minimum salaries (MS), only 8.5% of Plano Piloto
inhabitants fall in this category, compared with 53% in the Satellite Cities.
Table 2 presents the income distribution of Distrito Federal by geographic
area.
4.        Transport Sector and Rationale for the Project.  Taken as a whole,
the Distrito Federal is not typical of Brazil, since automobiles account for
46% of total trips. However, in a separate analysis of the Satellite Cities,
it is found that 75% of total passenger trips are made by bus, with the Plano
Piloto attracting 82% of the 1.2 million trips per day. Thus, inhabitants of
the Satellite Cities are highly dependent on public transport to aind from the



TABLE 1: DISTRIBUTION OF DISTRITO FEDERAL'S URBAN POPULATION GROWTH
YEAR      BRASILIA      TAGUATINGA      CEILANDIA     SOBRADINHO      PLANALTINA       GAMA      BRAZILANDIA       TOTAL
1960        89.7           26.1             -             8.5             2.9            -           n.a.          127.2
(%)        (70.5)         (20.5)                         (6.7)           (2.3)                                     (100)
1964       130.8           68.9             -            19.2             4.2            -           n.a.          223.1
(%)        (58.6)         (30.9)                         (8.6)           (1.9)                                     (100)
1970       192.8          107.3          84.2            39.5            18.5          72.4           9.6          524.3
(%)        (36.8)         (20.5)         (16.1)          (7.5)           (3.5)        (13.8)         (1.8)         (100)
1975       285.6          149.9          105.8           50.8            32.8         110.7          15.1          750.7
(%)        (38.0)         (20.0)         (14.1)         (16.8)           (4.4)        (14.7)         (2.0)         (100)
1978       344.9          184.0         182.5            57.4            39.9         128.2          18.3          955.3
(%)        (36.1)         (19.3)         (19.1)          (6.0)           (4.2)        (13.4)         (1.9)         (100)
Source: EBTU, "DISTRITO FEDERAL - AGLURB APPRAISAL REPORT", 1980, p. 14
Notes:- n.a. = not available
- The rural population of Distrito Federal has been small: 14.5 thousand (10.9% of total population) in 1960;
47.7 thousand (4.8%) in 1978.
- Brasilia is composed of the Plano Piloto, and the cities of Nicleo Bandeirante and Guarg.
".3>



-53-                                    ANNFX_1
Page 3
TABLE 2: DISTRITO FEDERAL HOUSEHOLD INCOME
DISTRIBUTION IN % (1975)
Income Group in                      Plano           Satellite             Distrito
Minimum Salaries (MS)               Piloto              Cities              Federal
0 < MS < 1                          0.8                7.2                  5.3
1 < MS < 3                          7.7               45.6                 34.1
3 < MS < 6                         14.5               27.8                 23.7
6 < MS   9                        13.5               10.1                 11.2
9 < MS012                          13.5                4.9                  7.5
12 c MS <15                          8.7                1.7                  3.8
15   MS 18                         10.5                1.3                  4.1
18 <-MS <21                          8.4                0.7                  3.0
MS )21                         22.4                0.7                  7.3
Source: EBTU, "DISTRITO FEDERAL - AGLURB APPRAISAL REPORT",
1980, p. 20.
Note:    The Plano Piloto had 71% of the Brasilia population in 1975.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Plano Piloto Area. Transport infrastructure between the Satellite Cities and
the Plano Piloto is generally adequate, with roads having capacity compatible
with the demand. However, within the Satellite Cities, access to the inter-
city corridors is deficient, and this is the area on which the AGLURB sub-
project is concentrated.
5.        The Distrito Federal subproject contains elements in the satellite
cities of Ceilandia, Taguatinga, Brazlandia, Gama, Planaltina and Sobradinho
(see Map IBRD 15236). The objectives are to improve: (a) the operational effi-
ciency of bus services within the cities; and (b) the accessibility of passen-
gers to bus services. Approximately 75% of person trips made by mechanized
modes by the population of the satellite cities of the Distrito Federal are
made by bus. Over 50% of trips are journeys to and from work, mainly in the
Plano Piloto of Brasilia, which represents the principal area of employment.
Therefore, the traffic pattern in the satellite cities exhibits conventional
suburban or dormitory-town journey-to-work characteristics, with morning and
evening traffic peaks. Some traffic congestion is present during peak periods,
but in general, it is neither extremely severe nor prolonged. During off-peak
periods, few traffic congestion or delay problems exist. However, the contin-
uing spatial and population growth of the cities and the inadequate transport
infrastructure work together to reduce the level of service of the bus system.
In some of the satellite cities, the surface water drainage system is incom-
plete, road surfaces have deteriorated, the structural pavement has been
damaged, and verges and road edges have been eroded. In other locations,
roads to developing areas of the cities are unpaved and bus operation can only
take place in dry weather. The cities also have an abnormally high pedestrian
accident rate due to lack of footways and pedestrian crossing facilities on
the major bus routes. It is the aim of the subproject to correct these
deficiencies, thereby improving the level of service of the bus system and
reducing travel times and bus operating costs within the cities. The physical
works which will be employed to achieve these aims are essentially the same
for each satellite city, the extent of each intervention varying according to
local circumstances.
Detailed Features
6.        Drainage Component.  Provision of surface water drainage is concen-
trated in the cities of Ceilandia and Gama with some minor works in Taguatinga
and Sobradinho. Surface water drainage systems have been designed by the
Distrito Federal's civil works agency, NOVACAP, for each of the satellite
cities. A policy of progressive implementation is followed with drainage
measures introduced in parallel with road paving/surfacing. Thus, the works
under the subproject will complete or complement existing or on-going drainage
proposals, funded primarily by BNH. The majority are now in progress. The
detailed design of the drainage components included in the project has been
completed. The design standards, while not generous, are appropriate for the
circumstances, particularly as the component forms an integral part of a
committed system. The major function of the drainage system is to ensure that
road paving and surfacing is protected from erosion and deterioration. No
significant problems of implementation are expected and cost estimates are
realistic. No acquisition of land or property is involved.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
7.        Paving, Resurfacing, and Curbs/Gutters Component.  Paving and
resurfacing of roads is included in each of the six satellite cities (with
the exception of paving in Brazlandia, the smallest of the cities) and
are concentrated on existing and potential bus routes. Paving includes both
the provision of new paving and structural repairs to existing roads. Resur-
facing is used where the existing road base has not deteriorated. (Curbs and
gutters will be provided where necessary to complement the paving and resur-
facing.)  The extent of the works is:
City               Paving (km)             Resurfacing (m2)
Ceilandia             13.6                     238,000
Brazlandia             --                        4,000
Gama                   0.2                     148,000
Planaltina             0.8                      15,000
Sobradinho             8.8                     128,000
Taguatinga             5.0                     136,000
The resurfacing and pavement repair program was based on an early 1980
survey of the condition of the network. No land or property acquisition is
envisaged. The majority of roads in the paving/resurfacing subcomponent are
of 7m carriage-way with one lane in each direction. One scheme to expand from
a single to a dual carriage-way has been included on the main bus route axis
through Ceilandia where bus flows are currently over 200/hour in each direction
in the morning and evening peaks and the location of a new, local bus terminal
will further increase the flow. The designs for this subcomponent are adequate,
although the geometric design of junctions with cross roads should be reviewed
critically at the detailed design stage. The major effect of the road paving/
resurfacing subcomponent program will be to reduce bus operating costs and
allow bus re-routing to serve passengers better and improve the level of
service within the cities.
8.        Footway, Bus Bay, and Passenger Shelter Component.  These facilities
are included in each of the six satellite cities, with the exceptions of
bus bays in Taguatinga and passenger shelters in Brazlandia. The locations
for the provision of footways are not confined to bus routes, since foot-ways
that penetrate areas adjacent to bus routes will improve passenger accessibil-
ity to bus services. Bus bays and passenger shelter locations will be defined
at detailed design stage, based on a detailed survey of bus stop locations.
These elements are at the primary design stage, but the standards to be
employed are defined and are, in view of the simple nature of the components,
satisfactory. The aim is to improve the accessibility and convenience of
services for bus passengers. The footways are considered particularly impor-
tant in achieving this aim in view of the virtually impassable grolnd condi-
tions during rainy periods. The bus bays will assist bus performances on the
7m wide roads by preventing delays to buses that do not have to stop.
9.        Traffic Control (Traffic Signals, Roadside Signs, Road Marking and
Street Lighting) Component.  A number of minor traffic management measures are
included in each city to improve traffic control and safety and to enhance



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
road network capacity. Road signing and marking has been included only on bus
routes. Traffic signals are included at important intersections, taking
particular account of the difficulties that pedestrians experience in crossing
roads. Street lighting provision under the project has been much reduced from
the original proposals and is included only on bus routes within the satellite
city limits and not on approach or peripheral routes. The standards to be
employed for roadside signing and marking will follow the Transit Department
(DETRAN) standards used in the Distrito Federal. For traffic signal instal-
lations, vehicle actuated installations with independent on-site controllers
will be employed. The design will be in accordance with DETRAN standards.
Street lighting installations will follow the standard systems employed in the
remainder of the Distrito Federal with the objective of minimizing maintenance
costs through standardization. The modest traffic control measures included
under this subproject will improve capacity at a low cost, particularly on the
central axes of Taguatinga and Ceilandia that have particularly heavy peak
hour traffic. It is also anticipated that traffic control measures and
pedestrian crossing facilities will assist in reducing pedestrian accidents.
No significant problems of design or implementation are foreseen but it will
be necessary to ensure integrated design of junction modifications and the
design of signing and marking.
10.       Local Institutional Development Component.  The subproject will
also include a component aimed at improving the skills of staff associated
with the urban transport system. A management unit is to be created in the
Secretariat of Roads and Works to oversee the execution of this project. The
unit will be responsible for the control of the project and will review
designs, bidding documents, and contract awards, supervise the execution of
the project, provide coordination between executing agencies and with EBTU,
and prepare quarterly reports. Training will be provided to the management
unit as well as to staff in the planning and executing agencies and to key
participants in the transport system, such as bus drivers, supervisors,
maintenance men, and the police.  This component will also include simple
equipment (such as time clocks) for monitoring and control of the frequency of
bus services.
B. Baixada Santista
11.       The Baixada Santista is a complex conurbation, composed of five
municipalities: Santos (the central element), Sao Vicente, Guaruja,
Cubatao, and Praia Grande. Economically, it has many functions which are
complementary to the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo, principally the major
port of Santos and the petrochemical complex of Cubatao. It is also a major
recreation area for Sao Paulo, with high flows of people on weekends and
holidays travelling to its beaches and related facilities. These functions
have caused major investments in improvement of the accessibility between
Sao Paulo and the Baixada Santista, principally the Anchieta and Imigrantes
Highway projects. However, these investments are designed to improve acces-
sibility between regions and have not been complemented by improvements within
the Baixada.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
12.       Population and Employment.  The distribution of the Baixada Santista's
urban population growth is presented in Table 3. The rate of popu;lation growth
(3.5% p.a.) may be considered low, when compared to Brazil's urban areas a
whole.  This is particularly the case in Santos, which is the traditional
center but has topographic barriers to growth, and Cubatao, which is an
industrial area with extremely high levels of air pollution. The population
growth areas should be Guaruja, Praia Grande, and Sao Vicente, with growth
rates predicted at 5.4%, 6.4% and 4.0% p.a., respectively.
13.       In 1970, 35% of total employment was offered in the industrial
sector, 30% in services and 35% in commercial activities. Jobs were geograph-
ically quite concentrated: 47% of industrial employment was locat(ed in
Cubatao and 37% in Santos; and 78% of all non-industrial jobs were concentrated
in Santos, which provided 64% of total employment. Thus, while residential
locations have shown a pattern of decentralization, employment has not. The
result is increasing pressure on the transport system.
14.       Urban Poverty.  Table 4 presents the distribution of income.  It is
estimated that some 60% of Baixada Santista families have incomes of less than
three minimum salaries, with poverty more prevalent in the peripheral cities.
15.       Transport Sector and Rationale for the Project.  The transport
system of the Baixada Santista is relatively complex, including road, rail,
and water based modes. Public transport passenger trips have been increasing
at a rate of 4.5% p.a. In 1977, buses transported 90% of public transport
passengers, ferries transported 9%, and rail accounted for only 1%. The
average family income of bus passengers is approximately three minimum salaries.
Average journey to work times vary greatly, from 21 minutes for the residents
of Santos to 80 minutes for residents of the Samarita area of Sao Vicente and
132 minutes for the Bertioga district of Guaruja. Thus, the most serious
transport problems are concentrated in the low-income, peripheral areas. In
1979, the 1,735 buses competed for road space with 9,052 trucks and 67,794
automobiles, with the automobile fleet growing, since 1977, at the rate of
9.5% p.a.
16.       This subproject includes components in the five municipalities
that make up the Baixada Santista: Santos, San Vicente, Cubatao, Praia
Grande, and Guaruja (see Map IBRD 15237). The subproject is aimed at
improving (a) the linkages between the cities and (b) traffic conditions
within the cities, both giving emphasis to public transport operations.
Detailed Features - Baixada Santista
17.       Santos Traffic Management and Bus Facilities Component.  Santos is
the largest municipality in the Baixada Santista. The road network is the
most developed and peak period traffic congestion occurs, particularly in the
historic center, on the northern approach road to the central area, and at
specific junctions within the municipality. Bus flows are high particularly
on the northern approach road and problems are experienced with illegal
curb-side parking which reduces capacity. The traffic management and engineer-
ing measures are aimed at improving the efficiency of the existing road



-58-                                    ANNEX 1
Page 8
TABLE 3: DISTRIBUTION OF BAIXADA SANTISTA'S URBAN GROWTH
(Observed 1970, and estimated 1977/1985)
(000)
% Growth p.a.
1970           1977           1985           1970 - 85
Santos                    345.0          422.8          515.1               2.7
(%)                     (56.7)         (52.7)         (50.1)
Sio Vicente               115.9          166.7          206.9               4.0
(%)                     (19.1)         (20.8)         (20.1)
Guaruja                    90.5          133.9           199.8              5.4
(%)                     (14.5)         (16.7)         (19.4)
Cubat'ao                   37.1           45.2           55.9               2.9
(%)                      (6.1)          (5.6)          (5.4)
Praia Grande                19.7           33.4           49.9              6.4
(%)                      (3.2)          (4.2)          (4.9)
TOTAL                     608.2          802.0        1,027.6               3.5
(%)                      (100)          (100)         (100)
Source:  EBTU, "BAIXADA SANTISTA - AGLURB APPRAISAL REPORT", 1980, p. 11.



- 59 -                                     ANNEX 1
Page 9
TABLE 4: BAIXADA SANTISTA SALARY DISTRIBUTION IN %
1970
o04MS4 3         3 4 MS  5        5 4MS C10         MS :10
Santos                     66.8              22.2             7.7              3.3
Sao Vicente                78.6              16.8             3.7              0.9
Guaruja                    89.0               9.3             1.4              0.3
Cubatao                    83.7              14.0             2.0              0.3
Praia Grande               89.3               8.2             1.9              0.6
TOTAL                      76.1              16.2             5.5              2.2
Note: Income groups are in intervals of Minimum Salaries (MS)
Source: FIBGE, "Indicadores Sociais para ireas Urbanas", (Rio de Janeiro,
1977), p. 112.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10
infrastructure and bus fleet. The types of measures employed include: bus
streets; bus lanes (with-flow and contra-flow); pedestrian streets; junction
improvements by channelization and other means; improved and expanded traffic
signals and a traffic signal control system; traffic signing (roadside and
road marking); bus passenger shelters; and road surface and drainage improve-
ments (where necessary). The works constitute a new traffic circulation
plan for Santos. While the majority of the subcomponents will be concentrated
in the dense urban network of central Santos, a traffic signing subcomponent
has been included for the rest of Santos and for Sao Vicente. Critical
junction improvements are also included for five junctions outside the central
area of Santos, and for two in Sao Vicente. The component is at the prelim-
inary design stage. While the measures proposed are fairly conventional,
the final design and execution of such a program of inter-related works will
require careful planning, coordination and control.
18.       Avenida Santos Dumont Component.  The Avenida Santos Dumont is
the major road connection between the center of Guaruja and the densely
populated area of Vicente de Carvalho (all within the municipality of
Guaruja). The Avenida is a major bus route (1,900 to 2,255 buses/day are
estimated for 1983, the first year of operation) and provides a link between
Guaruja and the ferry terminal at Vicente de Carvalho which serves the center
of Santos and a future ferry service to Cubatao. The project involves the
widening of the existing 2-lane road to a 4-lane road over a distance of
5.1 km. To limit land acquisition and given the constraints imposed by a
parallel railroad, it is intended to carry out the works within the existing
right-of-way. As a consequence, it has been necessary to vary the cross
section of the road and although two lanes of 3.5 m width in each direction
will be provided throughout the length of the project, it will not always be
possible to provide a central median. All junctions are at-grade and important
traffic movements will be traffic signal controlled. Also included is the
construction of 2.7 km of 4 m wide cycle track parallel to the road to com-
plement an existing cycle path. Cycle use is intensive in the low-income
areas of Guaruja and many passengers use bicycles to get to the ferry terminal.
The proposal is at a preliminary design stage. During detailed design, some
modifications in junction design will be investigated. The project will be
constructed on the alluvial ground typical of the Baixada Santista. Detailed
soil condition investigations will be necessary to ensure the stability of
existing works (i.e., the existing carriageway and adjacent railway) during
and after construction and the future structural stability of the final
project.
19.       Terminals in Guaruja Component.  The objective is to improve terminal
facilities: (a) in Vicente de Carvalho; (b) at Vila Ligia; and (c) in the
central area of Guaruja. The ferry between Vicente de Carvalho and Santos is
currently used by 40,000 passengers per day, the majority of whom travel to
and from the terminal by bus or by bicycle. The project will improve bus
terminal facilities by the provision of bus bays and bus passenger shelters.
The facilities will be constructed on available land and are separated from
the ferry terminal by a rail track. Train frequency is not high, but because
of the slow passage of trains, passenger access across the track is prevented



- 61 -
ANNEX i
Page 11
for about 30% of the time during peak hours.  Thus, a footbridge is included
to reduce passenger waiting time and to maintain an even distribution of
passengers to the ferry.
20.       The Vila Ligia terminal currently serves 37,000 passengers per day
with 83 buses per peak hour. The existing infrastructure provides inadequate
parking, loading/unloading, and circulation space for the buses. A series of
bus stands and passenger shelters will be constructed in the Praca Nacoes
Unidas. The bus stops are currently on the periphery of the square and
congestion, for passengers and buses, occurs. It is intended to relocate the
stops to the center of the square and provide seven bus bays, passenger
waiting areas and shelters. A bus-only lane will be designated for entry/exist
to the terminal.
21.       In the central area of Guaruja, a particular problem of bus stop
congestion and traffic circulation has been identified. It is necessary
to reorganize the traffic circulation system in the central square to improve
passenger facilities through the provision of a 60-meter bus bay and bus
passenger shelters. No specific design problems are anticipated, although it
will be important to review the operational designs for the terminals. No
land acquisition is required.
22.       Suburban Transport Station and Pedestrian Footbridge Component.
This component comprises the Santos terminal for the river ferries from
Vicente de Carvalho and a train station for Jardim Casqueiro. The Santos
terminal for the ferry crossing is located near the Praca da Republica,
where a bus terminal is the destination for many of the ferry passengers. The
ferry is heavily used particularly during peak periods. Passengers boarding
or alighting from the ferry are required to cross a series of quayside railway
tracks and a quayside road to reach the Praca da Republica. Train services are
not frequent but, because of the type of service operated, the passage of each
train can take three minutes. Together with road traffic on the quayside road
and heavy truck traffic on the quay, this causes peak period passenger conges-
tion in the ferry terminal area. The component will include construction
of a new ferry terminal building and passenger footbridge over the quayside
railway and road to improve the terminal passenger flow and safety and reduce
passenger congestion and delay on the approaches to the terminal.
23.       The component will also provide an improved level of pub:Lic transport
service between Santos and the peripheral area of Jardim Casqueiro. It is
intended to make greater use of the existing rail track and rail bridge from
Jardim Casqueiro to the Santos/Sao Vicente island. (RFFSA has agreed to
operate one train per hour in each direction initially.) Since no terminal
facilities exist in the Jardim Casqueiro area, a simple train station will be
constructed together with a footbridge to connect the station to the surround-
ing area. The footbridge is necessary to allow passengers to cross the six-
lane Via Anchieta (the most heavily trafficked road in the Baixada Santista),
which separates the residential area from the railway. It is further proposed
to include a bicycle park with 600 places adjacent to the footbridge.



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12
24.       No specific design problems should occur with this component.
The ferry terminal footbridge has been designed with a 4m width. As passenger
flows grow with time, it may be necessary to consider special operating
characteristics (such as one-way peak-hour operation) to ensure that the
loading/unloading operations of the terminal building are maintained at an
efficient level. The rail station is a simple 200m platform, with a 60m
covered passenger waiting area, and basic facilities. No operational problems
are anticipated with the station or the associated footbridge.
25.       Widening of Avenida Tupiniquins Component.  The municipalities of
Sao Vicente and Praia Grande are separated by the Mar Pequeno and the transport
connection is currently provided by a road bridge of substandard width and
limited capacity. A new four-lane road bridge, together with immediate
approach roads, is under construction and will be completed in 1981. In order
to exploit fully the capacity of the new bridge and to integrate it into
the Praia Grande road network, it is necessary to widen the extension of
the approach road (Ave. Tupiniquins) from an existing two lanes to dual
2 lanes over a distance of 1.2 km. Thus, a route of consistent capacity
will be provided between the new bridge approach road and the existing dual
carriageway through Praia Grande. The component will be of conventional
design providing two 3.5 m lanes in each direction. Junctions will be at-grade
and traffic signals will be employed at important intersections. The component
is aligned over low lying ground which is subject to flooding and is thus
sited on a 2m embankment. Because of the ground conditions and the importance
of good drainage, it was recommended by the appraisal mission that a further
examination of the design should be made to confirm that the proposed project
could not be improved upon. The project requires the acquisition of 18,000 m2
of land; no residential property is involved, but the acquisition of one gas
filling station is required.
26.       Road Improvement and Expansion of Bus Routes (Sao Vicente) Component.
The component consists of improvements to four roads in Sao Vicente. The roads
are currently bus routes and will allow an expansion of existing bus services
and re-routing of other services to provide an improved level of service in
the poorer areas of Sao Vicente. Although the extent of the physical works
varies along each route, the type of work is essentially similar in each case
and consists of minor realignments, minor widening of the carriageway, con-
struction of new road sections to complete connections between existing roads,
paving of existing roads, footways, and drainage provisions. In one case, a
small bridge over a canal (20 m span) is required to enable a complementary
one-way pair of roads to be established on either side of the canal. The
improved roads will have two lanes in each direction. This is justified by
the proposed bus flows and the fact that all construction is scheduled to
occur within existing rights-of-way.
27.       The detailed traffic engineering design of the junctions should
be the subject of critical review at the detailed design stages, particularly
on the Av. Nacoes Unidas. An assessment was made of alternative pavement
design costs in Sao Vicente and it was concluded that local circumstances
favored the use of the concrete blocks proposed by the local agencies. No



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 13
unusual engineering problems are foreseen in the implementation of the
component. However, considerable bus route changes in Sao Vicente will be
required. It will be necessary to ensure that the complementary measure of
planning these proposals proceeds in parallel with the implementation
program for the roads.
28.       Local Institutional Component.  The five cities will establish
a joint project management unit (with a professional staff of eleven), which
will be responsible for supervising and coordinating project execution.
Training will be provided for the staff of each municipality in integrated
land-use/transport planning, transport system management, and trafEfic engineer-
ing to enable them to plan for future urban transport needs. The component
will also inclu-e data collection and analysis for evaluation and three
specific studies. technical-economic feasibility study of a strucitural public
transport network (mass transport); institutional structure to raltionalize
public transport operations; and a public transport fare policy study.
C. Sao Luis
29.       Capital of the State of Maranhao, Sao Luis is located on Sao Luis
Island, along with the Municipalities of Paco do Lumiar and Sao Jose do
Ribamar, forming an urban conglomerate strongly dominated by Sao Luis.
Historically, Sao Luis has played an important regional economic role, largely
due to its port, and this role should be revitalized in the near future,
since its port is expected to be a major transfer point for minerals and
equipment related to the huge Carajas project located in the neighboring State
of Para.
30.       Population and Employment.  In 1970, the Municipality of Sao Luis
contained 88% of the total and 95% of the urban population of Sao Luis Island.
Within the Municipality of Sao Luis, 77% of the population was urban in 1970.
Total Sao Luis population grew at 4.5% p.a. during the 1950-70 period, and
its participation in the State of Maranhao population grew from 7.6% in 1950
to 8.9% in 1970. The fragile economic base of Sao Luis is reflected by the
fact that in 1970, only 19% of total employment was in the secondary sector,
with 65% in the tertiary, and 16% in fishing and farming activities.
31.       Urban Poverty.  According to the FIBGE "Indicadores Sociais para
Areas Urbanas", in 1970 91.6% of the Sao Luis urban labor force had wages of
less than three minimum salaries. For 1980, a University of Maranhao study
estimates that the average urban wage of Sao Luis is 2.27 minimum salaries.
Thus, poverty in Sao Luis is broad and intense, making it one of the poorest
cities of Brazil.
32.       Transport Sector and Rationale for the Project.  The population of Sao
Luis is highly dependent on public transport, which is essentially limited to
buses. The number of passenger trips by bus increased from 55.4 million in
1973 to 79.0 million in 1978, a rate of 8% p.a. The city center is the major
destination of trips by the poorest population living in the fringe areas.



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 14
Bus travel presents a series of problems for the population, starting with
access to existing bus routes, requiring long walks, through mud and water
during the rainy season. Once on the bus route, trips are slow and unreliable
because of the precarious conditions of pavement and traffic management.
Finally, in the city center, there is a high degree of congestion, caused
primarily by narrow streets and keen competition between buses and automobiles.
33.       The objectives of the subproject in Sao Luis are to maximize the use
of the existing road network and to improve the level of service of the bus
system and in particular the penetration of bus routes into low-income areas.
To achieve these aims, the subproject consists of three components located in
the Historical Center, the corridor from the center to Anil, and the area of
influence of this corridor (see Map IBRD 15238). The Sao Luis subproject is
limited to projects related to this corridor. This is due partly to the
importance of the corridor and partly because of EBTU's judgement that the
local executing agencies would not have the capacity to implement the larger
subproject that was originally proposed.
34.       Historical Center Component.  The Historical Center of Sao Luis
(which dates from the seventeenth century) consists of a dense network of
small streets, often of limited width (6 m) and closely spaced junctions.
Frontage activity is mixed and consists of residences, commercial offices,
and retail premises. Parked vehicles and narrow streets combine to cause
problems of traffic and pedestrian circulation and safety. It is proposed to
effect improvements in traffic circulation and to discourage the entry of
private vehicles by: (a) the construction of peripheral car parks adjacent to
the central area at four locations; (b) the complementary introduction of a
rigorous policy of on-street parking control in the Historical Center, together
with some revisions to the traffic circulation plan; and (c) the construction
of two bus terminals on the fringes of the Historical Center. One terminal
would be funded under the subproject, at Praia Grande, with a present day use
of about 300 buses per day. In combination with the peripheral road already
largely constructed around the Historical Center (the final sections are under
construction), the component forms part of a comprehensive traffic management
policy. The aim of the component is to assist in the revitalization of the
Historical Center as the institutional, commercial, and service center of the
city and, of vital importance to this low-income city, to encourage tourism.
35.       The physical works involved in the parking areas and the bus terminal
are at the preliminary design stage and include all associated paving, footways,
drainage, traffic signs, and passenger shelters. No land acquisition is
involved. The traffic management arrangements for traffic and bus access to
and from the peripheral road for the car parks and bus terminal will require
careful design to avoid potential accident hazard and capacity problems.
Adequate land is available for satisfactory designs to be achieved. The
parking policy to be applied in the Historical Center is sound. However, as
with any parking scheme, there are potential problems of treatment of frontage
occupiers and residents and, subsequently, enforcement. As part of the
component, equipment will be provided to the traffic police to improve their
mobility and communications and to assist in enforcement of traffic regulations.



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Page 15
In the case of parking/loading requirements of street frontage businesses and
occupiers, it is proposed that a policy of nighttime servicing be adopted.
36.       Center-Anil Corridor Component.  Outside the central area of the city,
extensive development has taken place along the corridor that leads to Anil.
The corridor carries the major travel movements in the city (up to 80% of all
person trips use this corridor) along the principal roads Av. Franceses
and Av. Kennedy/Joao Pessoa. Bus flows are high along these routes (200
buses in each direction during the peak hour) and travel speeds are low in
peak periods. The capacity of the corridor is limited by (a) frequent junc-
tions; (b) substandard carriageway width for two buses, and (c) poor road
maintenance, which further reduces capacity by reducing road width (e.g., by
collapse of curbs and consequent reduction of effective road width by debris).
In general, traffic engineering standards are poor and road alignment is
irregular. The objective of the component is to realize the potential capacity
through raising the traffic engineering standards of the most heavily used
sections of the corridor (some 16 km) by the application of low-cost techniques.
In general, two 3.5 m lanes in each direction will be provided except at the
eastern end of the corridor where the available network allows a one-way
system to be introduced. Junctions will be redesigned, mainly through the use
of channelization. New traffic signals will be introduced throughout the
corridor. The works will include: roadside traffic signing, road marking,
traffic signal installations, bus stops and bus passenger shelters, pavement
reconstruction where necessary and new construction to achieve standard lane
widths, curbs, gutters, drainage, works and footways. All works will be
carried out within the existing right-of-way. In addition to the physical
works along the corridor, the component includes the reconstruction of a bus
terminal (Pantheon) at the western end of the corridor. The terminal consists
of bus bays, passenger shelters, reconstructed pavement, and access arrange-
ments within an existing square. It is expected that these measures will
yield substantial benefits to both buses (which carry 75% of mechanized person
trips in the city) and other vehicles. Improvements are expected both in
journey speeds and in the operational efficiency of buses (e.g., buses will no
longer be delayed by other unloading/loading buses at stops, etc.). At this
stage, in view of the limited level of private vehicle use, it is not considered
necessary to include exclusive bus facilities.
37.       The functional design of the project has clearly established the
operational viability of the proposals and the design standards are appropriate
for the type and function of the corridor. Special attention should be given
to reviewing the final designs for junctions, pavement and drainage, and
traffic signals. No unusual problems are foreseen in the implementation of
the component. A number of complementary agreements, policies and physical
measures are necessary to support the scheme, including the completion of
other EBTU/city-funded improvements to the road network, the implementation
and enforcement of the parking policy/regulations along the roads comprising
the corridor and in the Historical Center and the reorganization of the bus
routes to reflect the corridor improvements and the new terminal.
38.       Area of Influence of the Center-Anil Corridor Component.  Urban
development along the corridor is predominantly residential and over 90% of
the households in the corridor have incomes of three minimum salaries or less.



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Page 16
In general, the roads in the housing areas are unpaved and undrained. Bus
penetration into these areas is generally difficult and, during wet weather,
impossible. The objectives of this component are to improve this situation
by means of a road paving program to allow bus penetration into the low-income
areas adjacent to the corridor, and a footway paving program to allow pedes-
trian access to the bus routes either in the residential areas or on the
corridor itself. The bus route paving program will be carried out in 11
specific areas and will include both new paving and, in some cases, paving
repairs over a total length of about 20 km. The footway paving program (about
4-1/2 km) will be carried out in the same areas. In addition, the paving
program includes some minor works to improve general traffic and bus passenger
conditions: 416 bus stops and 123 bus passenger shelters where none are
currently provided. A traffic signing program is also included. The roads to
be paved as bus routes will be 7m wide and will include footways of 1.5m.
Basic drainage will be provided. The footways will be of a low-cost design
unique to the area: 5m wide with a central drainage channel. It is intended
to use a local form of construction called "pedra-de-mao". This consists of a
layer of 10 cm of laterite hand-placed on compacted sand with a sealing
layer of cement/sand. This form of construction has been found durable and
economical in Sao Luis and suitable for pedestrian and emergency and service
vehicle access. The mission was impressed by the attempts made by local staff
and EBTU to identify and use appropriate local technology. No unusual problems
are expected and no land or property acquisition is involved. A number of
detailed design points remain to be resolved (e.g., the traffic engineering
layout of junctions of the paved bus routes with the corridor). These are the
subject of continuing discussions between local staff and EBTU. The use of
the "pedra-de-mao" footway method should be the subject of careful evaluation.
39.       Local Institutional Component.  Local institutional capacity in
Sao Luis is weak. One response of the EBTU appraisal team was to reduce the
scope of the subproject to a manageable level. The other response was to
design a relatively large program of institutional improvements as part of the
subproject. To ensure the efficient execution of the subproject, a project
management unit will be created in the Secretariat of Transport. This unit
will be overseen by a Consultative Council made up of the municipal secretaries
whose agencies are involved in subproject execution. The component would
also finance: (a) a study of institutional responsibilities for urban trans-
port resulting in a plan for municipal reorganization and development of an
adequate institutional structure; (b) training for the staffs of the urban
transport agencies in the planning, programming, and management of urban
transport projects; (c) training for local public transport system operational
staff, including bus drivers, supervisors, and traffic police; and (d) the
preparation of an urban transport master plan for Sao Luis to guide future
urban transport planning efforts. The municipality is not only deficient in
professional and technical staff, it is also badly equipped. The component
will, therefore, finance equipment for the relevant agencies, including
office equipment, road maintenance equipment, and communications and patrol
equipment for the traffic police.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
PART A: STATUS OF FIRST URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT-/
Overall Situation
1.          The subprojects of Curitiba, Porto Alegre, and Recife continued
to progress basically well. Delays, however, occurred in the expropriations
for the second perimetral Road in Recife and in the determination of the
characteristics and location of the bus terminals in Porto Alegre. Belo
Horizonte has recently begun the legal process of obtaining bids for the
traffic signal system, which will allow construction to begin in 1981. This
will significantly accelerate project disbursements as this is the largest
outstanding component. In Salvador, 15 of the 19 key dates set by the
July 1980 Bank mission were substantially met. Although the implementation
is still moving slowly, Salvador's improved performance indicates that the
project is beginning to move better. EBTU also assured the mission that it
has adequate counterpart funding for the project in the next fiscal year.
Project Status
2.          The mission reviewed a set of updated chronograms for each city.
The schedules, generally, represent the level of detail and type of analysis
(i.e., holiday periods, transmittal times, review times, rain, etc.) that
was used by the Bank's March 1980 mission to establish a reasonable chronogram
for the Salvador subproject. The new chronograms indicate that the project
might be completed by mid-1982.
3.          Overall financial completion of each subproject was (as November
15, 1980), as follows:
Belo Horizonte                       29%
Curitiba                             45%
Porto Alegre                         56%
Recife                               45%
Salvador                             26%
Technical Assistance                 22%
TOTAL PROJECT                        41%
4.          The mission met in Porto Alegre with EBTU staff and the subproject
coordinators from each city to review problem areas. The key results of
these discussions are indicated in the general Aide-Memoire and in the
Salvador Aide-Memoire. The situation in each of the five cities is
summarized below:
1/ Based on the Supervision Report dated 12/19/80.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Belo Horizonte
The overall subproject will continue to move slowly until the
signal system work begins in early 1981.
Curitiba
No major problems are outstanding at this time.
Porto Alegre
Since it has proven impossible to obtain the land needed to
construct the Viaduto Osvaldo Aranha, the local authorities of Porto
Alegre informed the Bank mission that they will submit to the Bank a
request for a reallocation of funds from this project component.
Furthermore, the Bank mission learnt that new studies are
currently being carried out to provide a basis for determining the
characteristics and location of the bus terminals.
Recife
Delays in the expropriations for the Second Perimetral Road
have slowed the rate of implementation. EBTU and the Bank mission urged
the local coordinating agency to take the necessary measures to complete
the expropriations by March 31, 1981.
Salvador
A set of 20 critical dates between January and June 30, 1981
was established by the mission. Each of these points represents a
"problem area" in that all must be substantially complied with if this
subproject is to improve its implementation record.
Technical Assistance
5.          The use of consultants by EBTU continues to be only partially
effective. Generally, when a specific product-oriented task is assigned,
most of the consultants perform fairly well. However, much of their time
is spent in short stays in Brasilia with little concrete output. Several
corrective measures seem to be underway, however. For example, EBTU is now
using the consultants to assist on various task forces for developing the
EBTU Project Manual.
Training
6.          The training aspects of technical assistance continue to be
carried out by EBTU using at least three sources; in-house EBTU "seminars",
seminars" given by consultants for EBTU. (and sometimes for city personnel),
and informal training from exposure to consultants and to Bank missions.
The proposed organizational change scheduled to occur in 1981 will place
more focus on a training section within EBTU. There are several technical
areas which should be stressed by EBTU in future efforts, for example, use
of economic (and energy and environmental) analyses in design and in project
justification, urban traffic engineering design, and low-cost paving.



- 69. -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Studies
7.          The following is a brief assessment of the status of the studies:
- The study of the development of Metropolitan Urban Transport
companies has been completed and is being reviewed within
the Bank;
-  the first two phases of the study of the relationships between
employment, poverty, urban transport were completed and have
been reviewed within EBTU and the Bank;
- consultant proposals for the study on the potential for intro-
ducing urban road pricing in Brazil have been evaluated by
EBTU, and the study has been awarded to Transplan, a local
consultant firm;
- The program of monitoring and evaluation of the project has
been reviewed by the mission and is now taking into account the
requirements of the completion report; and the
- terms of reference for the bus operations and regulation study
for the metropolitan area of Recife have been finalized by
EBTU.
Supervision --EBTU and City Performance
8.          EBTU, following the Bank's March and July 1980 missions, has
taken some steps to improve its project supervision. For example, it now
develops and updates the chronograms for each city, rather than relying solely
on city estimates (which are generally extremely optimistic). Also, it is
setting schedules for supervision visits to each city. However, because of
staff and budget constraints, only a portion of the planned visits have
occurred. The fragmentation of supervision among various EBTU directorates
is expected to be corrected during the organization change of 1981. This
will aid EBTU in controlling costs and ensuring that final approved designs
are complied with during implementation.
9.          City performance in supervision is improving, with Retcife serving
as a "model". The progress reports from Recife have improved to a point
where EBTU intends to use them as models (with further revisions anticipated
for the improved supervision system mentioned below). By contracting
consultants, both Salvador and Belo Horizonte will  have
considerable support in supervision and should be able to comply with EBTU
progress report requirements.
10.         An improved supervision system is currently being developed by
EBTU and the first draft of a manual has been submitted to the Bank by the
end of November. The Bank has sent its comments on the draft manual to
EBTU on December 10, 1980. The improved system will be applied t:o this
project starting in 1981. Among the most important improvements will be:
(a)   Use of physical in addition to financial indicators t:o define
progress;



- 70 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
Cb)   regular updating of cost and time estimates;
(c)   regular reporting on compliance with all loan conditions;
(d)   evaluation of consultant's performance.
Another major improvement will be the greater emphasis on the use of
consultants to perform supervision in cities that are understaffed. Also,
the reporting formats used by all agencies will be compatible so that
little or no rewriting of material will be necessary as the reports are
circulated among agencies.
1/
PART B: STATUS OF SECOND URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT-/
Overall Situa-: on
1.        The loan became effective December 9, 1980.  Good progress is being
made in the establishment of the new suburban railway company (TRENSURB) and
the execution of the project. No major problems are foreseen.
Project Status
2.        Agreement on the terms of reference for the consulting studies has
been reached with TRENSURB (on the feasibility study for phase II and on the
management study) and NMTU (on the bus routes, satellite automobile parks and
transport tariffs studies) and lists of consultants to be invited to submit
proposals are presently being prepared. A short list of consultants for the
management study has been prepared.
3.        The arrangements necessary to convert constributions in land from
the Municipality of Porto Alegre into shares have been completed. The
transaction, however, has not taken place since it is planned for the same
time as the corresponding transaction from the State of Rio Grande do Sul.
4.        TRENSURB will need to expand its staff in the near future, which may
create some difficulties due to federal laws limiting such expansions.
5.        Procurement is progressing as scheduled. Tender documents and bidding
are on schedule and no major problems are envisaged. TRENSURB has already
awarded 30 contracts for non-Bank-financed project components such as bridges,
stations, pedestrian overpasses and infrastructure works. Physical construction
has commenced on nine of these components.
1/ Based on Supervision Reports dated October 23 and December 11, 1980.



-71-                                                                                      4>44  3
Palo 
BRAZII,
THIRD URBAN TNSPORT PROJECT
olsie 1:  DFTAIL.ED COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE  OF EXPENDITHRE
DISTRITO FEDERAL
BT-) r     -azIndia
81                                         82                                            83                                a,
1   2      3          4          1          2          3          4           1          2          3         4            __            OIAL
BRAZLAICDIA
LIGRTNIRG                                                                                                                      0,1                   2.77
Design                                                                                                                                             0.1.
Cons t-uti on
Duperyis Eon
PtrtIel Total                                                                                                           0.14                  2.91
Pby.ical ContinRgn-ie                                                                                                                             0.40
Partial Totel                                                                                                           0.14                  3.32                                  3.46
ROAD REPAIR, ETC.
Design                                                                                                                      0.06
Constr-tiEon                                                                                                                                       1.21
SDpervision                                                                                                                                        0.06
Partial Total                                                                                                                                1.27
Phyntoal Contingente--                                                                                                                             0.18
Piart0l Total                                                                                                          0.06                  1.43                                  1.51
KERB/DU'TTER
Ds igR                                                                                                                       0.01                  0.29
Cons truetion                                                                                                                                     0 .01
Dupervis ion
Partial Tt1al                                                                                                          0.01                  0.30
Physi-al Contingencies                                                                                                                            0.04
Partial Total                                                                                                          0.02                  0.35                                 0.36
BUD BAYS
D..ig0                                                                                                          0.02
Coonst-ution                                                                                                                           0.07        0.23     0.16
supervision                                                                                                                            0.01       O.C2      0,01
Pattial Total                                                                                              0.02                   0.08       0.25      0.17
Physinal Cantig.enti-s                                                                                                                                      0.07
Partial Total                                                                                              0.02                   0.08       0.20      0.24                       0.59
FOOTWAYS
Design                                                                                                                      0.14
Construotion                                                                                                                                      0. 8      2.03
Superrision                                                                                                                                       0.03      0.10
Partial Total                                                                                                          0.14                  D.7l      2.14
Physical ContngReeneie                                                                                                                                      0.41
Parial Total                                                                                                           0.14                  0.71      2.54                       3.39
SIGNINC
Design                                                                                                                      0.14
Cons tr-tio                                                                                                                                       0.42      2.31
up-t-i s  -.1                                                                                                                                 0.102     0.12
Part_l Total                                                                                                            0.14                  D.oO       .42
Phyeital CnntinRennien                                                                                                                                      C .42
Partial Total                                                                                                          3.14                  2.24      2.83                       3.10
SIGNALSD
Design                                                                                                                      O                               0..5
Costruetio                                                                                                                                        0.39      0.58
opartvin inn                                                                                                                                      0.02      0.03
Jartial Total                                                                                                          0.05                  0.41      0.61
Physiealo  Contingenclae                                                                                                                                    0.14
Partial Total                                                                                                          0.05                  0.41      0.76                       1.22
FINAL TOTAL                                                                                                0.02        2.54       0.08       6.93      6.37                      13.94



ANNEX 3
- 72 -                                                                                 Page  2
BRAZ IL
THIRD URBAN IR.NSPURT PROJECT
TabIle 1:  DETAILED COST ESTIATIES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE
DISTRITC FEDERAL
l(bi) cilandia
8__   1                       82
2        3        4        1        2       3   4
T,nTAL
CE LCANIDIA
Drairage
Design                        12.72
Constrtctont                           28.26   84.78    94.88    56.55
Superosion                              1.41    C.2U      4.75 25     3
-tia'l Total                12.72   29.67   89.02    99.63    59.37
copysitol Contiognoties                                  21.35    19.08
Portial Totel               12.72   29.67   39.C2   L20.98    7.415               330.73
Licghtir.g
Denign                          .153
Cons truction                                    2.65      2.65    5.34
Puperv-iSio                                      C.13      0.13    8.27
Partial Total               0.53              2.78      2.78    3.6C
Physical Uootinncieo                                      C.8C     0.8U
Partial TotaL               3.53              2.78      3.57      .40              13.28
Road Consott.uc tion
Design                        33.90
Construction                                    39.03    39.03
Su-ervision                                      .95       1.95
Pornial Total  2.92                          40.90    49.98
Physical Contingencies                                   11 .71
nartiol  'ToaO               3.90            4C.98    52.69                        97.57
Road Repoin/Resotate
Designuctio6                                    36.64     36.64
Supervision                                      1.83      1.83
Partia1 Total                3.66            38.48    38.48
PhysicaL Costingencint                    ~~~10.99
PantiaL  Total               3.66             38.48    49.94                       91.61
rb /Gfaten
Design                         1.:3
Co strtion                              5.63    8.45       8.45
npr-isn                                 0.28    0.42      0.42
PartiaL Total                1.13    6.13    8.87       8.87
Pyis'cal Contingencies                  1 69               1.69
Partial Total                1.13    7.81    8.87      10.56                       28.3
Ron 3ays
Resign                         1.94
Coostruction                           0.44    0.33
opecuisirn                              0.D02    0.02
PantiaL Total               0.04    0.46    0.35
Physical Contingencies                           0.'2
Partial Total                0.04    0.46    0.46                                   1.96
B.s Sheltors
Design                         DID3
Uco-trotion                                      0.36      1.08~    1DB8
Sop-nisi-n                                       0.02      D.05    D.05
PontiaC TotaL               0.13              0.38      1.       1.14
Physical Contingencies                                     1.27    1.27
PoncUa   loCal  t1~          0.13             P37       2.41.40 -4                  5.21
Eonononss
Dnnigo                         9.90
Constructon                                      2.84      8.52    8.52
Dupens.inios                        4~~~~~~~~~.14  0.43    0.43
apral Toa                   0.99              2.99      8.94    8.94
Pb:s ico   C ni1ngencics                                   1.49    1.94
a-rt-ol -Thtal               C.99             2.99    10.43   11.4-3               24.844
Di&ning
C-nst-oti-                                                 2.70   10.32
SsPer...isin                                               1.22    1.52
PartiaL Total                        u.01               8.11   10.88
Parti aL  TotalngDncSeR 8.17   13.61                                               27.69
Traofin SignaUs
Design                                            1.71
Cont-oti-n                                                          7.98   2.18
Super-inion                                                        0.35   0.35
PartiaL Tloal                                  0.71              7.43   7.43
PhpSnial Csntingn0.i1s2.12
Patial  TOTAL                                 14.71              P.43   9.56       17.22
FIN;AL  TOTAL            231    38.83   184.6    258.27  118.22   9.56          6~33. 1



- 73 -                                ~ANNEX 3
Page 3
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 1: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE
DISTRITO FEDERAL
I(c) Cama
(C rSml
1981                                          1982                                          1983
C A M A
4                  1                  2                 3                  4                   1                TOTAL
Drainage_
Design                 17.11
Construction                                                  38.01            114.04             114.04              76.06
Supervision                                                    1.90              5.70               5.70               3.80
Partial Total        17.11                                 39.91            119.74              119.74              79.86
Physical Contg.                                                                                    25.66              25.64
Partial Total        17.11                                 39.91            119.74              145.40             105.52               427.68
Lighting
Design                                     0.48
Construction                                                                     3.80               3.27               2.53
Supervision                                                                      0.19               0 16               0.13
Partial Total                            0.48                                  3.99               3.44               2.66
Physical Contg.                                                                                     0.72               0.72
Partial Total                            0.48                                  3.99               4.16               3.38                12.01
Road Construction
Design                                     0.05
Construction                                                                     0.52               0.52
Supervision                                                                      0.03               0.03
Partial Total                            0.05                                 0.55                0.55
Physical Contg.                                                                                     1.04
Partial Total                            0.05                                 0.55                1.59                                    2.19
Road Repair/Resurface
Design                                      1.94
Construction                                                                    19.36              19.36
Supervision                                                                      0.97               0.97
Partial Total                            1.94                                20.33               20.33
Physical Contg.                                                                                     5.81
Partial Total                            1.94                                20.33               2t.13                                   48.40
Kerb/Outter
Design                                     0.09
Construction                                                   0.47              0.70               0.70
Supervision                                                    0.02              0.03               0.03
Partial Total                            0.09               0.49              0.73                0.73
Physical Contg.                                                                  0.14               0.14
Partial Total                            0.09               0.49              0.88                0.88                                    2.34
Design                  0.03
Construction                                                  0.10               0.29               0.29
Supervision                                                    0.00              0.01               0.01
Partial Total         0.03                                  0.10              0.3 I               0.31
Physical Contg.                                                                  0.05               0.05
Partial Total         0.03                                   0.10             0.36                0.36                                    0.85
Bus Shelters
Design                                    0.03
Construction                                                                     0.08               0.23                0.23
Supervision                                                                      0.00               0,01                0.01
Partial Total                           0.03                                   0.08               0.24                0.24
Physical Contg.                                                                                     04 2                0,8                  0
Partial Total                                                                                        8                0.29                0.67
Footways
Design                                    0.41
Construction                                                                     1.18               3.54                3.54
Supervision                                                                      0.06               0.18                0.18
Partial Total                           0.41                                   0.24               3.71                3.71
Physical Contg.                                                                                     0.62                0.62
Partial Total                           0.41                                   1.24               4.33                4.33               10.31
Design                                                        0.322.73                                                  3.64
Construction                                                                                        2.14                0.18
Supervision                                                                                         0.14                0.18
Partial Total                                              0.32                                   2.86                3.82
Physical ConLtg.                                                                                    0.6                   .95                  9
Partial Total                                              0.32                                   2.86                4.77                7.95
Traffic Signals                                               O5
Design                                                        0.51                                  O  2602
Construction                                                                                        5.11                5.11
Supervision0.6.2
Partial Total                                              0.51                                   5.37                5.37
Physical Contg.                                                                                                          15
Partial Total                                              0.51                                   537                 6.90               12.78
FINAL TOTAL            17.14              3.00              41.33              147.17             191.36              125.18              525.18



-74-                                                                                        ANNEX3
P.ga 4
BRAZIL
TEIRD URBAN TRA'SPORT PROJECT
Table 1:  DETAILED COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OP EXPINDITLRE
DISTRITO FEDERAL
I (d) Pla_.altina
Cr157
1981                                  19S_               __                ,          _       1983                  1984
1          2          3         4          1         2           3           4            1           2           3          4           1        roLl.
TIANALTI 0N-4
ScrLe Lightining
CDesigncrtco                                                                                                                                       3.87        t.29
SCponrocsloo                                                                                                                                       0.19        0.06
Partial Total                                                                                                           0.26                   42 .          .35
Phys-ical ContingencIes                                                                                                    0.2614.07                           2.78
Partial Total                                                                                                           0.26                     0         2.1
To- 15                                                                                                                     0.23
CDs--tn                                                                                                                                            2.30        2.30
SCnsPt-ti-o                                                                                                                                        0.12        0.12
partial Tota                                                                                                            0.23                    2.4        2.42
Plyctical Contingeacies                                                                                                    0.230..42                            69 31                5.96
Partial Total                                                                                                          0.23                    2.42        3.31                   3.96
Rood Repairs, etc.
2.5        2.45
toprr'clotr on                                                                                                                                     0.12       0,12
Supervislon                                                                           0.2C                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,57  2.577
Partlol Total                                                                                                          02                       .0         25
Ohyttcnl Tootingenci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ~0.23
Partilcal Tonalngencies                                                                                                 0.24                   2.57        3.31                   6.12
Kerb lltter
11-ig00                                                                                                                    0.12
e.21       1.21
Onpotnintion                                                                                                 ,1. 06                                           0.06
Partivi Tsota                                                                                                           0.12                    1.27        1.27
Prtia-l Cntinoace                                                                                                                                             0.36
P-ti.l Total                                                                                                           0.12                    1.27        1.63                  3.02
Bus lava
Design                                                                                                                     0.01
Conttruotion                                                                                                                                       0.17
Supervisaon                                                                                                                0.01                    0.18
Partial Total0.1.8
P.,sic-l Contingenciet                                                                                                                             0.03
Partial Total                                                                                                                                  0.20                               0.21
Bus Sheltens
200100                                                                                                                     0.01
nnot-otdn                                                                                                                                          0.20
0.01
Partial Total                                                                                                          0.01                    0.21
physical Contingen-ies                                                                                                                            0.03
Pantial Tonal                                                                                                          0.01                    0.24                               0.02
Design                                                                                                                     0.15                               20
0.99        2.00
con:truction                                                                                                                                      0.05        0.11
Partia  Total                                                                                                           0.15                    1.04       2,10
Phyni-al Contingenen                                                                                                                                          0.45
PartialTtl                                                                                                              0.15                    1.04       2.55                    .74
D-ig.                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.45
Co.s.ranti-                                                                                                                                        2.26       6.79
Conptrucin                                                                                                                                         0.11       0.35
Pati'al Total                                                                                                          0.45                    2.37        7.14
Physical Contingen-ies                                                                                                                                         1.36
Partial Total                                                                                                            .4                    2.37         .1.32
naigo                                                                                                                      0.07
Constructin                                                                                                                                        0.53         .80
Supervision                                                                                                                                        0.03       0.04
Partial Total                                                                                                          0.07                    0.56        0.84
Physioal Conting-neies                                                                                                                                         0.20
Partial Total                                                                                                           0.07                   0.56        1,04                   1.67
FINAL TOTAL                                                                                                   1.54                   14.74       24.47                 38.75



75.                                                  ANNEX 3
Page 5
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 1: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE
DISTRITO FEDERAL
1(e)  SOBRADINHO                                             (Cr$m)
1982                                1983                          1984             TOTAL
SOBRADINHO                           4             1           2            3             4              1
Drainape
Design                               .20
Construction                                                   .50          1.51          1.51           .50
Supervision                                                    .03           .08            .08          .03
Partial Total                   .20                      .53          1.59           1.59          .53
Physical Contingencies                                                                      .30          .30
Partial Total                   .20                      .53          1.59           1.89          .83                 5.04
LIGHTING
Design                                             .64
Construction                                                                6.39          6.39
SuDervision                                                                 0.32          0.32
Partial Total                                .64                      6.71           6.71
Physical Contingencies                                                                    1.92
Partial Total                                .64                      6.71           8.63                             15.98
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Design                                            1.71
Construction                                                               20.57         13.71
Supervision                                                                 1.03            .69
Partial Total                               1.71                     21.60          14.40
Physical Contingencies                                                                    5.14
Partial Total                               1.71                     21.60          19.54                             42.85
ROAD REPAIR
Design                                           1.82
Construction                                                               21.81         14.54
Supervision                                                                 1.09            .73
Partial Total                               1.82                     22.90          15.27
Physical Contingencies                                                                    5.45
Partial Total                               1.82                     22.90          20.72                             45.44
KERB/GUTTER
Design                               .27
Construction                                                   .78          2.33          2.33
Supervision                                                    .17           .12           .12
Partial Total                   .27                      .95          2.45           2.45
Physical Contingencies                                                       .41            .41
Partial Total                   .27                      .95          2.86           2.86                              6.94
BUS BAYS
Design                               .09
Construction                                                   .06          1.70            .11
Supervision                                                    .00           .09           .01
Partial Total                    .09                     .06          1.79            .12
Physical Contingencies                                                       .14            .14
Partial Total                    .09                     .06          1.93            .26                              2.34
BUS SHELTERS
Design                                             .08
Construction                                                                 .32            .96          .32
Supervision                                                                  .02            .05          .02
Partial Total                                .08                        .34          1.01          .34
Physical Contingencies                                                                      .12          .12
Partial Total                                .08                        .34          1.13          .46                 2.01
FOOTWAYS
Design                                             .14
Construction                                                                 .58          1.74           .58
Supervision                                                                  .03            .09          .03
Partial Total                                .14                        .61          1.83          .61
Physical Contingencies                                                                      .22          .22
Partial Total                                .14                        .61          2.05          .83                 3.63
SIGNING
Design                                                         .24
Construction                                                                              3.19          1.60
Supervision                                                                                .16           .08
Partial Total                                            .24                         3.35         1.68
Physical Contingencies                                                                                   .72
Partial Total                                            .24                         3.35         2.40                 5.99
SIGNALS
Design                                                         .16
Construction                                                                              1.55          1.55
Supervision                                                                                 .08          .08
Partial Total                                            .16                         1.63         1.63
Physical Contingencies                                                                                   .46
Partial Total                                            .16                         1.63         2.09                3.88
FINAL TOTAL                     .56        4.39         1.94         58.54          62.06         6.61              134.10



-76-                                                         ANNEX 3
Page 6
BRAZIL
THIRD URbAN TRANSFER PROJECT
Table 1: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE
DISTRITO FEDERAL
I(f) Taguatinga
1980                             1981                                            1982                                        1983
1    2          3         -4            1          2           3       - 4              1             2
TAGEATINGA                                                                                                                                                                          TOTAL
Cns     tin                                                                                 1.62                      3.59      10.73      10.79         7.19
0.18       0.54       0.54        0.36
Supervinion                                                                                 1.62                      3.77      11.32      11.32        7.55
PM.0.t* 0i1*a                                                                                                                            2.43        2.43
Physical Contingencies                                                                      1.62                      3.77      11.32      13.75        9.97                     40.43
Partial Total
Lighting
Design                                                                                                    2.66
Construction                                                                                                          13.31     26.63      13.31
Supervision                                                                                                           0.67       1.33       0.67
Partial Total                                                                                          2.66       13.98       1.33       0.67
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                           3.99       3.99
Partial Total                                                                                          2J66       13.99      31.95      17.97                                66.56
Road Coontruction
DeSign                                                                                                    1.85
Coostruction                                                                                                         14.04      14.04       8.84
S.pe-i.i..                                                                               0~~~~     ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.70  0.70  0.44
CoSuprvision
Partial Total                                                                                          1.85       14.75      14.75       9.28
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                           2.77       2.77
Partial Total                                                                                          1.85       14.75      17.51      12.05                                46.14
Road Repair. Etc.
nesigo                                                                                                    2.06
Costruction                                                                                                          15.42      15.42      10.28
superision                                                                                                            0.77       0.77       0.51
Partial Total                                                                                          2.06       16.19      16.19      10.80
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                           3.08       3.08
Partial Total                                                                                          2.06       16,19      19.28      13.88                                51.41
Kerb/Cut ter
Design                                                                                                    0.39
Construction                                                                                                          3.90       5.90
Supervision                                                                                                           0.20       2.20
Partial Total                                                                                          0.39        4.10       4.10
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                           1.17
Partial Total                                                                                          0.39        4.10       5.27                                            9_.7
Bus Shelters
Design                                                                                                    0.08
Construction                                                                                                                     0.42        0.62       0.62
Supervision                                                                                                                      0.02        0.03       0.03
Partial Total                                                                                          0.08                   0.44        0.66       0.6
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                       0.13       0.13
Partial Total                                                                                          0.08                   0.44        0.78       0.78                     2.06
Pootv&vs
Design                                                                                                    1.03
Contrction                                                                                                                        .14         7.72      7.72
Supervision                                                                                                                      0.26        0.39       0.39
S'partiaTot                                                                                               1.03                   5.40        8.10       8.10
Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                       1.54       1.54
Partial Total                                                                                          1.03                   5.40        9.85       9.65                    25.73
Signing
Design                                                                                                                0,75
Conarrotio.                                                                                                                                  5.62       9,37
Supervision                                                                                                                                  0.28       0.47
Partial Total                                                                                                      0.75                   5.90       9.84
phynical Contingencies                                                                                                                                 12.09                     18.74
Partial Total                                                                                                      0.73                   5.90      10__
Sigtnals
Design                                                                                                                2.44
Coesitrution                                                                                                                                24.39      24.39
usperviuiso                                                                                                                                   1.22       1.22
Partial Total                                                                                                      2.7, 23.61                       231
Physioai Contingencies                                                                                                                                  7.32
Partial Total                                                                                                      2.44                  25.61      32.93                    60.9,
PERINALTOTAL.                                                                     1.62          8.07        6.96      66.18      129.70    109.32                    321.85



BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 1: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES
DISTRITO FEDERAL
1 (g) Summary and Technical Assistance
1981                                     1982                                        1983                            1984
1        2         3          4         1          2         3         4          1          2          3          4          1          2
BRAZLANDIA (Cr$m)                                                                                             0.02       0.54       0.08       6.93       6.37
CEILANDIA (Cr$m)                               23.10    38.85    184.67    258.27    118,72        9.56
GAMA (Cr$m)                                                        17.14       3.00      41.33   147.17    191.36    125.18
PLANALTINA (Cr$m)                                                                                                        1.54                 14.74      22.47
SOBPADINHO (Cr$m)                                                                                             0.56       4.39       1.94      58.54      62.06       6.61
TAGUATINGA (Cr$m)                                                   1.62       8.07       6.96    66.18    129.70    109.32
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  (Cr$m)
Equipment                                                         2.73       0.68
Partial Total                                                   2.73       0.68
Physical Contingencies                                            0.41       0.10
Partial Total                                                   3.14       0.78
Training                                     14.37    14.81      12.89      12.89      11.08    11.08       0.86       0.86       0.86       0.86
Management Unit                               7.63     7.63       7.63       7.64       7.63     7.63       7.63       7.64       7.63       7.63       7.63       7.63
Monitoring                                    0.42     2.90       3.28       1.67       0.58     3.93       4.33       2.17       0.31       1.40       1.26       0.23
Partial Total                              22.42    25.33      26.93      22.98      19.29    22.64      12.82      10.67       8.79       9.89       8.88       7.85
TOTAL (Cr$m)                          45.52    64.18    230.34    292.32    186.30   245.55    334.46    251.62           10.81      90.10      99.78      14.46
Base Costs+Phys.Contingencies (US$000)       698.51   981.59  3,534.51  4,485.58  2,858.84 3,767.55  5,132.23  3,861.58    163.71  1,382.39  1,527.57    221.85
Price Contingencies (Us$00O)                   30.73    65.76    321.64    511.35    391.66   606.57    949.46    799.34           37.65    349.74    423.13        66.77
FINAL TOTAL (US$000)                        729.24 1.047.35  3.856.15  4.996.93  3.250.50 4.374.12  6.081.69  4.660.12    201.36  1.732.13  1,950.70    288.62



78 -                                                                                             ANE22X 3
Pogl 9
BRAZIL
TR3RD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 2:  DETAILED COST ESTIMATE. AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENlDITURE
gAIXADA SSNTISITA
1981                                           1982                                         1983                                1984
0A4Y0A0A SA2TISTA
AV, TUPINIQ'US  2CrSm)
Uesign                                                      1.90        L.90
l      -on  ruclio-                                                                           6.08        6.08       13.69       13.69      18.25         18.25
Supev                                                                                         0.30        0.30        0.68        0.6.       0.91          0.91                                               3.1h
Parsia toctal                                            1.90        1.90                 6.39        6.39       24.37       L4.37      19.16          29.26                                              23 
Physicgl cing21rSos                                                                                                   2.85        2.85       2.85          2.85                                              1
Partal  Total                                           1.90        2 90                 6.39        6.39       17.22       17.22      22.01          22.22                                              9 4.2
I.1-d                                                                          6.60
Al. SANTOS  0UMONT  'CrS.)
Oesign                                                     4.79         4,79
C-nst-ucti-n                                                                                  8.63        8.63       19.18       29.29      30.68         30.68        37.39       37.39                    191 .b
S.Pe--i-jo                                                                                   0.49        0.43        0.96         0.96       1.53          1.53         1.87        2.07
Patial total                                            4.79        479                   9.06        9.06       20.13       2°1.3      32.22         32.22        39.26        29.20                   2',1
physical co1tinOoncles                                                                                                                       19            7.10        77.19        7.22,19
Partial TotgL                                          4.79        4.79                  9. 06       9,06       20.23       20.13      39.41          39.41        46.46       4S.4.                    219.0
TRAFFIC SCHE1ES (Cr".)
2Pci,-                                                      2219        .2        .2         8.70                                                                                                           3,. 
12.2 -2tt22                                                       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~47.74  56.47  226.   137.2.  222.64  212.23  42.96  42.916          726.2
2. 39       2.5 2       6 .33       4..        7.58          5.61         2 20          .2 47                      8
Partial totaL                                  9.19        9.29      9.L9       58.83       59.24      233.24      144.4?    159.22          117.73       44.06        44.06                    7SN 1
P2.ysical contingencies                                                                                                                    27.56          27.38       277.6        27.58                    210.2
P-artial 70L01                                          9.,9        9.19      9 29      _8.83        59.224     233.74      144.42     .5.7         ,.            71.62        72.62                    090.,
lgnd                                                                                        13.32                                                                                                            13 3
91t 9
VICENTE DE CARVALtI0 'Cr3s0
Deig                                                                            -.75        0.97                                                                                                            2.,7
Con-truction                                                                                             9.51       28.74       38.25      38.02                                                            224.5
Sop-roisio-                                                                                              0.47        124          19         1.90                                                             2.7
Parsial total                                                                 4.75        0.97        9.98       30.18       40.35      39.92                                                            122.9
Physical-  cotto                                                                                                                10.05       7.13                                                             17.2
Partil lotaL                                                                 4. 75       0.97        9.98       30.18        50.21     47.05                                                            14_3
SU06RBAN STATIONSEPOOIT 902RGES CrSo)
Desisn                                                     3.34        2.00      2.00                                                                                                                         5.3
Coostroctt lo                                                                    4.92        9.86        18.77      227.68       2.95       15.93                                                            99.2
Sopoovlllon                                                                      0 25        1.14        2.21         3.21        2.39       1.85                                                            20.0
Prtial octal                                           23.34        1.00      6.17       11.00       20.94       30.89       13.34      17.78                                                            104.4
Physical contingencies                                                                                    3.70       3.70        2.99        2.99                                                            13.4
P3arttal TotaL                                         2334         1.00      6.17       22.00       24.9'4      34 59       16.33      20.77                                                           127.8
BUS ROUTE I2IPROVEME0TS (8. v.1 CrS02
700 g2                                                                  5.00     5.00                                                                                                                        L0.0
Cons.r.c..on                                                                                            20.01       40.02        40.02     50.03          50.03                                             2008.
Sopernlston                                                                                               1.0Q        2.00        2.00       2.30          2.50 R20.
Part 001 totaL                                                                                       21.01       42.02       42.02      32.33         52.53                                              220.0
Physical contingencies                                                                                                          10.02       0.01          20.02                                              30.0
Partial Tota-L                                                                5 00                   21-01       42         _52.02  35.2  a.54        62.54                                             250.1
MAIXADA SAITrIOTA (CrSm)
70-605i10                                                                4.63                                                                                                                                 4.6
MasaOomeot                                  2~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~6.29  28.29   26.19  24.06  14.26  14.06  14.06  14.06    15.06       14.06         6.39        8.39        239.8
Studis                                                                          12.60       12.60        807          0 .07      6.93                                                                        43
510-5005                                                 52.8                                          1.32                                              2.32                                 5.28         23.2
PLrtial total                                         _0.47        _20.82   28.79        26.66       23.45       22.13       2 .99      14.06         L5.30       14.06         6.30       21.67         225.9
J...arY 1981 b.ae. Cs-   (Cr$m)                           40.69        42.70   60.50       126.22      053.27      393.32      321.33    392.63         284.60       132.23       124.47       12.67      1.950.2
BAIXALDA SANTISTA (USSQOIG
88- c0081  + phylt-il ccontingencie                      624.45        6:;.24  920.44   1,936.86   2,359.53   4,596.06   4,930.73  6,024.59           4,367.46   2,057.53       .,909.87      179.20         30.5
Price cofltiRg-Oci-o                                       27.47        43.90   84.48      220.80      323.25      739.96      912.18   1,247.09       1,004.51      512.96       529.03       53.90          3.7
_INAL TOTAL  (US$000)                                650192       699.141,012.92   2,157.66   2,682.78   5,336.01   5,842.91  7,271.68            5,371 "7   2,540.49    2,438.9Q        233.00          36.2



8RAZIL
IH1SJ) URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Thb1f 3nDETAILFD COST ESTIATES AND SCHEDULE OF EXPEMITURES
do0 UIS                                  180                    t                              1982                                 1983                  2                  TOTAL
1       2       3      4         1        2        3         4        1        2
Ca    Ki*t6rito
Design                                                    1.4     0.02                                                                                                  1.5
Coustnaetion                                                                   9.Sl    9.88    9.88     0.23     0.23                                                      30.1
Supaerislon                                                                    0.4'    0.49    0.49     0.01     0.01                                                       1.5
Partial 'tottn                                            1,48     0.02    10.3    10.37   10.37     0.24     0.24                                                      33.1
Physical Cuatimgencits                                                                 2.22    2.22      -       0.07                                                       4.5
Partial Total                                             1.48     0.02    10.3:   12.59   12.59     0.24     0.31
Cortedor CaMlEg-AgU1
Dlesign                                              1.84    1.84     1.&4     1.8.                                                                                         6.9
Cmetgn  ttSP    l.8                                                   1.25     3,6,   6.93   13.77    26.45    25.13       38.85   19.00     6.54    0.86                 142.4
6wpervtsta«                                                           0.06     0.1i   0.35    0.69      1.32      1.08      1.94    0.95     0.33    0.04                   7.4  1
Partial Utot                                      1."    1.84    3L1       5.6;   7.28   14.46    27.77    26.21       40.79   19.95     6.87    0.90                 156.7 
Physical Contingenctaa                                                                                            3.70      4.40    4.40     4.40    4.40                  21.3
atial Tota                                        1.84   1J4         15     5.6,    7.28   14.46    27.78    29.91      45.20   24.36    11.28    5.31                 178.0
Area  nltneCC  Ait
Design23  2.35                                                        2.35     2.35                                                                                         9.4
coreaactio                                                           13.51    23.C)   35.02    6.63    31.62    17.20      17.76   25.70     5.94    3.21                 179.7
S    vperSion                                                         0."      1.5    1.7S    033---  j.S5    0.68          0.89    1.28     0.30    0.16                   8.8
PartUl, Iotal                                     2,35    2.35    16.54    26.1)  36.77    6.96    33.20    17.88       18.65   26.95     6.24    3.37                 197.9
Physical Contingsncies                                                                                            4.95      5.65    5.65     5.65    5. 65                 27.5
ftrtial Total                                     2.35    2.35    16.54    76.f 1  36.77    6.96    33.20    22.83      ZA.30   32.64    11_.8    9.02                 225.5
sqadpnsne                                                   40.97    40.97    40.!I                                                                                       122.9
physical Contingencies                                       6.15     6.15     6.i 5                                                                                       18.4
tartital Total                                           47.12    47.12    41. 2                                                                                       141.3
Training                                             5.75    5,73     5.75     5. 5   0.32    0.32      0.32     0.32       0.32    0.32     0.32     0.32                 25.6
Stetdses                                             1.82    1.82     1.82     1.: 2   4.89    4.89     4.88      4.88      4.88    4.89     0.91     0.91                 38.4
momsembat                                            7.16    7.16     5.83     S.; 3   5.83    5.83     5.83      5.83      5.83    5.83     2.66     2.66                 66.3
WocitotinS                                           0.34                              0.09                                 0.09                      0.3.                  0.9
Partilt 1Total                                   Lt   lk   i,AL              , 2   11.12   11.04    11.03    11.03      11.12   11.04     3.89     4.23                272.5
Jan. SI CT$-Base Costs (Cr5)                            l9.37   67.33   80.23   103. 4  67.76  450 5    72.25    64.05         80.62   68.04    27.06    18.56                713.6
Jan, 81 15$ Ea    osts(0J$000)
Ns" Costi &  Physical Contingencies                295,65 1036.20  1231.19  1582. I 1D39.80   691.35 1108.69   982.83   1236.98 1043.88   415.21   284.83
Prics Couttagentles                                 13.00   69.42   112,03   110. 2  142.45   111.30  205.10   203.44   284.50   264.10   105.04    85.63
3      11os,sat05.62  133.22  U63. 3 1182.25   802.65 1313.80  1186.27  1521.48  1307.98   520.25   370.56



BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANPORT PROJECT
Table 4: COST ESTIMATES FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO EBTU
1981                              1982                               1983                  1984
1       2        3        4       1        2        3       4        1        2        3        4        1
EBTU
Consultancy (Cr$m)
Technical to EBTU                    13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94   13.94
Technical to Cities                    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69    4.69
Institutional to EBTU                10.97   10.97    5.33    5.33    5.33    5.33    5.33    5.33    5.33    5.33    5.33    5.33
Studies (Cr$m)
Technical                                     41.71   41.71   41.71   41.71   41.71   41.71   41.71   41.71
Manuals
Maintenance                                   11.72   11.72   11.72   11.72
Training(cr$m)                           2.05    2.05    2.05    2.05    1.76    1.76    1.76    1.76
Subtotal (Cr$m)                      31.64   85.06   79.42   79.42   79.13   67.41   67.41   67.41   65.65   23.95   23.95   23.95
Jan'81 US$ Base Costs                  0.486   1.305   1.219   1.219   1.214   1.034   1.034   1.034   1.007   0.367   0.367   0.367
Price Contingencies                    0.021   0.087   0.111   0.139   0.166   0.166   0.191   0.214   0.232   0.093   0.102   0.110
TOTAL(US$000)                  0.507   1.392   1.330   1.558   1380   1.200   1.225   1.248   1.239   0.460   0.469   0.477
0 |



BRAZIL
0HER1 URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 5: SBMMIARY_PROJECT FIANCIAL TIMETABLE
1110 $0E8)
1  2       3          4          1          2           3            4          1          2          3           4           1          2          3         TOA
SAO LUIS
Blese csts + physical c-atilge-cies                   295.65   1,036.20   1,231.19   1,582.71   1,039.80       691.35    1,108.69     982.83   1,236.98   1,043.88      415.21       284.83
Price c-stisge-ciea                                    13.00      69,42      112.03     180.42     142.45      111.30      205.10     203.44      284.50     264.10     105.04        85.73
Subtotal                                           308.65   1,105.62   1,343.22   1,763.13   1,182.25       802.65    1,313.80   1,186.27   1,521.48   1,307.98      520.25       270.56                         12,725.86
DISTRITO 2E1)ERAL
Blss caste + l .ical coesOcEesciss                    698.51     981.59   3,534.51   4,485.5.i  2,838.84    3,767.55    5,132.23   3,861.58       163.71   1,382.39   1,527.57       221.85
Price contingescies                                    30.73      65.76     321.64      511.35     341.66      606.57      949.46     798.34       37.65     349.74      .23.13       66.77
Sab..tal                                           729.24   1,047.35   3,856.15   4,996.93   1,250.50    4,374.12    6,081.69   4,660.92       201.36   1,732.13   1,950.70       288.62                         33,169.71
BAIXADA SANTPISTA
Bac cese + physical cn-tingse-i-s                     624.45     655.24     928.44   1,936.86   2,359.53    4,596.06    4,930.73   6,024.59   4,367.46   2,027.53   1,909.07         17' .10
Price continge-cics                                 2,747.00      43.90      84.48      220.80     323.25       739.96     912.18   1,247.09   1 004.51      512.96     529.03        53.90
sabttal                                           651.92     699.14   1,012.92   2,157.66   2,682.78    5,336.01    5,142.91   7,271.68   5,371.97   2,640.49   2,438.90         233.00                         36,239.18
7 .3T0ER CITIRES
Blss casts + physical contingencis                                                               6,250.00    6,250.00    8,750.00   0,750.00   8,750.00   8,750.00   8,750.00    8,750.00   2,500.00  2,730.80
Price cst isge-ci-s                                                                                356.25    1,0025 5    1,618.75   1,811.25   1,012,50   2,213.75   2,483.75    2,632.75       815.00    958,00
Subtstal                                                                                      7,406.25    7,256.25   10,368.75  10,561.25  10,762.50  10,963,75  11,173.75   11,3C3.75   3,315.00  3,688.80   86,580.05
1,689.81   2,852.11   6,212.29   8,917.72  14,221.78   17,769.03   23,607.15  23,680.12  17,857.31  16,544.35  16,083.60    2,275.93   3,315.00  3,688.80  108,715.CO
PROPAV
lassenacst a phycteal eostiageecics                            3,700.00   5,500.00   5,400.00   5,300.00    5,200.00    5,100.00   5,000.00   4,900.00   4800. 0.0    4,70.00    4,500.00   4,500.00  4,400.00
,,csciczntingenhc                                   300.00      505.20     64e.60     70( .00     800.00      9c0.00   1,000.00   1,100.00   1,200.00   1,300.00    1,400.00   1,500.00  1,600.00
4,0.610. a, ,UoO.vO   8,462,0    6, Out'.Go    6,000.00    6,000.00   4,000.00   6,000.06   6,000.00   6,000.00    6,000.00   6,000.00  6,000.00
rECHNICAL ASISTTANCE TO EBTU
Blas cases 4 physical cosioO1ees                                 486.00   1,305.00   1,219.00   1,2U.00    ',034.00    1,23407   !,034.00   1, (7.0'         367.7!)    367.00       367.70
Odces coatingescies                                               21.00      87.00      101.00     139.00      166.00      166.00      191.00     214.00       232.00    93.00       102.00     110.00
Sa,btntal                                                     50.700   1,392.00   1,330.00   1,358.00    1,380,00    1,200.00   1,225.00   L,248.00   1,239.00       460.00       469.00     477.00              12,285.00
r TAL PROJECT COSTS                                     2,196.81   8,244.11  13,542.29  16,275.72  21,601.78   24,969.03   30,882.15  30,928.12  25,096.31  23,004.35  22,552.60   18,752.93   9,315.00  9,688.;.0
123 983,210j                            -193,678,6801                                   1581,301                              137,756.73 F               257,000.00
Er/p



BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 6: LOCAL RESPONSIBILITIES - AGLURB
DISTRITO FEDERAL
2              3                4                 5                6
Project           Design of        Project Implementation            Project          Project
Project Description          Coordination           Project        Contract       Supervision       Operation         Poaintenance
Preparation       of Works         _p_rto          aneac
Drainage                          SVO                 SVO/            SVO/            SVO/                              SVO/
(U.de G)            NOVACAP         NOVACAP         NOVACAP            -              NOVACAP
Lighting                          SVO                 SSP/            SSP/            SSP/             SSP/             SSP/
(U.de G)             CEB             CEB             CEB              CEB              CEB
Road Construction                 SVO                 SVO/            SVO/            SVO/                              SVO/
(U.de G)            NOVACAP         NOVACAP         NOVACAP                           NOVACAP
Road Repair/Resurface             SVO                 SVO/            SVO/            SVO/                              SVO/
(U.de G)            NOVACAP         NOVACAP         NOVACAP                           NOVACAP
Kerb-Gutter                       SVO                 SVO/            SVO/            SVO/                              SVO/
(U.de G)            NOVACAP         NOVACAP         NOVACAP                           NOVACAP
Bus Bays                          SVO                 SVO/            SVO/            SVO/                              SVO/
(U.de G)            NOVACAP         NOVACAP         NOVACAP                           NOVACAP
Bus Shelters                      SVO                SVO/DAU          SVO/            SVO/                              SSP/
(U.de G)            SSP/DSP         NOVACAP         NOVACAP                            DSP
Footways                          SVO                 SVO/            SVO/            SVO/                              SVO/
(U.de G)            NOVACAP         NOVACAP         NOVACAP                           NOVACAP
Signing                           SVO                SVO/DAU         SEP/DETRAN      SEP/DETRAN                        SEP/DETRAN
(U.de G)            SEP/DETRAN
Traffic Signals                   SVO                SEP/DETRAN      SEP/DETRAN      SEP/DETRAN      SEP/DETRAN        SEP/DETRAN
(U.de G)
The abreviations in the table are:  SVO        Secretaria de Viacao e Obras
SSP      Secretaria de Servi,os P6blicos
SEP      Secretaria de Seguranqa Publica
DAU      Departamento de Arquitetura e Urbanismo
NOVACAP  Companhia Urbanizadora da Nova Capital do Brasil
DSP      Departamento de Servicos Publicos
CEB      Companhia de Eletricidade de Brasilia
DETRAN   Departamento de Transito de Brasilia
U.de G   Unidade de Gerencia
M Wl



BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 7:  LOCAL RESPONSIBILITIES - AGLURB
BAIXADA SANTISTA
1               2                 3                    4                               5                                 6
Project Implementation
Project         Design of         Contract           Supervision
Proiect Description           Coordination         Project         Preparation           of Works                       Operation                        Maintenance
Av. Tupiniquins                     UG              DERSA         Diretorif   de Obrasn PRODEPG-               Diretoria Administrativa           Diretoria de Servicos Publicosr
Pref. de Praia Grande                        Conselho de Operacao de           Diretoria de Obras - Pref. de
Transito/Diretoria de Obras-    Praia Grande
Pref. de Praia Grande
Av. Santos Dumont                   UG              DERSA         Departamento de Obras e Servicos                  Divisao de Transito           Departamento de Obras e
Urbanos/URGE - Pref. de Guaruja                                                Servicos Urbanos
Btus Route Improvements             UG              DERSA         SUTRAN/COPEL                                 SUTRAN/Supervisao de Servi-        SUTRAN/Supervisao de Servicos
(S.V.)                                                                                                         cos Municipais                    Municipais
Traffic Signal Scheme               UG              DERSA         DEMUTRAN/CSTC/PRODESAN*Pref. de Santos    DEMUTRAN/CSTC/PRODESAN/               DEMUTRAN/CSTC/PRODESAN/
and Bus Facilities                                                SUTRAN/COPEL-Pref. de Sao Vicente            SUTRAN/Supervisao de               SUTRAN/Supervisao de Servicos
Servicos Municipais               Municipais
Vicente de Carvalho                 UG              DERSA         Departamento de Obras e Servicos             Divisao de Transito                Departamento de Obras e Servicos
Urbanos/URGE                                                                   Urbanos
Suburban Stations/                  UG              DERSA         DERSA/DH/Coord. de Obras, Viacao             RFFSA/DERSA/Coord. de Obras,    RFFSA/DERSA/Coord.de Obras, Viacao
Foot-Bridges                                                      e Servicos Publicos/Coord. de                Viacao e Servicos Publicos/        e Servicos PublicosODH
Planejamento/CREAP/DH                        DH
The abreviations in the table are:  UG              Unidade de Gerencia
DERSA         Desenvolvimento Rodoviario S.A.
CREAP         Comissao de Registro de Empreiteiras de Analise de Proposta
URGE          Empresa de Urbaniza,cao do Guaruja
PRODEPG      Progresso e Desenvolvimento de Praia Grande
SUTRAN       Superintendencia de Trans4itoCrdnadia de Servicos Municipais
COPEL         Comissao Permanente de Licitac,ao
DEMUTRAN     Departamento Municipal de Trgnsito/Secretaria de Obras e Servicos Publicos
CSTC          Cia. Santista de Transportes Coletivos
PRODESAN      Progresso e Desenvolvimento de Santos S.A.
RFFSA         Rede Perroviaria  Federal S.A.
DH            Departamento Hidroviario a
^,   O t                                                                                                         w w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 8:  LOCAL RESPONSIBILITIES - AGLURB
SAO I.UIS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   i  2  3     4                    5                 6
Project Implementation
Project Description                     Project          Desg               Contract       Supervision          Operation        Maintenance
Coor_ination         Project         Preparation       of Works
Centro Hist6rico                         SEOT            DMT/DMER             DMT             DMT                                   DM1
(U.de G)          SU(DU)              DMER            DMER                  DMT              DMER
SPHAN               COM            COM                                  COLISEU
SEOT           DMT/DMER              DMT            DMT                                    DMT
Corredor Centro Anil                   (U.de C)           SIT(DU)             DMER            DMER                 DMr              DMER
COM                COM             COM                                 COLISEU
Area of Influence of Corredor        )                   DMER/DMT           DM.ER/DMT       DMER/DMT                                 DMER
Paving Program Low Income Areas  )   SEOT               COM/DU              COM             COM
Bus Stops and Shelters            ) (U.de C)           DMT/COM             DMT/COM        DMT/COM                DMT            DMT/COM
Traffic Signing                   )                     DMT/COM            DMT/COM         DMT/COM                                DMT
SlJ(DU)
The abreviations in the table are:  SEOT        Secretaria de Obras e Transportes
U.de G    Unidade de Gerencia
DMT       Departamento Municipal de Transito
DMER      Departamento Municipal de Estradas de Rodagem
SU        Secretaria de Urbanismo
DU        Departamento de Urbanismo
SPHAN     Secretaria de Patrimonio Historico e Artistico Nacional
COM       Companhia de Obras Municipais
COLISEU   Companhia de Limpeza e Servicos Urbanos
0QI
4W1



-85-                                     ANNEX 3
Page 15
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 9: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Estimated            Cumulative               Cumulative
Quarter                    Disbursement         Disbursement           I)isbursement
(US$m)               (US$m)
September 30, 1981            1.5                    1.5                   2
December 31, 1981             3.6                    5.1                   6
March 31, 1982                5.9                   11.0                  12
June 30, 1982                 8.0                   19.0                  21
September 30, 1982            9.4                   28.4                  32
December 31, 1982            11.5                   39.9                  44
March 31, 1982               10.9                   50.8                  56
June 30, 1983                 8.8                   59.6                  66
September 30, 1983            8.1                   67.7                  75
December 31, 1983             7.4                   75.1                  83
harch 31, 1984                6.1                   81.2:                 90
June 30, 1984                 4.5                   85.7                  95
September 30, 1984            2.1                    87.2                 97
December 31, 1984             2.2                   90.0,                100



-86-                                        ANNEX 3
Page 16
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 10: KEY INDICATORS - DISTRITO FEDERAL
PROJECT          DESIGN          CONSTRUCTION               PHYSICAL TARGETS
Road        Road
Drainage Construction Repair
km       1000 m      1000 m2
BRAZLANDIA        Dec. 1982         Sep. 1983           -           -          3.9
CEILANDIA                           Dec. 1981         28.0        83.1       237.8
GAMA              Dec. 1981         Dec. 1982         26.4         1.3       148.2
PLANALTINA        Dec. 1982         Sep. 1983           -          5.7        14.8
SOBRADINHO       Mar. 1983          Dec. 1983          3.5        61.3       127.6
TAGUATINGA        Mar. 1982         Dec. 1982          5.4        39.5       136.0
DISTRITO          Mar. 1983         Dec. 1983         63.3       190.9       668.3
FEDERAL



-87-                                    ANNEX 3
Page 17
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 11: KEY INDICATORS - SAO LUIS
PROJECT                 DESIGN        CONSTRUCTION            PHYSICAL TARGETS
Kerb/      Civil
Paving     Gutter      Works
1000 m2      km       1000 m2
Centro Hist6rico          Sep. 1981       Dec. 1982          8.0         2.0      1.4
Corredor Centro-Anil      Dec. 1981       Dec. 1983         64.4        32.8      5.7
Area de Influencia        Dec. 1981       Dec. 1983        161.0        52.3       -
SAO LUIS                  Dec. 1981       Dec. 1983        233.4       87.1       7.1



-88-                                       ANNEX 3
Page 18
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 12: KEY INDICATORS - BAIXADA SANTISTA
PROJECT              DESIGN      CONSTRUCTION        PHYSICAL TARGETS
Earthworks  Paving   Drainage
1000 m3   1000 m2       km
AV. TUPINIQUINS         Jun. 1981      Mar. 1983        33.6      24.5        2.2
AV. SANTOS DUMONT       Jun. 1981      Sep. 1983         -        38.9        9.7
BUS ROUTES
IMPROVEMENTS            Sep. 1981      Mar. 1983       15.2       44.6       10.3
VICENTE DE CARVA-
LHO TERMINALS           Dec. 1981      Dec. 1982       3 bus terminals and a footbridge
SUBURBAN STATIONS       Dec. 1981      Dec. 1982       1 suburban station; 1 ferry
terminal; 2 footbridges
BUS SCHEMES/TRAFFIC
SIGNALS                 Dec. 1981      Sep. 1983                  (*)
(*) Bus Lanes, Bus Ways, Pedestrian Streets, Signals, Signs and Marking;
Interseetion Improvements, etc.



-89-                                       ANNEX 3
Page 19
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table 13: KEY INDICATORS - PROPAV
Number of kilometers paved
1981 (3rd & 4th quarters)             97
1982                                 173
1983                                 160
1984                                 100
TOTAL                               520



-90-                                               ANNEX 3
Page 20
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CHART 1 (a): CURRENT EBTU ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Legal Advi-e 
L  =wn       _ i          Auditing    |~~~~~~~~~Accunin
F-mCo ntrol
l  Evaluation  | ~     Paticpaio
2~~~~~~~~~~rooco Public                               Trnpr
7  Relatons  l    ~       P.s-e
dnform-tiord Ban tg
:          ~~~Directorate 
-|     Proramig-
H  3;rectoraw  <                       X     Techn~~~~~~~ology t [
7     rnse 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l B. Technology6



BRAZI L
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CHART 1 (b): NEW EBTU ORGANIZATION CHART
ProgramCoordinationeUnit
l  l    l                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Planning Advisory 
Unchaneed-                                                                                                          Unit
, LW                                                            Project Coordinators
tr x
|    AdminMstrative    |            Financial            a        Transportation and Development        T                                       Road Infrastructure
|  Directorate  l         l      Directorate    r   D                      Directorate     a           D                                          Directorates_
Unchanged                       Unhnged              |                                                    lll                                           
l   l            l t    ~~~~~Water                                                      ||Rationalization  ||Community|
t  Metro and   Trll Bu         Transportation|      L Trm             Rod              Dis iPo    | f Publ ic Transport!  Participati n|
Dii  o              Division             DisononDivision                                                        Division
World Bank -22167
OQz
r.31






12    - 922922 -2   919                                                                                                                   Ie2
!122  2  S b 199992T2 2222223  19232290NY;X
121 992                          29221                                                        2t22                                                       Q99Od62                                                        2209222 1992
0) 222299922999299ea
2)  29229.0 nd     092  59221 222f ALd 2221202922
n2,  9 P2929299222129022191.222
.99902.222-o022 S/nullcpaaeebI
29x 0-23229922 -f 22292201 222222226 3.9.
11  0290221209 rf129  122s   29292202   9222009.wrtf'6"
)9  129029222  120222002222229 221 2i .>29
29    ci 0992222   922   9222292209222
.92.  222200222  .1111222022292antknk  cnernu
11   ib 212292   tc22-  9)2222:  22322292912e
192222929121                                                                   21  222in  222  Old- 92.92222222292022122h
919   99)                                                                     )   2092929.2229  202222  022222  2
sm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 2m202929222Di. 22922220220222999222229922
*r;rsATl 2                                                     >   Alilizat  1 of ev anDkrvLsios DrlI 2220 292)222
dl23    in   002222 2222222  02926n   29291922929222t;'n
222 9229.21222  22222992229  2129eo  srdescm  n
0) 222222222222 21 29222 22202 222022222yrtrotb
ordBiTl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~g NS2p922  29 22222  22229229  20220222992922oreCl
(rctober                                                                                                                    k)  ArrEi"fiddTUf ermrtrl'ltm  eACh ctty  wi(m09
.992221222922~~~~ ~ ~ ~~ oflfao 22221222229222222222  9222 0222222
02229292292~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o2                                                                          l 929.999222   922122ev   22d 29222999292  oerai
(2292029 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~)   ote 21                                                   io Ap32222  29222202222   92222222 tA 22 etrt
2922)t                                                                                                                                                   002 29Pic 929  20092.  22222021999192ece  er 
23 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~r 290222222  21o 922 2299222  2223212.222n 99ceue
222 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~e 2990dre 92292292etlld  La
13 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 029922222222222292299099 22299992to922222 9
222 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~J F9222099  22202929  22a 22222  9222teav   r   iN
21 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I i 922222203  222222 222222  29222222
93  2.022222222022 20 2222021 2921222 029922222               f5e t
99~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2o;2223  92tf 9229  9920etee   edb
23 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~r 0292222  oPfese 90202av 9222222  9292922222   22092
r/h nOIN   R) Yirt year  PEIDID3  iin arPoved bythe   a)   ratLen e21isilaS aie O  file23   202222229212229 22200222222222222222 2222 9222229                                                                 on iiL
(1222290 ~ ~ ~ ~~sELc  fo                                                                                                                                                                                       20122292  91n 222 29922  22222222  90s f L    O   fpriist  R   h   esosb)6-o   aAcpn    up        eHas1 t  hi
9991)                                                                                                                                                              222 29 2299 292029222229 222922992222~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aptVe
hVC   a) sessLons ud3ed televant b  gOR of   a)  8assins ludged ttLergt hy 803 nf              a)   esaLDns judyed rlevmnt b) 602)of2p912029292 of 222 .92902929y2602 of999222292922
aN-fOl3r   pnrtvciouts                rarticiDvots                                                 atticivsnte~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29  992  99192
YVALUATiU   b)  OrsDitatinq1 7r0  mms ideli-ieG   nd   b)  rob w. ientifle  1 ^ til  lxrsL  VC n U   l  Yrobl s sdenLlied InLle01  022999222292292222n  0999021209932222292902t  22WC ar
-   soL tioDs tcOFN  S id or fed and   c)  Ne  DrobLems if neifid and suutio=s               nE  Ne    Ob; 9  Lde, Lfipd ard AoR  inns                        c)    219=probLk k2922n22002 -29999222222122 tr9229
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  92902222  2222220  2229  2229  29e 9n2220
dl  Or3aissei al stre3rhs idntifi    a d   d)nvganistlu,,s  strenth1 Ldet2)  209999029220 21292222222222992.02fid 0902221                          Asse
9UAgiERLV   o)   C>moleLerI   n   Llmu a Camristcd e al CumpluLud on cime ) Ccmpleted on ttm21                                                                      02201 1229   f    922 92    29
DgV zkTS   b)  Fs n at _5 2r2roved L / ehe Ils k   b l eonnnI  a 2Ppooved by I he ga k        b l rOat is sIjyr29  00h2022229 29 922092 9292292229 22922290992 22222
dshadL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~2   22229   209222222929192922222292222 o
kNALUATICY                                                                                                                                                    bi  Tey ch nb  sNriNbLe am a lcred akallv i brse L ne d ts~~~~~2222022290292992
dl 221299991222222 20e 922d 222 9992222922222th sv






- 93 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
A. EBTU PROJECT MANUAL (OUTLINE)
I.   EBTU Functions
A. Goals and Objectives
B. Organization
1. General Description
2. Specific Functions
3. Organization Chart
C. Inter-Agency Actions
1. Annual Programs
2. Technical Assistance
3. Training
D. Project Cycle
1. Description of Six Elements
2. Flow Chart (Exhibit 1)
3. Roles and Responsibilities
4. Reporting Requirements
II.   Project Identification and Preparation
A. Objectives
1. "To identify urban transport projects
meeting the needs of the local community
and the general objectives of EBTU"
2. "To develop preliminary data for an
identified project such that an initial
screening of feasibility can be performed"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
C. Technical Procedures
1. Identification
a. Local Short-Range Plan (SRP)
b. Local Long-Range Plan (LRP)
c. Institutional Needs
d. Funding Capability
2. Preparation
a. General Description
b. Relation to SRP and LRP
c. Costs and Schedule
d. Local Implementation Capability
III.   Appraisal
A. Objectives
1. "To assess the transport, economic, social,
institutional, and financial impacts of a
project to determine its elegibility
for EBTU funding"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation to lending agencies
C. Technical Procedures
1. General Description of Problem
2. Traffic Demand
a. Existing
b. Forecast
c. Design Year
3. Alternatives
a. Description (include "no project")
b. Screening for Social, Environmental
c. Economic Analysis (Appendix 1)
d. Selected Alternative(s), Concept Design
4. Inter-Project Effects
a. Consistency with SRP and LRP
b. Linkages



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
5. Total Program
a. ELonomic Analysis (Appendix 1)
b. Social and Environmental (Appendix 2)
c. Energy (Appendix 3)
d. Institutional Analysis (Appendix 4)
. Staff
. Past Experience
. Organization
. Coordination
e. Financial Analysis (Appendix 5)
f. Costs (Appendices 1 and 8)
g.  I -plementation (Appendix 6)
. Current capacity
* Procurement
. Physical elements (rain, etc.)
* Special factors (holidays, etc.)
* Schedule and Critical Path
D. Risks
1. lnstitutional
2. Financial
3. Superv½sion
IV.   Functional Design
A. Objectives
1. "Provide details on the functional aspects
of the project such that all major questions
related to right-of-way, physical design,
costs, and schedule are resolved"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. Guidelines for Determination of Need for
Functional Design
3. EF-U Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b Relation to lending agencies



- 96 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
C. Technical Procedures
1.  Objectives of Functional Design
a. Develop costs to + 15 percent
b. Determine feasibility of achieving implementation
c. Develop time schedule to + 10 percent and
critical points
d. Develop plans to point where no major operational or
design problems remain unidentified
2.  Format for Functional Design Presentation
a. Data to be included
b. Scale of plans
c. Level of detail for plans
3.  Relationship of Functional Design to Final Design
4. Determine need for re-appraisal because of major
changes in costs or benefits compared with appraisal
D. Prequalification of Contractors
1.  Statement of need for prequalification procedure
. New technology
, Proven implementation record
. Proven foreign experience
, Proven in-country experience
2.  Design of procedure
. Administrative capability
. Financial soundness
. Staff availability
* Product quality and availability
. Past record in similar works
3. Evaluation criteria
E. Identification of Funding and Management Resources
1. Funding capability
2. Financial systems for project control
3. Supervision staff
4.  Local management of projects
5. Training needs (through EBTU) to upgrade local capabilities



- 97 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
V.   Final Design
A. Objectives
1. "Produce Plans, Specifications, and Cost
Estimates (PS&E) for project implementation"
2. "Prepare legal documents (edital) required
for bid process"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation to lending agencies
3. EBTU/Local Contract for Implementation
(if original contract covered only through final
design)
C. Technical Procedures
1. Objectives of Final Design
a. Develop Engineer's Cost Estimate
(to + 5 percent)
b. Develop cost contingencies for possible
changes in scope
c. Determine time schedule to + 5 percent,
including critical path
2. Format for Final Design Presentation
a, Content of specifications
Standard sections
Special provisions
b. Cost Estimate
Construction and implementation
Supervision
Physical contingencies
Cost adjustments
c. Scale of drawings
d. Level of detail for plans
3. Determine need for re-assessment of economic analysis
of functional design stage if costs are considerably
different



- 98 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
D. Assessment of Schedule Control
1. Past experience with contractors
2. Legal devices for enforcement of contract schedule
3. Additional devices to be used for enforcement
4. Assessment of adequacy of bond amounts and
contract schedule
VI.   Bidding
A. Objectives
1. "Obtain a reasonable number of bids from qualified
groups (including foreign companies, if appropriate)
to allow selection of a cost-effective proposal"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation to lending agencies
C. Technical Procedures
1. Determination of international versus local bidding
2. Schedule estimate for bid process
3. Formation of bid evaluation team
. General requirements
. Specific areas of expertise needed
VII.   Implementation
A.  Objectives
1. "To construct or implement the approved project while
maintaining high levels of quality and remaining
within budget and time estimates"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation co lending agencies
C. Technical Procedures
1. General description of supervision
(see also Chapter VIII)



- 99 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
VIII.   Supervision
A. Objectives
1. "To control and inspect all project activities
from Functional Design through Implementation"
This process includes Monitoring and On-Going
Evaluation
2. "To ensure that all contract provisions are
met, including time and cost schedules"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation to lending agencies
3. Staffing Requirements
a. Determination of EBTU and local agency needs
b. Terms of reference for typical consultant
contract
C. Technical Procedures
1. Scheduling (Appendix 6)
a. Updating project critical path
b. Analysis of schedule delays
2. Field Inspection
a.  Quantities                                            a
b. Quality control
Materials testing (steel, concrete, etc.)
Construction methods (compaction,
electrical, etc.)
Final product (concrete strength, electrical
transmission, etc.)
c. Overall work procedure
Traffic control, detours
Safety
General site condition



- 100 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
3. Monitoring
a. General description (see Chapter IX)
b. Relation to field inspection
4. On-Going Evaluation
a. General description (see Chapter X)
5. Ex-Post Evaluation
a. General description (see Chapter XI)
IX.   Monitoring
A. Objectives
1. "To provide reports on a regular basis to describe
progress on functional design, final design, bidding,
and implementation"
2. To report on problems and solutions
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation to lending agencies
C. Technical Procedures
1. Functional Design
a. Monthly progress report, requirements by general
component type
b. Quarterly progress reports requirements by general
component type
c. Sample formats
2. Final Design
a. Monthly progress report, requirements by general
component type
b. Quarterly progress report, requirements by general
component type
c. Sample formats



- 101 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9
3. Bidding
a. Monthly progress report
b. Quarterly progress report
c. Sample formats
4. Implementation
a. Monthly progress report, requirements by general
component type
b. Quarterly progress report, requirements by general
component type
c. Sample formats
d. Key indicators
General characteristics
Specific indicators, by component or sub-
component type
X.   On-Going Fvaluation
A. Objectives
1. "To resolve bidding or implementation problems
identified through the supervision process"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation to lending agencies
C. Technical Procedures
1. Bidding
a. Typical problems encountered, by general
component type
b. Supervision procedures used to identify problems
2. Implementation
a. Typical problems encountered, by general
component type
b. Supervision procedures used to identify problems
3. Relationship to progress reports



- 102 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10
XI.   Ex-Post Evaluation
A. Objectives
1. "To provide ESTU and lending agencies with
"before-after" analyses of benefits, costs, and
operational characteristics of a project component"
B. Agency Actions
1. Administrative Steps
2. EBTU Role
a. Relation to local agencies
b. Relation to lending agencies
C. Technical Procedures
1. Design of analysis
a. Local agency funding capability
b. Selection of components or subcomponents to be
analyzed
c. Selection of analysis procedure by component
type
Field data
Previous analyses on similar works
2. Application of results
a. Use to revise EBTU guidelines
b. Use in project completion report
D. Project Completion Report
1. Required content
2. Required format



-103 -                                    ANNEX 4
Page 3l.
EXHIBIT 1
Project Cycle
-[           '- ED- 
-  ~~~                 -        -    b~~~~C    b
-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          -      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  ED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h



- 104 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12
B. EBTU PROPAV MANUAL (OUTLINE)
I.   Background
A. Description of Program, General
B. Previous Brazil Experience
C. Use of the Manual
II. The Program
A. Objectives
B. Expected Benefits and Costs (cite previous Brazil work)
C. Funding
- EBTU Participation by Area
- Administrative Procedures (see also EBTU Projects Manual)
III. Selection of Potential Road Links
A.   Identification of Demand
1. Bus Route Location
2. Passenger and Vehicle Demand (auto, truck, bus)
Existing
* 10 Years in the Future
B. Classification of Road Network
. Roadway Type, by Surface Condition
C. Selection of Candidate Sections
1. Demand Volume/Roadway Type Matrix
2. Urban Poor Criterion
D. Alternative Improvements
1. Range of typical bus route improvements (including paving)
2. Analysis of paving improvement relative to others
3. Selection of sections to be analyzed for paving



- 105 -
ANNEX 4
Page 13
IV. Design Alternatives
A. Description of Typical Pavement Types
1. Soils
2. Pavement
3. Maintenance of Pavement
B. Drainage
1. Rainfall Characteristics
2. Typical Drainage Designs
C. Materials
1. Characteristics of Available Paving Materials
D.  Matrix of Feasible Combinations
(pavement, drainage, materials)
E. Selection of Feasible Design Alternatives
V.   Benefit Cost Analysis
A. Costs (Existing Conditions vs. Improved, 10-Year Period)
1. Vehicle Operating, by vehicle type
2. Time, by user type
3. Maintenance
4. Implementation
B. Benefits
1. Vehicle Operating Costs, by vehicle type
2. Time, by user type
3.  Non-quantifiable (identify and document)
* Extension of routes to inaccessible areas
Safety
* Fuel Savings/Energy
 Urban Poor
C. Benefit-Cost Analysis
1. With Time Benefits
2. Exclusive of Time Benefits
3. Priority Ranking of Candidate Sections



- 106 -
ANNEX 4
Page 14
VI.   Final Design
A. Types of Pavements
1. Physical Characteristics
2. Maintenance Characteristics
3. Costs
B. Drainage Aspects of Design Associated with each Pavement Type
C. Format for Plans and Specifications
D. Procedure for Final Cost Estimating
E. Procedure and Need for Performing Benefit-Cost Analysis,
based on large change in cost estimate (compared with
item IV costs)
VII. Bidding
A. EBTU/Local Agency Procedures
B. Bid Documents - Examples
C. Guidelines for Time Scheduling and Setting Size of Project
D. Guidelines for Prequalification of Contractors
VIII. Supervision
A. EBTU/Local Agency Procedures
B. Construction Supervision
C. Progress Reporting
1. Physical elements
2. Financial elements
D. Typical Problems and Means for Resolving
1. Impact of weather
2. Interruption of traffic service
3. Quality control of materials
4. Work scheduling and time requirements
IX.  Ex-Post Evaluation (formerly called "Monitoring")
A. Recommended Studies
1. Costs
2. Benefits
B. Selection of Sections to be Studied
C. Completion Report Requirements



- 107 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
EBTU PROJECT CYCLE
1.        A project proposed to EBTU would first go to the PresidentiaL
Advisory Unit for initial review, primarily to check for consistency with
national and EBTU policy and program guidelines. The unit would verify with
the Financial Directorate that the proposed project is consistent with the
resources available for the city submitting the proposal and for the programs
involved. The output of this review is a provisional budgetary allocation for
the project, conditional upon a successful appraisal.
2.        The directorates, especially the two programs directorates, would
have responsibility for appraising proposed projects, specifically in terms of
technical appraisal. To ensure that adequate attention is paid to (a) inter-
project relationships and (b) non-engineering aspects of project evaluation,
appraisals would be carried out by matrix (interdisciplinary) teams made up
of staff from the four directorates and the Presidential Advisory Unit. The
team would have expertise in urban transport planning, transport economics,
civil and traffic engineering, operational and complementary measures, insti-
tutional analysis and training, municipal finance, and monitoring. The compo-
sition of each team would be agreed between the head of the Program Coordination
Unit and the directors. The teams would be managed by the Program Coordinator
for the relevant city. Using appraisal guidelines set out in the EBTU Project
Manual, the matrix team would review the city's proposal and advise the city on
the preparation of detailed technical and economic feasibility studies. Subse-
quently, the matrix team would conduct an on-site appraisal of the project.
Preliminary findings would be reported to the city by the appraisal team which
would then prepare an appraisal report. This report would be submitted to a
review committee. The review committee would be chaired by the head of the
Presidential Advisory Unit and would comprise one person from the Program



- 108 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Coordination Unit, and one person representing the Board. Upon clearance by
the review committee, the appraisal report would be sent to the Board for
approval. EBTU would then recommend the project to the Minister for formal
approval and for incorporation in the appropriate Ministry of Transport
contractual agreement.
3         The Presidential Advisory Unit would have the additional respon-
sibility of reviewing all appraisal reports to detect failures in the system,
erroneous applications of methodologies, and inadequacies in staff and instru-
ments. This performance audit system is necessary if consistency is to be
maintained and if the appraisal procedures are to mature and be perfected with
experience.
4.        Once the project is incorporated in a contractual agreement, the
EBTU would begin supervision, following the procedures set out in the Project
Manual. Within EBTU, the two programs directorates would be responsible for
supervising the execution of subprojects within their program areas, using
staff members from the various divisions. Overall coordination would be
provided by the Program Coordinator. Supervision reports from the field would
be reviewed by the program divisions and by the Project Coordinator to identify
problems needing corrective action. Project supervision summaries would be
prepared every three months by the programs divisions and submitted for review
through the Program Coordinator to the head of the Program Coordination Unit
who would program meetings with directors and project supervisors to discuss
major problems and the corrective action required. The Presidential Advisory
Unit would monitor the functioning of the entire system and periodically
conduct a performance audit, with the objective of detecting flaws in the
system and suggesting improvements to the Board.



- 109 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
5.        The specific tasks of financial managemLat and control would
continue to be carried out by the Financial Directorate. This part of
EBTU's operations has been handled well in the past and no problems are
anticipated in the future.
6.        An important task in the supervision system is evaluation, both
on-going and ex post. The former will be the responsibility of the program
divisions. Responsibility for ex post evaluations will lie with the Presiden-
tial Advisory Unit, which will define methodologies and select the projects
that should be evaluated. Since EBTU funds similar projects in different
cities, it is not necessary to carry out an ex post evaluation for all projects.
Rather, selected projects should be evaluated to identify the conditions for
and principles governing successful or unsuccessful projects. The program
divisions together with the Project Coordinator would have the responsibility
for ensuring that the cities carry out the appropriate data collection and
analysis.



- 110 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Background Documents
Al. III National Development Plan, 1980-85, September, 1979.
A2. The National Urban Development Policy for 1980-85, CNDU
Resolution of 11 September 1979.
A3.  National Urban Transport Policy, EBTU, May 1980O
A4. Brazil-Public Investment Sector Investment Survey: The Urban
Sector, J. Hicks and R. Sarley (Consultants to IBRD),
29 April 1980.
A5. Social Indicators for Urban Areas, FIBGE, 1977.
A6. EBTU Internal Operating Procedures (Regimento Interno), EBTU,
October 1978.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B1. Initial Project Proposal, EBTU, October, 1979.
B2. Appraisal Report For Distrito Federal (4 Volumes), EBTU,
June 1980. 11
B3. Appraisal Report for Baixada Santista (4 Volumes), EBTU,
June 1980. 1/
B4. Appraisal Report for Sao Luis (2 Volumes), EBTU, July 1980.1/
B5. Technical Assistance Proposal, EBTU, July 1980.
B6. Transport Improvements Designed to Decrease Gasoline and Diesel
Fuel Consumption, Ministry of Transport, July 1979.
B7. Program of Alternation Transport to Conserve Energy - General
Information, Ministry of Transport, September 1979.
B8.  Program of Alternation Transport to Conserve Energy - Immediate
Action Measures, Ministry of Transport, February 1980.
B9. Report of the Working Group on Urban Transportation (Portaria
No. 266 of 14 April 1980), Ministry of Transport.
1/ Include details of technical, economic, urban, institutional and
financial analysis.



- 111 -
ANNEX) 6
Page 2
B10. CIP Methodology for Calculation of Bus Fare Increases, n.a..,
n.d.
Bll. Lines of Action, Ricardo Ivan de Medeiros, EBTU, July 1979.
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl.   Review of Past and Proposed EBTU Programs, J. Hicks (Consultant)
16 April 1980.
C2.   An Institutional Analysis of EBTU, Report by N. Boyle (Consultant),
February 1980.
C3.   EBTU Guidelines for the Appraisal of Urban Transport Projects,
Report by R. Westin (Consultant), February 1980.
C4.   Review of EBTU's Engineering Practices, A. Zuniga, February 1980.
C5. Summary of EBTU's Experience with Low-Cost Paving, paper prepared
by EBTU for Seminar on Low-Cost Paving, July 1980.






2 ( V E N E Z U E L A 8t / T;(pRH sa -_ A~~~~~~~~~~BRD  15235
i u S t XS~URINAEUAN4
C   V- L 0  M      I- A/                 '           BocI  2:  
t  kJ t  Wlh5! D  1fil g   !   oasl/lst9,f j  t   >,,   .  /:' :: !   \B  R  A    Z  IL
E 0     L  -A                 /                J A,.r                                                                THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
| t > 27 > - S 0 % *X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fortaleza
[.S  !,' {/ .   ,//   /    0               A)           J                 ?   .                     / TereSIriG               : Q       b t~~~~~~~~~~~C  Z--A    I
*    *    >  g  0  \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NtargX:  Rle 
:?  EiR P.20:  t 2 2  0   \^g_   <   <g  t  <:   I\           lX       \>          :           :'      :;                   '/'; '' &~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jao PRSSO
i  -.  2        \    \                   ,,11          1        :                                   :^*Salvodor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eif
t              E                 R    L                    t    / Port
"                                Q            f fj             Clsba                      / '               DderaVe' o
<                 )                  *                          BRASILIA w                  "~~~~
r.        7                                      ,_ . 
41,BRSIA l                                                :,   .,c,
-    .  g {-  <  \:   ; f Q    !    ; 0        tX             ~~~~~CariGrne        >.J                  ,      * Belo              I       
-20'. _C-.
i     ;          xW-2>        ' k                                                                                                                               20-]
,, ,, '~~V oAKAGUAY xa Mv rz  
i                         }             L.)           ~~~~~~~~~~CmtILbu*  ,
:>   (SOUTH-;-- .                               }            gX                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FlorianopSois
B R _A BRZI L               1A R G  E N  T 110NATSv
-,B-rJIh.      giP                                                             g                                                                             Location Of project arer2s
}   0    \  1                                    91{~~~~~~~~~"o:  /                                                                     rf    Nati nal capital
lfr?LMEilt  -  l r*lsm,ras bEeZP&p999iRthe|         f   >         PortAl.gre;                                                    *     State and territory capiials
i      qw ?Rc|   htrov4An.2tr  sdrs                        dr       I           \         fto/          lOEEs            0   0   0   O                  State and territory boundairies
J    ..   _| bmmyo8ysil9PhiolritXwdp?          |                 \   L ?              ~~~~~~~MILLoS "I ao    2°0   fro    *     -International boundaries
i!   L? d9Vf d@PIrpzrlfS@fr9@tr6 Mv                       URUBjAY            P                                                               Rivers
t 4 I anylZ7lrory Pt Z venMA§morl P to~~~50-                                                                            0'                                      1






BR AZ I L
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Federal District
CK
b'-D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VRE                                                                                                                                                                  IA"O
L                                                                                            .  .  ..  .  ..
t~~~~~~~~~~~~B I  .sl : oto <p A.                                                               -C) J T 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R  A Z
(  L Rv   \                      //~~~~~~YPCA                               LAY,   .' ,To
., s D 1. nO .e/.i_ C~~~rtes  soluded ro t e roec  rsroor                                  Er >o.   rF aim. srsr,r.'E ?>oitns                  F1s r0             7j jL __ _
*CBrFTElL>-    Morn Rood5                                                                  Fooerol Drstri                             I                  /1
Ro Is ods                               E- Rer                                        lj          S~ 50 NA        T  ,E      C
AL It jp toos                                                                                  I/                                          N
____ ____ ___ ____    ____    ___    ____     ___                                                                                                        B    R  A  Z      L       H
Sm     S                                       CITies or  Cet  cr0         and  Togu,ting.
N
0>              00t /              I    t#      >     \ 0  
-        /r               ' t                        f s        ,       o    
PRCJEC                                EXISTIIt ,
u g   \>           /                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~       ~      ~~~~~~~ Ne, Coroir sr Lrq erC0ro nse  
-- --  Repoorng                         -    Across R-cds
-,         -end W/ode-ng             eL, rp Ao ecs
e Trof4 c S qool,
. <                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pesrestr.orr Srq'lgss.' ' 
,:   Es. hErreoro 
'Crb  -terst
S-Sct  7O-r,g
rrETeL _--- Ore asege                                                                                                                                                                  -






, . . / t' ° C8a'* -               f461B BRD 15237
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                     ) souTH
Baixada  Santista                                             B R  A Z    L
ROIUVIA
AlM~ERICA
J \ X / < 't    0 0                f;;   (i  ,;                 \                                                          0   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 iN
V 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 X
RIO iRPANCOA A              -
t   O U E/R   A    Q   'i                   +                           , ;:       0     ta              - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ne,, Rood 2 onrs  -   Mon Aces Roods ond Streets
'.                        S ;oodo   Cntro Aroo  reprosetents  R ve
/( ; j , | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANONAVAS!                                                               Possenger lormnteols
/|    :   :! j  :  >;      -    n    z    1    a    5                          :  .                                          LAND USE                 /he has dcx, ulesslersek ons~~~~~~~~~~~LND US
/gV - ReSIdenTlO I./ ZA S .s1 ES J//Sl{6tRS VA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~esdnto                                                  0.000 tt .0 ss o
,    1  S   /  i  r   SZ                                                                          ,                              Green  Areos             WUIUEtOGMS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gr en A r o
-7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
45D30'                                                                                                                          46'1$'~~~
__ _             _                   ,_.   ,___                   __ _                        ____                                                        _






IBRD 15233
,    CA ao ,<                                                             L JB                                                                     w Z C - S  ,C .    -  g<  )  C)IC I9 A <FlH   _ 8
- --                                                                                                                           ;C R   I
"PL144 641MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A(3/40(< 
.. - 3 ,_A \ /ttV  I              COSilf,QVi 1  B R A Z  L
FONTAI                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THIRD  URBAN
JA                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRANSPORT  PROJECT
City of Sao Luis
COHA ".       copw  o;-9- \ / S/;  V l 5,,F                                   t \-      I
Avo                ~~~~~~~SA F/IANCI/CO  .2,COI-1,AF 0445                                                                                    So: V/S    \-  8,Tpm n
E~c,IC.". 80  d <CS, 8   /e, 
-AA/TC OF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(01131 3,I0AI
_ > t \ i | t / < LAN\D JSE AREAS IN  TiVE 
_AN _-( . /~8                                            CCNABSEOLS'AC       .                           j  1  i ii ir   i}-         - i<;00 3 2' / \ _ CORI l'M CR-)ANIL
- ,,MAR,A/     oKt94,VA"A0  A 1      5 ,                        «888 Iid
'[1-.,  , <>  ~4<43l~D  AWM/A                                                                           8 CO A1
7,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,
F,                     C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAVACU
J                            >                                  ._ _               __                                   _ *  $ 1P
ar'SYd';                                                                                aI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
A  gy_bEs 






