Document of                   FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2989-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES URBANOS
FOR A
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
March 11, 1981
Ihis doacmnt hu a resricted distibufion ad may be used by reipients only in thte performance Of
their oicil dis. lb Cotests MY not oherwise be disclsed without Word Biak authorIzatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980       March 3, 1981
Currency Unit     =      Cruzeiro (Cr$)            Cr$
US$1               =     Cr$53.25               Cr$71.51
Cr$1              =      US$0.019               US$0.014
ACRONYMS
AGLURB    -  Programa de Aglomerados Urbanos
(Program for Conurbations)
BNH       -  Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
CNDU      -  Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Council)
CNPU      -  Commisao Nacional das Regioes Metropolitanas e da Politica Urbana
(National Comission on Urban Policy and Metropolitan Regions)
DNER      -  Departamento National de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Highway Department)
EBTU      -  Empresa Metropolitana dos Transportes Urbanos
(Brazilian Urban Transport Company)
EMTU-SP   -  Empresa Metropolitana dos Transportes Urbanos de Sao Paulo
(Sao Paulo Urban Transport Company)
FNDU      -  Fundo Nacional de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Fund)
PME       -  Programa de Mobilizacao Energetica
(Energy Mobilization Program)
PROPAV    -  Programa de Pavimentacao de Baixo Custo em Areas de Baixa Renda
(Low-Cost Paving Program for Low-Income Areas)
PTAEC     -  Programa de Transporte Alternativo para Economia de Combustivel
(Program of Alternative Transport to Save Energy)
TOPICS    -  Programa de Aumento de Capacidade e Seguranca
(Traffic Capacity and Safety Program)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$65.17)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of January 2, 1981.



FOR OF'FICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU)
Guarantor:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:               US$90 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 9.6% interest per annum
Project
Description:        The project would strengthen EBTU as an institution and
improve urban transport services in selected Brazilian
cities, particularly for the urban poor. It consists of
three major subprojects: (i) institutional strengthening
of EBTU; (ii) integrated transport investment programs in
ten cities and conurbations; and (iii) a 500-km low-cost
paving program in several other cities. The first
subproject would help reorganize EBTU, apply the newly
developed Project Manual and train EBTU and local
staff. Six studies of critical urban transport problems
would also be included in the project, and assistance
would be provided to the cities through local project
management units. The second subproject would improve
transport infrastructure and operation in ten medium-sized
cities and conurbations, three of which have been appraised
by EBTU and the Bank, five more have been identified and
would be appraised by EBTU, and a final two would be
identified during 1981, and appraised by September 30,
1982. Congestion would be reduced and traffic safety
improved by low-cost measures including the provision of
better signals, bus only streets and bus lanes, terminals
and shelters. Roads would be constructed where necessary
to serve developing areas or to insert missing links in
road networks. In the first three cities already selected
for the program, between 58% and 96% of the components
would benefit the urban poor.  The project's  third
component would provide 500 km of low-cost pavement
exclusively in low-income areas and test and refine a new
paving manual.  An estimated 75% of the total project's
beneficiaries would be urban poor. The project faces
some risks concerning EBTU's capacity to appraise seven
subprojects, to supervise all subprojects in the ten
cities, and to execute the low-cost paving program at the
same time it undertakes institutional reforms. However,
EBTU's initiatives in preparing the proposed project and
developing the Manuals, have reduced the risks to an
acceptable level.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
------ US$ million -
Local    Foreign    Total
Institutional                             8.3        2.4      10.7
AGLURB
Design and Supervision                  10.2       -        10.2
Civil Works and Equipment              74.1       30.5     104.6
Management and Monitoring               17.8       -        17.8
Subtotal                            102.1       30.5     132.6
PROPAV
Design and Supervision                   1.0       -         1.0
Civil Works and Equipment              47.9       14.3      62.0
Subtotal                             48.9       14.3      63.2
Base Cost                           159.3       47.2     206.5
Physical Contingencies                    4.7        2.7        7.4
Price Contingencies                      34.0        9.1      43.1
Subtotal:                            38.7       11.8      50.5
Total Project Cost                  198.0       59.0     257.0
Financing Plan:
--US$ Million Equivalent--
Local    Foreign      Total
Proposed IBRD Loan                       31.0       59.0       90.0
EBTU                                     87.5         -        87.5
States and Municipalities                79.5         -        79.5
198.0      59.0      257.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
---US$ Million Equivalent---
Bank FY               1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual                19.0    40.6    26.1      4.3
Cumulative            19.0    59.6    85.7    90.0



- iii -
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return exceeds 50% on subproject
components for which benefits have been quantified in the
Federal District, Santos and Sao Luis, and which account
for 28.5% of the project's total cost. For the range of
expected returns on components representing the balance
of the project's cost, see paras. 67 and 68.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3180-BR, dated February 27, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES URBANOS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos (EBTU) with the guarantee
of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$90 million to
help finance a third urban transport project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that visited Brazil in March 1980 and was updated
in August 1980. The mission's report will be distributed soon.
3.         The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with accelerating inflation and a
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured expor-ts. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and a better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.         Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic growth.
with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of about 9% and
6% per year, respectively. During the 1967-1973 period, growth was achieved
with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance, despite
considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual decline
in the rate of domestic inflation. Given the heavy dependence of- Brazil's
industry and transport system on petroleum, however, over 80% of which was
imported, the quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973 result:ed in a sharp
deterioration in the nation's terms of trade. Excess aggregate clemand and a
succession of bad harvests have, along with increased energy costs, resulted
in increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and the reacceleration of
domestic inflation.



- 2 -
5.        CoDing with these short-term constraints while responding to
continuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment
and simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the past
seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining rapid
growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to reduce
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were successfully
contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports, particularly of
manufactures, increased import barriers, accelerated import substitution, and
heavy external borrowing, including large additions to international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil's dependence on imported petro-
leum, however, necessarily involves a long gestation period. Meanwhile, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports and intensification
of domestic inflationary pressures have been increasing the economy's vulner-
ability to further external shock. That vulnerability is being severely
tested by the additional sharp increases in petroleum prices and international
interest rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
suffered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost but showed
some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP growth was
6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in
a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the end of year, the
highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit in
1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or
US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to
which more than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising
gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion
in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9
billion to US$9.7 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0 billion,
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 6 months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$49.9 billion, or 24% of GDP.



- 3 -
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were followed
by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April 1980. The
most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments,
imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the introduction of a programmed
phase-out of most tax earmarking; a modification of administered credit programs
intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of direct controls on credit
expansion by the private banking system; and the establishment of ceilings on
monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment during 1980 and the first
half of 1981 in an effort to dampen inflationary expectations.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
e:onomic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest and
continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.       On the external side, preliminary estimates are that exports grew by
32% in 1980 as a consequence of the excellent harvest and cont:inued expansion
of manufactured exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports
expanded almost as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth
of the economy, higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory
accumulation early in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import
controls. Despite the rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume
of petroleum imports fell from 1,003 thousand b/d in 1979 to 929 thousand b/d
in 1980 as a result of conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution.
Nevertheless, the trade deficit for the year totaled an estimated US$2.8
billion. External borrowing totaled about US$15 billion (including an
estimated US$3 billion of short-term borrowing), and reserves were drawn
down by an additional US$3 billion.  Although Brazil was able to obtain the
required US$5-6 billion net external financing, loan terms were tighter.
Total medium- and long-term external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was
about US$56 billion.
13.       A number of important policy measures have been announced for 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been further tightened, and monetary
expansion is targeted at 50-60%. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction will be brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate will again be fully
adjusted for the differential between domestic and-international inflation.
Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls, interest rates
on official credits have been raised, and price controls are being progressively
relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions tax on imports from
15 to 25% will further discourage imports.  Although the net impact of these
measures may be some short-term increase in inflation, the overall result
should be greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown of economic
activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.



4-
Poverty Programs
14.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the Northeast
region have been protected from the present tight fiscal and monetary restraints.
Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and extended to the
rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered by the
social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has been
established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system, rural
households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to receive a
monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is almost twice
the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The urban popula-
tion over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million loans have
been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964. A sites and
services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more
directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack the
poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
15.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports constituting an estimated US$10.2
billion (nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation
of economic decision makers.
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues.  The December 1979 devaluation of
the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient: import
substitution. Although public investments may be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, priority attention will
continue to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture
and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per year in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit after 1980 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85 period
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1985. As a proportion of GDP, the
current account deficit is projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.6% in
1980. This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through
1985, reflecting continued import substitution, as well as a strengthening of
the overall domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would then appear
beginning in 1983.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11-12 billion in 1981, and remain in the same range from 1982 to
1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about $19 billion this year and rise to
about $21 billion over the five-year period, with 75-85% obtained as financial
credits from private lenders. Consequently the gross debt service ratio 1/
would decline from about 65% in 1980 to about 47% in 1985 (corresponding net
figures are 62% and 45% respectively).
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



- 6 -
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left
the economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The Govern-
ment recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports, despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By December 31, 1980 the Bank had made 101 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$5,393 million (net of cancellations), of which 55 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$184 million in the
first half of FY81. They are expected to increase further during the next few
years. The total undisbursed amount as of December 31, 1980 was US$2,626 mil-
lion. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of December 31,
1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totalling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totalling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totalling US$695 million were made. So far in FY81,
three loans have been approved, US$125 million for a second power transmission
project of ELETROSUL, US$56 million for a second Ceara rural development
project, and US$54 million for an electric power system coordination project.
Work is relatively advanced on loans for a multi-state water supply and
sewerage project, the fuel alcohol program, a rural development project in
Piaui, a second agricultural research project, an integrated regional develop-
ment program in the northwest, and a multi-state power distribution project.



- 7 -
24.       Of Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1979, amounting to US$49.9 billion, the Bank held 3.6%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.0%. In 1980, the
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is expected to fall very slightly,
while its share in total debt service should fall to about 1.8%,
25.       As of December 31, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$544.5 million, of which US$343.9 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.
Of the balance of US$200.6 million, US$149.9 million represent Loans and
US$50.7 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of December 31, 1980
is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.        In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lot7est income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to these ends
that the proposed Third Urban Transport Project is mainly directed. Loans for
water supply and sewerage projects in the State of Minas Gerais, in Greater
Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans for urban transport in
several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing, and
a loan for urban development in medium sized cities are assisting to improve
the living conditions of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor.
Additional urban development projects are in preparation including a water
supply and sewerage project for six states and an integrated urban develop-
ment project for Recife.  Previous loans for nutrition research and development,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension and polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin and for integrated rural
development in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba,
Bahia, Sergipe and Pernambuco were designed to assist low-incorme groups in
rural areas. Additional projects to assist the rural poor are in preparation
including several more integrated rural development projects in the northeast
and northwest.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are
used economically through rational selection of investment projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
project which seeks to improve the quality and efficiency of the operations
of EBTU, especially its programming, appraisal and supervision functions.
Loans for urban development, electric power, railways, industrial finance,
highways, agricultural research and extension, water supply and sewerage,
and rural development also have important institution-building objectives.



- 8 -
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Much of the
Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand
domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore
and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved
through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydro-
electric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation and regional
development objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to continue contributing to the
country's development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in
greater amounts and on more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and
private financial institutions than may otherwise have been provided. Eleven
co-financing operations, for more than US$425 million, have been concluded
since 1976 with private financial institutions and several others are in
preparation, including about US$110 million in private co-financing for the
CEEE power distribution project (Loan No. 1824-BR, approved in March 1980),
US$50 million in private co-financing for the Second Minas Gerais Rural
Development Project (Loan No. 1877-BR, approved in June 1980), and about
US$65 million in private co-financing for the ELETROSUL Second Power
Transmission Project (Loan No. 1895-BR, approved in July 1980).
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
30.       Over the last three decades, Brazil has experienced rapid urbani-
zation. The urban population has nearly quadrupled from 1950 to 1980. During
the 1960's, the urban population grew at a yearly rate of 5%. This rate of
growth diminished only slightly during the seventies. Growth has been most
rapid in the center west region, mainly as a result of the building of Brasilia
and the expansion of Belo Horizonte, and least rapid in the northeast because
of migration to other regions. Although the recent pattern of urban growth has
tended to offset the earlier dominance of the large metropolitan areas of the
southeast, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, a large imbalance continues to
persist between the southeast and the other regions.



- 9 -
31.       The urban population has traditionally been concentrated in nine
large metropolitan areas: Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo in the southeast; Belo
Horizonte in the center-west; Porto Alegre and Curitiba in the south; Fortaleza,
Salvador, and Recife in the northeast; and Belem in the north. A striking
characteristic of the recent urbanization, however, has been the growth of
Brazil's medium-sized cities. During the sixties, growth rates of cities with
populations of 100,000 to 200,000 exceeded by a large margin the growth rates
of the metropolitan areas, indicating a spontaneous decentralization trend in
Brazil's urban structure. By 1979, about 15% of the urban population, some
8 million people, lived in Brazil's medium-sized cities with populations
ranging from 50,000 to 500,000. According to current growth trends, many of
these cities will have populations of at least one million by the end of the
century.
32.       The rapid growth of the urban population has created mcunting
demands for shelter and urban services, both in large metropolitan areas
and, more recently, also in medium-sized cities. This demand remains sub-
stantially unsatisfied despite the Government's continued efforts. The
problem is overwhelming. One indicator is, for instance, that each year
about 500,000 new urban families must find a place to live. In the south,
in a medium-sized city like Florianopolis (1970 pop. 230,000), 16% of the
population live in substandard dwellings, 32% do not have adequat:e access
to potable water and 82% lack sewerage facilities. The situation is worse in
the northeast where, in a city like Natal (1970 pop. 400,000), 38% live in
substandard housing, 37% of the population have inadequate access to potable
water and 88% have no sewerage facilities.
Urban Poverty
33.       In Brazil, the urban poverty group is deemed to consist of families
whose monthly earnings are less than three times the regional minimum wage.
In mid-1980, this threshold was equivalent to an annual income of US$550 per
head, which is close to one-third of Brazil's current per capita income.
Since this method of defining relative poverty gives a result close to
the Bank's definition (one-third the average national per capita income), it
is used to set the relative urban poverty line. According to this definition,
at the time of the 1970 national census, the percentage of families living
in urban poverty ranged from 38% in Florianopolis to 77% in Recife, the
largest city of the northeast; some 41% lived in relative poverty in greater
Sao Paulo, the country's largest metropolitan region.
Urban Policy and Institutions
34.       The formulation of an explicit urban policy began with the Second
National Development Plan (1975-79). The plan stated that the rapid growth of
metropolitan regions, in particular Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, introduced
serious distortions in the country's urban structure, which had exacerbated
poverty, increased underemployment, and adversely affected the quality of
life. In addition, the rapid growth of metropolitan regions accentuated
disparities between and within regions. In response to these ccncerns, the
Plan proposed active Government support for the development of medium-sized



- 10 -
cities because an urban structure composed of both large and medium-sized
cities would provide a better basis for economic and social development than
an urban structure composed only of large metropolitan regions. The Third
National Development Plan (1980-85) deals with the urban aspects of Brazil's
development in the same general context, except that greater emphasis is
placed on the medium-sized cities and on the urban transport sector's
potential to conserve energy. In the long run, the planners expected that
the Government's action program would divert migratory flows away from metro-
politan areas towards medium-sized cities. In the short term, the Government's
direct assistance would enhance job opportunities and improve living conditions
in medium-sized cities.
35.       Over the past quarter of a century, the Government has created
several institutions to plan, coordinate, and finance urban development.
In 1964, it established the National Housing Bank (BNH). Later, in 1974, the
Government established the National Commission on Urban Policy and Metropolitan
Regions (CNPU) and made it responsible for developing a national urban policy
and for coordinating the efforts of the various agencies working in the urban
sector. Subsequently, in 1976, it established the Brazilian Urban Transport
Company (EBTU) to plan, promote, and finance transport in urban areas. The
present Government which took office on March 15, 1979 created the National
Urban Development Council (CNDU). CNDU has assumed the responsibilities
previously assigned to CNPU. The National Highway Department (DNER) also
makes investments within the country's urban areas, but these are limited
to components of the inter-city trunk road system.
36.       For 1980, total federal government investments allocated to the
whole urban sector amounted to nearly US$3.8 billion. Of this amount, US$275
million was invested for transport through EBTU, US$29.5 million through CNDU,
and the balance of US$3.5 billion -- representing the sector's largest share --
for popular housing, water supply and sewerage, and urban rehabilitation
through BNH.
Urban Transport Policy
37.       In May 1980, EBTU produced, in conjunction with the Ministry of
Transport, a National Urban Transport Policy statement. This document sets
urban transport policy in the context of the national urban policy, establishes
policy guidelines and priorities, and identifies investment programs. Economic
efficiency and equity are the major policy objectives. They are to be pursued
through the more efficient use of energy; maximum utilization of existing
transport systems, and their limited improvement or expansion; emphasis on
public transport systems, especially those used by the low-income population;
technological and operational innovations; improved planning and management;
and the integration of urban transport planning with land-use planning. These
objectives -- representing the Government's first comprehensive policy state-
ment on urban transport -- establish a framework for EBTU's operations and
provide criteria against which EBTU's future performance may be judged.



- 11 -
Interaction with Energy Policy
38.       Brazil imports over 80% of its petroleum needs.  Given the large
consumption of petroleum products in the transport sector, energy use for
transport is an important aspect of Brazil's national energy policy, whose
objectives are focused on reducing demand for imported petroleum products.
To conserve energy, the Ministry of Transport's Energy Mobilization Program
(PME), launched in late 1979, focusses on the potential use of alcohol and
coal in transport, and -- through a program of alternative transport modes to
save energy (PTAEC) -- it is reorienting investments to more energy efficient
modes, especially in urban transport. For the 1980-82 period, the urban part
of PTAEC emphasizes suburban rail investments in metropolitan corridors and
investments in road infrastructure, aimed at improving the efficiency of bus
services and the effectiveness of traffic controls.
39.       As a response to the soaring prices of imported oil, the Government
increased the price of gasoline from US$0.50 per gallon in 1973 to US$3.00 per
gallon in 1980. This helped curtail vehicle usage, thus decreasing overall
consumption by one third even though the vehicle fleet grew at about 11% per
year in the same period.
The Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU)
40.       EBTU was created by the Government of Brazil on April 12, 1976 as
a non-profit corporation, with responsibility for operating the Government's
urban transport program. It is directly responsible to the Ministry of Trans-
port. EBTU invests in urban transport projects, including suburban trains,
metros, trolleybuses, road infrastructure, rationalization of public transport,
traffic capacity and safety improvement programs, passenger and freight
terminals, water based transport, studies and research, and training. EBTU is
funded from the transport sub-account of the National Urban Development Fund
(FNDU) and external borrowing, mainly from the Bank. FNDU is financed from
vehicle registration fees and fuel and lubricant taxes with threse-fourths ear-
marked to its transport sub-account. In the past, EBTU has channelled funds
to the municipalities and metropolitan regions as grants, with the exception
of loans for bus fleet renewal and equity participation in the Rio de Janeiro
and Sao Paulo subways, and -- more recently -- a loan for a suburban rail mass
transit system in Porto Alegre. 1/ Concerned with EBTU's long-term financial
viability, the Ministry of Transport recently decided in principle to relieve
EBTU of the responsibility for repaying Bank loans from its budgetary resources
by transferring this responsibility to the cities. The Ministry has also
expressed interest in exploring methods of passing on EBTU's own funds to
cities as loans instead of grants. A study -- included in the project (see
paragraph 48) -- would evaluate alternative ways of lending funds for local
projects, including the financial, equity and practical implications for EBTU
as well as the municipalities. However, EBTU's general role would remain to
invest in projects reflecting both federal urban policy and local transport
priorities, to assure that investments are technically and economically sound,
and to supervise project execution.
1/   This project is being partially financed with Bank Loan 1839-BR.



- 12 -
Budgeting, Investment and Performance
41.       Until recently, EBTU's criteria for investment allocation consisted
of a blend of political and technical considerations. By mid-1979, however,
EBTU had developed a set of technical allocation criteria, based on the type
of transport investment proposed, distribution of urban population, and the
urban structure in the area to be assisted. These criteria were first applied
in a rudimentary form while preparing the 1980 budget that was discussed with
the Ministry of Transport and reviewed by the Secretariat of Planning. Final
decisions concerning the 1980 budget, however, also took into account the
views of the cities, and basic policy guidelines. The completion of unfinished
projects was given high priority, and so were projects designed to solve
operational problems to meet the needs of the urban poor; reduce fuel consump-
tion; and develop local technical and financial capacity.
42.       EBTU has demonstrated increasing effectiveness in responding to the
evolving needs of the urban transport sector. Its planned investment program
for 1980-83 would more than double the 1977-79 investment levels in real
terms, with especially large increases for suburban trains, trolley buses and
traffic capacity and safety improvement programs, reducing, at the same time,
the relative importance of funds channelled to the Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo subway systems. DNER's 1981 investments for the inter-city trunk road
system within urban areas is expected to be about one half of EBTU's total.
In the past, EBTU investment allocations were proportional to each region's
metropolitan population. With less funds going into the two major subway
systems in the Southeastern region, EBTU would turn to less capital intensive
investments and emphasize investments in more Brazil's medium-sized cities.
This is fully consistent with the Government's urban development strategy. On
the other hnnd  the need for energy conservation would call for EBTU to
concentrate more in the metropolitan regions, where most fuel is consumed.
Thus, the agency is in a difficult position, having to balance the sometimes
conflicting goals of urban and energy policies. Although EBTU has already
demonstrated increasing institutional maturity in investment decision-making,
the sound selection of projects will continue to be a prerequisite of its
success in the 1980's. To help tighten further EBTU's investment decisions,
EBTU would inform the Bank of any major transport investment additional to
those included in the project costing in excess of US$3 million in any of the
ten cities participating in the project, and allow the Bank reasonable time to
comment before the proposed investments were made (Section 5.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Bank would have the right to suspend disbursements for
any subproject if it found that the aforementioned additional investment would
materially and adversely affect the subproject's execution or operation
(Section 6.01(b)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
43.       The Bank's involvement in Brazil's urban sector focuses on two
main objectives: providing services to, and generating employment opportuni-
ties for, the urban poor, and strengthening the planning and implementation
capacity of sectoral institutions at the federal and local level. The First



- 13 -
Urban Transport Project with components in five metropolitan areas was approved
in June 1978 and is underway. Two of the five subprojects were appraised by
EBTU, the first (Porto Alegre), reasonably well, but the second (Belo Horizonte),
somewhat poorly, mainly because of inadequate traffic and capacity projections
and geometric design by the local planning agency. EBTU staff --- lacking the
necessary authority over the local agency to impose changes -- wiere assisted
by Bank supervision missions to remedy the situation. Project execution is
now progressing well. The Second Urban Transport Project which was approved
in May 1980 and provides finance for the construction of the Porto Alegre
suburban railway, has started up well.
44.       Since 1970, the Bank has financed a series of water supply and
sewerage projects through the National Housing Bank (BNH) in the states of
Minas Gerais, Pernambuco, Bahia, Ceara, Parana, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do
Sul, and in Greater Sao Paulo. A Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing
Project for Greater Sao Paulo, Bahia and Pernambuco was approved in January
1979 and is under way. The Medium-Sized Cities Project, approved in May 1979,
includes subprojects in eight cities. EBTU carried out appraisals of the
transport components in four cities, helped produce guidelines for project
work, and produced sound reports using a standardized format developed within
the agency. In addition, the Bank's First and Second Urban Tran,sport Projects
focussed on the metropolitan regions of Curitiba, Salvador, Recife, Belo
Horizonte and Porto Alegre. The proposed loan -- following the urban prior-
ities of Brazil's development plan -- would finance urban transport improve-
ments in medium-sized cities and conurbations. Progress in EBTU's project
preparation and supervision work constituted a key consideration in the
decision to process the proposed loan at this time.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       Preparation of the proposed project began in 1979.  A Bank mission
appraised the proposed project in July 1980, and its report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report of the Third tJrban Transport Project" (Report No. 3180-BR
dated February 27, 1981) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 17 to Feruary 20,
1981. The Brazilian delegation was led by Mr. Wando Pereira Borges, Secretary
General of the Ministry of Transport. A supplementary project data sheet,
including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions, is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The project has two major objectives:  the further strengthening
of EBTU as an institution, and the improvement of urban transport services,
particularly for the urban poor, in selected Brazilian cities. These objec-
tives would be achieved through the following three subprojects: (a) insti-
tution-building and technical assistance to improve EBTU's performance;
(b) integrated transport investment programs in ten medium-sized cities artd
conurbations; and (c) a 500-km low-cost paving program in several other
cities.  Under the project, responsibility for supervision work in all cities



- 14 -
and appraisal in the seven cities not yet appraised (see paragraph 50) would
be delegated to EBTU. This effort, which is one of the project's principal
institution building features, would result in subprojects -- accounting for
more than one half of the project's total cost -- being appraised by EBTU. In
these terms, the proposed operation already qualifies as a sector loan. The
designation of institution building as a subproject emphasizes that improve-
ments in this respect are as important as the physical subprojects, and
provides a mechanism with which progress under the project can be readily
assessed, and a judgment made by the Bank in the future as to whether EBTU is
ready for full-scale sector lending in which the agency would be responsible
for all appraisal and supervision work under an agreed program.
Institution Building and Technical Assistance
47.       The first subproject would consist of institution-building and
technical assistance. Institution-building would focus on three areas. The
first consists of merging the functions of the technical and operations
directorates and transforming them into two new directorates to deal with EBTU's
programs in road infrastructure and transport development, strengthening the
Planning Advisory Unit, and creating a Program Coordination Unit. These would
be completed by June 30, 1982. The second would be to test new procedures for
project preparation, evaluation, execution, and supervision, including ex-post
evaluation, which have already been incorporated in a new Project Manual. The
third area would be to train EBTU's staff in the use of the new Project Manual,
and in various areas where the organization has been weak in the past, such as
traffic operations and economic analysis, and management. Technical assistance
and training would also be provided to the cities which participate in EBTU's
programs but lack the know-how and executive capacity to deal with major urban
transport problems independently.
48.       Finally, to assist EBTU in areas where data are unavailable or
problems are poorly understood, technical assistance would be provided for
studies in: (a) energy saving aspects of urban transport planning; (b) mainte-
nance of urban transport infrastructure; (c) user cost calculations for
vehicles in urban conditions; (d) planning and control of bus routes; (e) bus
operating procedures; and (f) alternative ways for EBTU to onlend funds to the
municipalities. The institutional subproject would take about three years
(1981-1983) to complete.
Transport Infrastructure and Operations Program
49.       The second subproject would improve transport infrastructure and
operation in ten medium-sized cities, including several state capitals and
important conurbations. The required investments are high on EBTU's list of
priorities, and would be carried out under the agency's nationwide Program for
Conurbations (AGLURB), which it has recently developed with a special emphasis
on the integration of urban transport components covering more than one juris-
diction. The proposed project would test EBTU's AGLURB program. Many Brazilian
cities share common problems, such as high population growth, difficulties in
providing jobs, and a concentration of the urban poor in fringe areas not
served with adequate public transport. The thrust of the improvements proposed



- 15 -
under the AGLURB subproject would be to improve at low costs the inadequate --
mainly public -- transport services, especially those benefitting the urban
poor. Execution of the AGLURB subproject is estimated to take about three-
and-a-half years (mid-1981-1984).
50.       Eight of the ten cities -- the Federal District (six satellite
cities of Brasilia), Baixada Santista (Santos), Sao Luis do Maranhao, Cuiaba,
Goiania, Maceio, Florianopolis and Natal -- have already been selected by
EBTU. The two remaining cities would be determined by EBTU (see paragraph 64)
during project execution. The first three have been reviewed in detail by
Bank staff based on appraisals by EBTU. Appraisal of the remaining seven
cities, however, would be EBTU's responsibility.
51.       Three types of investment would be financed.  First, to alleviate
congestion and improve traffic safety, the effective capacity of existing
major corridors would be improved by such low-cost measures as providing
continuous and even pavement widths, channelling traffic, prohibiting turns
and otherwise improving intersections, and providing better signals, signing
and marking. Second, to improve bus services, bus-only streets, bus lanes,
new bus terminals, bus route paving and shelters in poor areas, pedestrian
bridges and better street lighting would be provided. Third, existing major
arteries would be widened or, in some cases, new ones built to serve new urban
developments or provide missing links in the existing urban network. These
improvements would be particularly important where facilities cut across
municipal boundaries and cause jurisdictional and administrative problems that
lead to a neglect of transport services within the metropolitan areas. To co-
ordinate preparation and execution of the various low-cost project components,
the cities selected would, under EBTU's guidance, set up and operate local
project management units as part of each subproject. The staff of these
units would receive training in project related areas.
Low-Cost Paving Program
52.       The third subproject would be a low-cost paving program in cities
other than those benefitting from the second subproject. Unpaved streets,
including actual or potential bus routes, cause serious problems in many
cities. The combination of bad drainage and inadequate geometric features of
the network, particularly in neglected poor urban areas, increases bus operating
costs, limits access to emergency and other services, and may prevent the
penetration of bus service altogether. The problem is extensive and common
to most Brazilian cities. According to conservative estimates, a total of
3,000 km of bus routes are unpaved in the country's medium-sized cities and
metropolitan regions. To deal with the problem, EBTU is launching a low-cost
paving program (PROPAV), in areas in which at least 70% of the households are
below the poverty level. This program -- developed recently under EBTU's road
infrastructure program -- increases the poverty focus of the agency's public
transport investments. A first 500 km slice of the program would be financed
under the proposed project over a three year period (mid-1981 to mid-1984).
53.       Past experience with paving in low-income urban areas -- including
lessons from the First Brazil Urban Transport Project (Loan 1563-BR) -- shows
that ambitious standards and elaborate designs often lead to cost overruns



- 16 -
and cause substantial delays in the works. Therefore, the PROPAV subproject
would be carried out according to a set of new guidelines EBTU has developed
for low-cost paving based on its own experience, a manual for low-cost paving by
the Sao Paulo Urban Transport Company (EMTU-SP), and a study of minimum design
standards and low-cost paving by the University of Paraiba. EBTU has assembled
its guidelines, including poverty criteria for project selection and design
and contracting procedures in a new PROPAV Manual. It provides a simple set
of criteria that will enable a small staff to operate and evaluate a relatively
large low-cost paving program on the national level.
54.       The strengthening of EBTU, improvements in transport infrastructure
and operation (AGLURB), and the low-cost paving program (PROPAV) constitute
three distinct subprojects, but are highly complementary. Institution building
in EBTU would provide organizational and procedural improvements helping to
carry out other two subprojects. The AGLURB subproject would test EBTU's
appraisal and supervision capacity, and the PROPAV subproject would require
that EBTU operate its program efficiently, thus helping to streamline the
agency's procedures.
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The project's total cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$257 million equivalent of which US$59 million represent foreign expenditures.
The cost estimates are based on detailed engineering and recent bidding by
contractors for similar works in the Federal District, Santos and Sao Luis;
for the cities not yet appraised costs were set as targets of US$10 million
each, in line with costs extrapolated from the Santos, Sao Luis and Federal
District components and the size of the new cities. Low-cost paving in the
low-income urban areas would average US$120,000 per kilometer, and technical
assistance to EBTU and three cities totalling some 150 man-years would be
provided at an average man-month cost of US$12,000, including travel, subsis-
tence allowances and overhead.
56.       The proposed US$90 million Bank loan would finance 35% of the
project's total cost, including its full foreign exchange component of
US$59 million and US$31 million equivalent in local costs. Bank financing
of this small portion of the project's local currency expenditures -- some
12% of its total cost -- is justified in order that the Bank may play a
meaningful role in an innovative and important project that mainly benefits
low-income users, all the more so as Brazil is making a vigorous effort
to mobilize domestic resources for development, and particularly for projects
which -- like the proposed operation -- have a relatively low foreign exchange
content and a significant social impact. EBTU would pass on the proceeds of
the Bank's loan to the municipalities in accordance with terms -- satisfactory
to the Bank -- which would be adopted following a review of a study of alterna-
tive ways of lending EBTU funds to cities and states (Section 3.05(a)(i) of
the draft Loan Agreement). EBTU's own contribution of US$87.5 million would
be passed on as grants to the cities. The remaining US$79.5 million, or 31%
of the project's cost, would be provided by the participating municipalities
and the relevant states under "convenios" (Subproject Agreements) with EBTU
(see paragraph 59).



- 17 -
Procurement
57.       Civil works and goods to be financed under the loan would be pro-
cured through local competitive bidding procedures which, except that contracts
for goods estimated to cost less than US$10,000 equivalent (not to exceed in
the aggregate the equivalent of US$1 million), could be procured on the basis
of at least three price quotations. These arrangements are satisfactory. The
use of local procedures -- instead of international competitive bidding -- is
justified by the type of works and variety of equipment involved, and the fact
that procurement would be through a number of agencies, in relatively small
packages, spread over more than ten cities, and nearly four years. The
average civil works contract is expected to come to about US$250,000 equivalent.
Foreign firms, however, would be allowed to bid under local procedures. With
the Bank's prior agreement civil works could be carried out by the project
executing agencies' own forces. The total value of works so executed is not
expected to exceed US$10 million equivalent, or 4% of total project costs.
For the AGLURB subprojects, the Bank would be afforded an opporttnity for
prior review and approval of the bidding documents, bid evaluations, contract
awards and contracts for the first civil works contract in each city. All
other contracts -- including the low-cost paving program -- would be available
for the Bank's ex-post review. Supervision missions would review a sample of
contracts representing about 40% of the project's total cost, and if any
contract was found inconsistent with agreed procurement procedur,es, the Bank
would have the right to cancel the corresponding portion of the loan.
Disbursements
58.       Bank disbursements would finance 32% of civil works and equipment
contracts under the AGLURB and PROPAV subprojects and 100% of the cost of
technical assistance to EBTU, and of the project management units in each
AGLURB city. However, initially the Bank would disburse against 49% of expen-
ditures for civil works and equipment. After December 31, 1982, this rate
would be adjusted to achieve the desired overall cost sharing of 32% for the
civil works and equipment categories. Higher initial disbursements are
justified by Brazil's exceptionally tight financial situation, and the anti-
inflationary measures being taken by the Government, including a serious
effort to contain public investment expenditures. Disbursements for civil
works and equipment would be made against statement of expenditures from EBTU.
It would be a condition of disbursement for the institutional subproject that
the Bank had approved a program for staff training, and a work plan for the
required consultant services. Disbursements for each AGLURB Subproject would
be conditional upon receipt in the Bank of a satisfactory subproject agreement
between the city, the state and EBTU. In addition, it would be a condition of
disbursement for all AGLURB cities with the exception of the Federal District,
Santos and Sao Luis that the Bank had received from EBTU a satisfactory
appraisal report on the subproject. Disbursement for the PROPAV subproject
would be conditioned on Bank approval of the final designs for the first
component in each of the first three cities. Furthermore, it would be a
condition of disbursement for all PROPAV Subprojects that the Bank had received
EBTU's certification that each project component was consistent with the terms
of the PROPAV Manual and that a satisfactory Subproject Agreement had been



- 18 -
signed between the city and EBTU (Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
The full loan amount is expected to be disbursed over a four-year period
ending in mid-1985.
Project Execution
59.       EBTU would have responsibility for project execution.  It would be
directly responsible for carrying out the institutional subproject, appraising
seven additional AGLURB Subprojects, supervising execution of all the ten
AGLURB Subprojects, operating and supervising the PROPAV program, and
channelling funds for all subprojects. To assure timely implementation of
the project's phased program, EBTU would, by December 31, 1982, enter into
Subproject Agreements with the municipalities and the relevant states, on
terms satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Institutional Subproject.  The institutional subproject would be
managed by EBTU's recently appointed Coordinator of Modernization Studies, who
would be assisted by a support group consisting of representatives from each
of the agency's directorates and the presidency. This working group, already
installed in EBTU headquarters, has the responsibility to manage the reorga-
nization. The coordinator is competent and has adequate experience within
EBTU. Important preparatory steps have already been completed, including
a description of the functions of each unit within EBTU in draft form and
a statement of the new Internal Operating Procedures. A plan for monitoring
EBTU's appraisal and supervision work, together with a management information
system, and baseline data on key performance indicators are under preparation.
Also, to ensure smooth project start-up, EBTU would, not later than June 30,
1981, reorganize its technical and operational directorates, strengthen the
Planning Advisory Unit and set up the Program Coordination Unit (Section
3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, to help coordinate and manage
the proposed project both within the agency and in the participating cities,
EBTU would maintain a project coordinator whose qualifications and experience
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       To assist EBTU in its reorganization, support technical development
and training, and carry out the six studies referred to in paragraph 48, EBTU
would employ consultants whose qualifications, terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). To ensure that the results of the six studies would be ready
during the project's implementation period, EBTU would carry them out by
December 31, 1982 and forthwith review them with the Bank (Section 3.14(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The results of these studies would be reflected,
as appropriate, in modifications to EBTU's Project and PROPAV Manuals (Section
3.14(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Based on one of the above studies --
which concerns the maintenance of urban transport infrastructure -- and taking
into account its review with the Bank, EBTU would formulate an appropriate
maintenance policy for urban transport infrastructure and employ its best
efforts to implement the policy (Section 3.14(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       The AGLURB Subprojects.  The first three subprojects in the Federal
District, Sao Luis and Santos were appraised during the proposed project's
preparation by EBTU's own team assisted by consultants. The Bank found EBTU's



- 19 -
appraisals generally satisfactory, including the selection of the subprojects,
and the quality of the institutional and financial analyses. Detailed engineer-
ing is sufficiently advanced to allow the contracting of civil works and
equipment soon after the proposed loan's approval. Evidence that adequate
funds for the project's 1981 expenditures are being included in the budgets of
EBTU and the relevant states and cities has been received in the Bank, as well
as draft agreements between EBTU and the Federal District, Santos and Sao Luis.
63.       EBTU's new Project Manual referred to in paragraph 47 is essential
for the project's smooth implementation. Its use would ensure sound sub-
project selection, appraisal, economic evaluation, execution, and supervision.
The Manual specifies that only projects with an economic rate of return
greater than 11% would be selected. Bank staff reviewed the Project Manual
during negotiations and EBTU's Board adopted the revised Manual reflecting the
Bank's comments. EBTU would not amend its Project Manual without the Bank's
concurrence during the project's implementation period (Section 3.11 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
64.       Two medium-sized cities remain to be selected by EBTU (paragraph 50)
for inclusion in the AGLURB subproject, and EBTU would, not later than
December 31, 1981, provide the Bank the names of the two cities it proposed,
which would be acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.04(a) of the dr-aft Loan
Agreement). To guide EBTU in the appraisal of cities not appraised by the
Bank, EBTU would apply its Project Manual and, by September 30, 1982, appraise
the remaining seven cities, and submit a report to the Bank for the approval
of each appraisal (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Although
EBTU intends to apply its new Manual to all of its subprojects (not only to
those to be financed under the proposed loan), initially shortage of well
trained staff may delay achievement of this target. To ensure a gradually
increasing compliance with the high standards of the new Manual, EBTU would
apply the Manual to subprojects -- under each of the agency's programs --
representing not less than 45% of the estimated cost of each such program to
be financed in 1982, 60% in 1983 and 70% in 1984 (Section 3.04(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). EBTU would also apply the Manual to supervision work under
the proposed project, the Bank's First and Second Urban Transport Projects,
and all other projects in state capitals (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The supervision requirements of the Manual would also be reflected
in the Subproject Agreements between EBTU and the cities.
65.       The PROPAV Subprojects.  The participating municipalities would
select the low-cost paving subprojects, engineer the designs, evaluate the
investments and execute the works using the new PROPAV Manual (paragraph 53).
Since the use of the Manual would be a key to the success of the low-cost
paving program, EBTU would not modify it without the Bank's concurrence
(Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       EBTU would apply the Manual's terms to the PROPAV subproject
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). During the project's execution,
EBTU would certify to the Bank that each subproject selected was consistent
with its Paving Manual, and the Bank, in the course of its regular supervision
work, would check a representative sample of the subprojects. Because of the
complexities of low-cost paving under Brazil's varied tropical climate and



- 20 -
soil conditions, and in order to evaluate the experience with the manual's
application, EBTU would review with the Bank the experience under the program
and any proposals for the Manual's amendment once a year between 1982 and 1984
(Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). The continued testing and periodic
updating of the Manual would be particularly beneficial in preparing a national
low-cost paving program by 1984. EBTU's performance in this respect would be
an important indicator of its readiness for the selection, appraisal and
supervision of a whole program that would be suitable for a full-scale Bank
sector loan in the future.
Project Benefits and Urban Poverty Impact
67.       Improvements under the AGLURB subprojects would account for 66% of
the project's total cost and are expected to yield high returns on invest-
ment. Economic evaluation of key components of the three subprojects already
appraised by the Bank in the Federal District, Santos and Sao Luis -- account-
ing for 28.5% of the project's total cost -- showed rates of return in excess
of 50%. The estimates are based only on quantifiable savings in vehicle
operating costs and travel times -- valued at 30% of the passengers' wages.
Considering that these first three cities represent most typical conditions
encountered in Brazil's medium-sized cities, and that EBTU's Project Manual
would ensure sound selection of subprojects, the remaining seven cities are
expected to yield similarly high rates of return.
68.       Since the project's low-cost paving component representing 29.6% of
its total cost would be carried out in cities not yet identified, it has been
evaluated on the basis of a similar paving program prepared for Greater Sao
Paulo and the economic returns of similar components under the ongoing First
Urban Transport Project and the Medium-sized Cities Project. Taking into
account quantifiable benefits, the estimated returns would range between 25%
and 70%. This high range reflects both the relatively high traffic volumes
and the fact that up to now most bus routes in low-income areas are unpaved.
69.       The proposed project would also have an important social impact
among Brazil's urban poor. Subproject components which are located in areas
where 70% of the households earn less than three times the regional minimum
wage, or which benefit bus passengers, most of whose earnings are below the
above relative poverty level, would account for a substantial portion of the
investments under the project. Taking these as a measure of the project's
poverty impact, it has been estimated that 58% of the subprojects would fall
in this category in the Federal District, 74% in Santos, and 96% in Sao Luis.
Compliance with the EBTU Manuals' criteria in the cities to be selected during
project execution would assure a substantial poverty impact in those cities as
well. The low-cost paving program would have an urban poverty impact of 100%,
and the proposed project, as a whole, a weighted average of 75%. This is,
perhaps, one of its most significant features.
70.       Estimated savings in fuel consumption owing to urban transport
improvements under the project would have an appreciable impact on Brazil's
balance of payments. An estimated 48,200 barrels of crude oil would be
saved each year in the three cities already appraised, which -- at current
prices -- amount to US$1.6 million (included in the benefits mentioned in



- 21 -
saved each year in the three cities already appraised, which -- at current
prices -- amount to US$1.6 million (included in the benefits mentioned in
para. 67). These saving levels, extrapolated to the ten cities, would
total some US$10.5 million per year.
71.       Finally, the proiect's institution building component would generate
important -- although not readily quantifiable -- benefits to EBTU, the par-
ticipating cities and states and, indirectly, the country's whole urban
sector. The measures built into the institutional subproject would be essen-
tial to improving EBTU's efficiency.
Project Risks
72.       The project faces some risks concerning EBTU's capacity to appraise
the seven remaining cities, supervise a total of ten subprojects and execute
the low-cost paving program -- in addition to managing the agency's overall
investment program which is expected to be more than three times as large as
the proposed project during the next four years. To minimize these risks,
appraisal and supervision procedures have been clearly established in the
Project Manual, which would be applied by EBTU. Failure to select the PROPAV
subprojects correctly could also cause wasting of resources, and inadequate
supervision could result in delays and cost overruns. Although the total
length of the sections -- some 500 km -- is large, what is required is a
repetitive application of relatively simple procedures in simi]Lar circumstances.
These procedures, prepared by EBTU recently, are set out in the new PROPAV
Manual.  The range of expertise required for the Manual's use i.s limited and,
once learned, would be easy to apply. Furthermore, with the support of the
project coordinator and the Bank's review of project preparation and procure-
ment decisions, the probability of failure has been much reduced.
73.       Another risk concerns the cities' capacity to execute efficiently
their own subprojects. The establishment of management units and the provi-
sion of technical assistance to their staff would strengthen the executing
capacity in the participating cities. Moreover, the use of the Project and
PROPAV Manuals, EBTU's stepped-up supervision functions, as well as the
appointment of a full-time project coordinator would each help the municipal
authorities to better implement the project. The changes in EBTU's organiza-
tion under the institutional subproject would reinforce these measures,
thus reducing the possibility of failure to an acceptably low level.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Empresa Brasileira
dos Transportes Urbanos (EBTU) and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Bank and the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Report of the Comittee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
75.       The main features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. There is
no special condition of effectiveness. Special conditions of disbursement
for the institution building subproject, the transport infrastructure and
operation component and the low-cost paving program in low-income areas are
discussed in paragraph 58.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 11,1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                   page 1
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEI) AVEACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTE)
TOTAL           8512.0
AGRICULTURAL    2067.2                                MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDL.E INCOMF
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CAPRBEAN            EUPOPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 320.0       570.0    1690.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     332.0       474.0     794.0                   1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     71.5        95.2     119.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1        55.9      63.3                     63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     201.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       345.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 10.                        8.0        11.0      14.0                     28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     44.0        49.0      58. 0                    81. 7                   129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.6        42.6      41.7                    41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                         53.8        54.3      54.9                    54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         3. 1      3.4                      3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GRCWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         2.9       2.8                      2.7                      1. 6
URBAN                              5.5         4.8       4.5                     4. 1                      3. 3
CRDDE BIRTR RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.0         38.0      36.0                     34.8                     22. 8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     11.0         9.0       9.0                      8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.6         2.6       2.4                      2.5                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       111.0     203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0     112.0                    106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  101.0       104.0     107.2                    107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          61.0        62.0      62.7                    65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       34.0        34.0      35.1                     33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0        10.0       9.0                      8.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   57.0         61.0      62.0                     63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..        ..                    66. 5                     55. 9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        56.3       77.1                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        77.7      88. 8                   80.4
RURAL                               ..        29.0      56.8                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.9      64.8                    62.3
URBAN                               ..        86.1      83.7                     79.4
RURAL                               ..        26.5      31. 7                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3600.0      1910.0    1700.0                   1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3220.0        ..                   1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            309.0       262.0     253.0                    480.3                    289.7
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        18.0        ..                      ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                              5. 1        4.8       4.9
URBAN                               ..         4.6       4.7
RURAL                               ..         5.2       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.1
URBAN                               ..         1.0 
RURAL                               ..         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7        47.6      63.0
URBAN                               ..        75.6      84.9
RURAL                               ..         8.4      19.2



- 24 -                                       ANNEX I
page 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAl. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        RFFERENCE C?OUPS (WEICITE) AVF.RAOS
- MOST RECE'NT ESTIMATE)
HOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN         EUROPE
U'tc.vrIOE
AD,JS1ED LNROLLME!T RATIOS
PRIMARY:     ?OTAL                  95.0        125.0      90.0/t                    99.7                      105.9
HALE                  97.0        125.0       89.0/c                  101.0                      109.3
FEMALE                93.0        125.0       90.0/c                   99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         26.0      24.0/c                    34.4                       64.0
MAL.E                 11.0         26.0       22. 0/c                  33.5                       71. I
FEIALE                10.0         26.0      26. 0/c                   34.7                       56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0      47.0Oc                    38.2                       2P.8
PUJPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PR1MMARY                            33.0         28.0      22.0                      30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                           13.0         13.0      11.0                      14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.2       75.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7. 0       25.0       52.4                      43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.0        124.0     155.0                     245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOt'SANID
POPULATION                          17.0         64.0      93.0                      84.2                      118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAIIY GEbERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         37.0      39.0                      63.3                       93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9       2.6                        ..                        5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22872.9        30057.3   37704.7
FEMSALE (PERCE!T)                   17.5        20.4       22.0                      22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9         45.6      41.0                      37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PEr.CENT)                 14.8         18.3      22.0                      23.5                       29. 3
PARTICIPATION RA.E (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6      31.5                      31. 5                      40.9
,MALE                                 52. 7        50.3      49.5                      48.9                       55.9
FEIALE                                11.2         12.8      13.6                      14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 4         1. 4       1.4                      1.4                        1. 0
INCO?E DISTRIBUTION
PERCEt;T OF PRIVATE INCOilE
*  RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0           63.5      62.0.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8            3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8            9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..      150.0                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOUE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      465.0                     474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      332.0                     332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATFD POPULATION BELCH ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOPHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Fot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averares for each Indicator are population-weighted arithretic means.  Coverage of countries
waong the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
Lb   Unless othervise noted, data for 19C0 refer to any year beteen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwe-n 1969
and 1971; ard for Jiost Recent E,tir,te, betu.een 1974 and 1978.
/c   Beginning 1973 prlr.ary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 Instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier yoars; therefore most recent estinates are not comtparable vith earlier data.
Most rece,.t estb-ate of GNP per capita ls for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1960



- 25 -
ANNEX I
r-
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nates:  Although the data erect    ra   souches gene.rallty judged cte. mshs autharitetico and o1iable, it should else be eared that rhey may eon be inter-
cotia..lly ocayerable because of the  Ilak of standardised dafiattie ...e.d ou....pts used by different ouriain colleting the data.  The dat.arse, asee-
thl -o aful to descibe ocirra ofmgitd,indIcate recode, aud eh---oerle  ce -cmjor differne   emson Inies.
The   1  -uneo  geoucs are 51) the . s   onr  group of abssuh ..b c ...eIlly and (2) a country group  ith somewhat highec  -agean  lacme, than tie ceace  great
oftecbet _oucto  Seeeyr for "Capital tu_pla  Oit  Enpoersta" geoop where 'Middle tecic  NaIth Attica and Middle fuss" ha ahoes  because . atIshrage
uorcoculrral af..     fiet)    Sr  he refernc  grou9 p data ohe  rrae  are  .poyleoho- weightd e-ihnttr..  mean our eac..h icdi-t-a and sh.- only wham  t
lnano ha'lf at rho couatrh    it a goEy banh.  dateafPo  that tadhoatr. Si_uo  the cu..ereg  of coa..lerte   -nog the tediatoo. dayenda on the eeilbihlty of
danadi   a nfoa,  cuto  meet he e.et.hued ic relating atagn  of. one. indicator to eothnr.  liens eeasare ono  nea  in romparing she  .els
of ace iudicec o  actlmaug               oetyad refuencegrus
LADl AReo (thousand nq.kn.5                                                                  foyia~ttotce PhE nicce  - -Pny1uathn  dilidna hy nearr 05 practlicng phy-
Total - hotelsrfc  ease ompciuig laud area and inland nature.                                siolun  qualified from e medloe1 school at aai-eity leve.
A,ci-1lcrl.1   Eanltaoagilttlaaaedemoaiyrprceoy                                           Fuacleico  per  -cIa Ienn Fpalat-ino diided by member of peettialig
for or.P., Pstur-, narkac aud klchne gardees on to lie fallow; 10907 dayta.              e     ad femle grad eats Purse, Prac.tical nurses  end ass istantnus.
Pann'ieta"etds Lt Bl ad -taint. urba. end teem   - IPepaletie   (letal.
lNP PiER CAPITA (USS) - GNP pet aepina estimates at cededn  mnest stines. tel-                 washe, end  retelivi1dedbythat: reapstlve number af hospitel beds
o-loted by san   --rcta- menhod as World Bmek Atlas (1977-70 beats); 1980,                    tailable In pablo and peloste geec-1 ned epsisli"d hospital end tm-
1970, sad  I979dnie.                                                                         hebilitehtan  -enters.  Hospitals are establIabhmets perugemetlyaeteffed
by  ainnnephyaltias.  th iseespeevidleg pstneipmlly aesldial
COlDlY CONShf9TIOO PER CAPITA. - Annual aneseptien of onsMetIul. enery (cosl                   cartar  ens Tinoladd.  Rural hespitals,heevt inainde health and -.diel
ead lcgnice, pitoisun, uatuai gee ard hyra-  auPtitn  an0  97,-d geehema  alec   catata aec Pera tly scuffed by a phymitem  (bus by a msdiael aastetnan
cr1100  i  ktagreof oeSeqivaen   per caia   OE,lh,ed  90nre,mdie  er)eib offer in-Pethet acanemdetti  end provide   t
dUATa N                                                                                       United SATSTC  a ugs atmdical facilities.  Per statisntial pa-p-e, urbanh. b ip-
T.l:1   Mid-Ye-  (.illi.oe                                           h. tI'~~bnpcel  loalor url haspital   sr   meical and  te-nity unset..
Totel Ourulatlon, ind-Yeuo (nillione) Au of July 1; 10,lt.ed 1978                 t . iaaEaean   esie  End P""-1 toteS  cuahr o  edcisiedhospienats dsohdetrgs
Ura Polai      - arca  of total) - Ratio of urban to ceral population;                   h-i..d,ddb   h    --o                     .
diferntde:ettteof urhe"een   ma yaffect ...ePerahilitY of d.tc                  HOSIoNGt
ouagca cr100;1960, lO7t, en  1008 data.                                                 Acerac  ElSe- of HE...aht1d Soprsoa ..Per householdS - rucsl. urb.- and esea-
Fouacc   roD    otosA householId co..entet  of a group of individuals aa c.hats lining q-erass
Poetioc.1  n  initi.I yea  dlt - Crotten popeetin projetions era  ied Oh 198Sf            rd their nabl caml.  A bounder at ledger nay or may not be imaluded is
toa  pyltinb  age nod tns     loand   their netait  endfetIlty rates.          the house.hold for sttietitl.paenu
trjoho   eantr  fo   enaiy  as  ouprts  of thres level  nes-                       Ave..R.dscubet ofpten  perro  -htlura.nd tare1 - Averge  na
nr lf  aaneoY - b-rchticraehug with Io..ntny'n Pe  caiebh-n                            e  at yar...t yar eno. IL;.1 alberic, ad tural occupied aomvetinne
loe.ca   eal   i o" ..ye.t.y steb itisug at 00.5 years.  Tinh,   u             deelliuge, terccl.telannldnnpnaettatts
'el5a   for  Ierlity o  race alno ha_tehar_  loe1e assuing docl ime Enuoccpied prl..t.a.I    _tr..
fertility  -ccodiug to ironer  itwe  and peant taily plauing peofatn.c...                rst..anciy(ton   fdnllg)-thl ebn   n   aa 
teche . cutry ha than  -iseged nan of  hb... nine, robi-atioe of mattei,y                Caatea   ulig    ihestluyi  ligqatt   sptete
an   erlity mends ion prajooti-n  -Pot05                                           of. totl, citn   n  rrldoltg ltespactivly.
Sthe t heer  rnateasi.o    n     tehnayrP'ltn   ht   sn   rnh   ic
te birhrtei    ait  the death rate, and else tie age strutrr-                       lOOt
mlsocta.This in achievd only after fertility rates decline to                Adicatadfoointlio
thelrysnatler   dui eTc                 . epouteiln rate, whnechgetai                   Oi-mertao -                -oa,mle and female - Erase total, male and femal
aniate  ohtIehase o  th  prjared   hanrselnncs  t te Ptulhio        prmay achoul-aga PoPa1etlene; nota1Y incldes children aged h
.c lt  yer  OP,  n  th ateo  d itne of fertility rats to replae-_                          yert ban adjusted Ant diff.erne  lengths ad yialary eda_titha; far
Yeach ltiace y                                                                              cnunttt i    ..    T.year   c-iobt ueiyoersat it   dadutei- ear1 ailmet may tared 150 percent
PP1tear  DrtoaypouainEmrahd-iitunuhceeiny  .yp.ton                                            eaecoeppl " rebeloo bov.                  h  of ficial erhoal age.
Popalucioc Seencty                                                  aducetioonnqahr~P~pi'ena   lean1t fou  yssr   oapprove.d pttary inteuntiam;
Pot eq. len. agnlculeurel land -Computed as above f-or egriruCcuaP.ledd-rab-td.d.                          peed.gs dnrall
only.q  kVocationali.pl  Q-ki  ..t,(10hetr.)Iq an                                                         7mn  ypercen  of ag     sdae;      'entea  isnilt-atlu       y
Pocul1sto- bAr Structure fpercat) -Chiltdrn SE-li ya..ne), curbing-age  (51-                 V1includesehnoh  hedusriel  noohr                  IVrm    hiiusaetdp
hA  ru), eadtr   td (85 years an-oe) as percentages of nid-yes. peya-                        dnryoeneytmroaacndyintuias
loulen; 198,197I1, an.d 1078 data.                                                         Fau-ace   ai      rmr.adsnodr       oieuet   neldi
peer poultin  fu   OESi   8071   n   97-9                                                    oeeocierena
Poualclts   aeSeanl      ra-               oatgochttco   rn    no                       dlh"ttec   at   ortc  - literate adin re SailshensAan   ei
Crude 11th  lata Star thansand) - Annual lIce births-                       P peet-c rhutiuaapad ad nid-yye-Tetv   todPt.  .r.1d i
pcpclatiov; 1051, lOi.an  l          ed t  date  7SSloPrIiba                                      d-- -Y1.   did    yPb.ftecrsith
ocaeln   01   90,  ned0 107 .data.-78                                            Au seating. lea  tht:P sight olrtenat ceclade  anbelame, heasesan
her~j r hua RepreduPcuoh p.rIod- Adi she  bepnlthec    p trnth...  o uaseid-,..         Sai,l       or  (e   t.Ieaadrclhtl-Altpeo   esvr   a   e
tlyrates.;  uuly    c-ya9veeende  i   90  1070, eds1977                                 ivandosdmnogeo tru  publIc  Par tho         i-sned ofpoeltie;- nlds eall-
1onto  cid-hearing      ) ag  A1--I4yas death use bhi-sb-dnof  idevice   00      OTVUhPceONr   crtonn   ocein      t  eevr     rbeduth
Or.. mate oEst in            d name age group..gneu  pubicpe.                                                     touan  po-P...n;           ..cues ucarsemned Ft rs oar
tocacoie ten .i pearst whenrgsttleo             aeoninffa,
PtASOitfIiONeonnCeclro    crcenn  onoelatlen   - Sheen. the                                                                                                     r snee aioda
orditioc, ofal  oo  omodtt PP:"otonIno -de  need an   eed I  7                                           (fPcaion d...e peimeprjly co   -eodn  general. meno sif aaiee
In .r.nodn  year heeds -Year digiectevir prmrygos  eg 196neca                      Redno Rhn  'daiy   fE   per   tleu   orta sek
FPer ceNts  buroic of ttlottns Ien1aptlof rPrathtmeodSof Computedif to
F- argy ._P  aq dolen    :e_t of en .fudsupies aliable   fin  y counry  enc pitgae    ;.aot ottiio-1                        -   i   el ~    e   -1-rt         o   .
rufott, at dchetfg  gn ete_i.  se   aple   moueaimlfndindm                           tr   forotsa    .. cod unepoedt bun .  - nluin  houewives.bl itudna   -1.t
aecrcr  aIae   y  h   ae years physiloical a-odn dfcc                    . n t.u          ..c.- 10) a data.   dli-
utyad hdthc     eidr    enioa-tp,         apecae,bdIFlic,t 5                      FmaeSsent -I th.oin  ...holn for  a             "'ranael" ofl toabae   o
a     aowce df Egoe  fnee  p_t etdyadOSgeno  animal and                          P         Coi iot-arate- Scoset - onl,mae  end fSai-Path epsiea
tieastte   iotoe  f7   rn  a   ne   r rdai  and--   eed 21gns  f                               "danag ly of   tou I ctsadfml pI tfaiued of allpaeneepenin
hand    ~            ~           ~           ry food farm;ii9it-Spp1....and19FF dita
yet0d      orcisalyfoanmledose-Feensploffodt                                               aesn rrrrtocipputo,an  lungalP :                     tiesedI Pe si
Chid d (cue i-i1) hteis  laa  re  hosad  -Anea   eae  e  touan   n-tdh nta  lbr  ers
tre -dt   nnie. rmlf  tables;PghiO,`191  an  177daa                              Af ...f liS       AtStildab.P-'h
110 0                                                                          of bouseboldo."t  to 
sn batch; thoU, 1970 erA 1978 data.Id  978d.t.                                                                     r         B-br .
leO  ct vrceity  ate  retehoueed  - Anualdeahs o  infntsunde  on  your   Pllk- ThEt d diihOhUPaEIIli                           -1-..t.di.-t   o
tO 5gm per Ohouneod Ifoc births,                                  estimate.d   Absolu te PvryIom   ee   Cipe   aia      sa   n   ed
Accssho'nf  Ou,Iete (aofent fofd roPelainu -1tubl, uran andtl  prua  -                       bouepeat   uocelviihatan   evlhlodli      llm
can  spl  Sothde oreaned-.k surf nunpwater  or ufeeltn   but  ncooantnnr             Lfedbe. ..   tlsd                               ti    ..P.i.d.
octt  ac  e  tha   foom prosect. inrehlsod I-pe ing  adi asmib. airy Rn.les) an   Satinata  tmaIvd Poao IsemaIcoa 11t  rt. lb; 1960ra -              19ba andena-
pntceote5ns of I' their    b .. re-cnv  p poylatilne lean  r   ._ _tatatepbl          Rua_isly        .oet  fcm   ee  i   n-hrda   vr9iytapr
uuldtYrad has  tici .g mitdEn ta al   tc_s ofthnhos t            trrualaron               pe9os78    noado.ieoucoc   Ura;odi   ein     a    thenaa
- fdY -ight~~~~~~~~~~omiutiejnoec  o  hgerongo  lvngi  uhn abosse.                                                            c.
AI.oo... tospedd dlprrrtnc   par af th  day it feohiete                                    n  enl_P_co  oh poyailatrlue.- (at baa -end toal  whota to "asa              an'
disosa Me p    penaer of1  NetrnespeoriosY poopulaiosd.fi tasrt  dIe.., -,                     -      t.          aIcnmcadSrltteDois
peta tma  iford  the "Itoleotn   n 'tbihdispre SDA w pitior s orbset itdeatmtanity,Pe arnangcia catalysis . and Pr tnt abor Deprtment160
of ohuma Oencr _t a od w tot-atl byeter-bparnsa  -  20sem   9r tie use l of19October7 1881
pi    plotccan  sImi    hluessilaThsntdloes.-oal    I.   .df-I     Pricpti.o



-26 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                              A
Page 4
Population:      122.9      (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita: US51,687   (1979)
Amount                          Avarage Annual Incre-se (%)                            Share of GDP at Market Prices (-  )
Indicator                                         (million USS current)                     (at cen.tant 1970 pnic-s)                                     (at current price-)
1979                   1965-7C      1970-75      1975-80      1980-85            1970     1975      1979      198ib/      1985
National Accounts
Gre.e domestic product!/                               206,043                     7.7         10.6         6.5           5.4            l00.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100.0
Agnic-ltut-                                           19,462                     1.9         5.7           5.3         4.2               8.2       8.7      9.5       9.9         9.4
Induntry                                              65,583                     9.2        11.6          7.1          5.6              29.1      32.6     31.8      31.6        31.8
Services                                              87,636                     8.0        10.7          6.4          5.5              43.0      41.3     42.5      42.6       42.5
Csunnnption                                            163,739                     7.7          9.8         5.7          4.8              76.9      78.6      79.5     79.0        76.3
Grees inventen.t                                        46,530                     9.4         14.6         5.2          5.4              23.5      25.4      22.6     22.6        22.9
Exports of goods and NFS                                15,245                     8.2         11.2         7.3          9.9               6.6       7.4       7.4      7.8         9.7
Inperts of goods and NSI                                19,471                    14.5         17.2         2.8          3.3               7.0      11.4      9.5       9.4         8.9
Gtnes domeneic savings                                  42,304                     7.9         12.9         6.1          6.2              23.1      21.4     20.5      21.0        23.7
A..o'nt                        Average Annoel Inureene (S)                    Conposition of M-erchadise Trade (2)
(million U85 current)                    (at cosstant 1970 prices)                            (at current prices)
1979                          1965-70     1970-75      1975-80                   1966     1978      1975     1980b/
Merchandise Trade
Merchandine  xeports                                   15,244                           7.8         11.5         6.5                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                               6,631                           7.3         8.5         -6.8                     82.9     75.1      61.8      57.9
Nsnofactoree                                          8,613                           7.9        12.2          8.3                     17.1     24.9      38.2     42.1
Merchandise imports                                    17,961                          10.0        13.6          8.3                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                    985                         -3.8         593          24.9                     11.      465       3.0       6.5
Petrole.1                                             6,698                          9.3         14.1          8.3                     14.7     11.2      24.5      52.1
Machinery and equipm.et                               2,242                         22.1         16.8        -15.9                     15.2     21.2      14.0      16.6
Other                                                 8,036                           8.3        12.6         13.5                     58,6     63.1      58.5      24.8
1975      1976       1977       1978      1979
Prices and Teris of Trade
GOP deflator (1970-100)                                289.6     410.9      584.2      809.2   1,229.6
Exchange rate (Cr9tuS))                                  8.1      10.6       14.1       18.0      26.8
Expert prine index (1970-100)                          189.0      218.0     266.0      238.5     262.3
Inpocs prim. index (1970-100)                          221.0      227.0     236.0      241.9     295.0
Terms of trade index (1970-100)                         85.5       96.0     112.7       98.6      88.6
A. 7. of GDP
(at currant prices)
1970      1975           1-
Fublic Finance (Cent-al Government)
Cerret rvne16.6                                                             19.8       20.8
Currant expenditute                                               14.4      15.8       17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         2.2       4.0        3.2
Capital expenditure                                                2.6       3.8        3.7
Financing (net)                                                  -0.4       +0.2       -0.5
1965-70     1970,75      1975-79
Othec Indicators
CNP growth rate (.)                                                           7.7         10.1          5.8
GNP per capita growth rate (.)                                                4.6          7.7          3.0
Energy consumptido  groth rate (7.)                                           7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOR                                                                          2.9          3.9          3.9
Marginal savings rate                                                        20.5         25.          22.7
Inpect elaticity                                                              2.2          1.6          0.3
*/ At  -arket prices; cempessents are net domestic pred-ts     p expressed at factor coat and
seill not add doe to excluaien ot depreciation and indirect tes lenss uhbidies.
h/ Estimate
Ja...py 22, 1981



-27-
AOrEX I
Page 5
BALANCE 0F PAY_ENTO. EXTERNAL CAP17!L ANID DE8T
(million US58 at current price.)
Popoletloc          122.9 nillcon (mid-1979)
GNL' Per Ilcc       US$1,687 (1979)
ACTUAL                                                                                         PROJECTED
1970           1975            1976             1977           1978            1979            t9803/           19111           1982            1983            1984
rent c    cecu  goodand enocc                           -363          -6,702          -6,016          -4,037          -3,999          -9. 774      -12,3289           -,0             -11,59          -11,454         -10 ,50
Epr1to  of goods                                      (2.739)         (8,                952         (12             (    9)         1,244         (12)                 1,7476        (12,944         (,461             2,550
(ccpctrnci gode( (2507                                                ,24)         (,9383)           2,3)          (1,63)          (7,650)       (2.8663             ),429)        (3 0,6 0        (427 6 9,3
Not (.Cl,If  ..io                                     -9930         -1,733          -1,689          -2.188         -3,257          -4740          -,30               -7,893         -9,0)2          10,~270        -11,381
ofotio  1618         p c                           (-284)       (-1,863)        (-2,791)        (-24,15)        (-3,342)        (-5,55))       (-7,ga0)          (-6.14)        (-7,490)        (-9,664)        (-9,620)
186L n oco-fectoc erol net)                           -495           -1,419        -1,748           -1,576         -    8          -23927         -2,206            -2,8            -2,331          -2,461          -2,199
NoctheroocroroaL n e L                                    214485       1,9950          2 627            -630             440           3,2639         3 499             1,353 2  1  -272  17                               So
lcreocecconoc  bleoerv                                 -1562          -4,790          -6,017          -47,327         -5,627           9.77        -12,9              -11,52         -,149            -11404         -10,4
pcccacocnontUncorZ~~~~~~~~~           92             692             99              8 10           906           2,200          1,262             1.74            1,64            2,239           2,550
94LT Icos 7cc                                             767          3,762           1 b023           ,63            8,619           4    5         5,451            12212           1               12,823          11706
Trti.ce.l   o                                           3           ( 0             (2,052)         (2,648)        (2,793)         (2,736)        (2, )              (3,536)         (4,148)        (4,620          (264)
Fco...  (i7                                                                         (Iod9e (4341  (4,52   (6.118)  (21,312)         (g1 8         (97                 6,123)        (166162)       (16,639)
Amoocoec I(6 (-632)                                            1-2.172)        (-3,009)       (-4,13353)      (-3,296)        2-6,353)2(-7,003)                1-7,449)        (69236)                        (
Privste non-guaranteed                             8,~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~197  9,592      1123                                              5600  15,9510
(-blie-  Idco-  acob-dcc)                                               -92-3                                                           -396            568            -4-2,4077
CUtr cplU  1 c. .1                                        246          1,293           2,62 7           -507             440             -66          1, 439             --
Cbh oncoor,          e1-ccnac5'~45                                       950          -2, 344           -630          3,88gg           3,219          3,699            -1,353            -983         -1,188          -1,399
4/tl 8' ^    oi' N4LT    n    1.142          4,036           6,594           7,2 3 6        11,826           9,688          6,                8,264           9,5247         16,435          11734
OoRocca        o.9                                                                          6.3             7.             16.5                           3.6               3.8             3,7             3.7             3.6
ACTUAL
1974            1975            1676           1977            1979            1979
toEr-al cobi
TotsIdeb    cscedc sdibued                                            17,76           21,920          26,984          32,224          43.74           49,93/
Public sod roblicly guareotned                     9,39~~~~~~~:54  12328          15,851          19,218          27,223
Offiie1 ooccce                                                    3,276           3,854           4,320           4,612           5,229
1102                                             ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~(871)  (1093)  (1.217)  (1,413)  (1.615)
oher-                                                             (2,5            (271)           (3 ,103)       (3,99           (3,64)
Prloaresocco                                                       6,118          8,424           11,301         14,6906         21,994
Ui-sec n-g08                                                                         9,592P          11, 133        13,             1439531S
Ucdebrbeod derbt )poblic oc1y)                                         2,524X          2,8             3 446           4,004           4,9.8
G-ce  Debu-e-ntc
Tote  gros  diebuco-nto  cf fAT loeoe                                  7:,254          5,932           0.0312          6,6            14,105          01,5466!
Publcc sod publicly guarn-nd                                         2,37            3,731           4,624           4,610'         20,336
Official    c     rdit                                               408             396             368             167             413
1I0D                                                                  4 7            250             123             299             275
Olhec our          1139                                                              119             111              92             16
.r..c..orc                                                  2.43            2,966           3,972          4,062           6,532
Prioocoooo-guocaotoed                                                4,317           2,201           3,406          4,146            3,749
Dobt Sccice
Total dobit   3ncccce                                                   ,                                 00           6382                           10,812
Icccereec  (gcooel                                (~~~~~~~~~~~~~ll~1,90)  (1,883)  ('2,091        (2,482)         (3342           (326 1)
Pepoocceco 7. U Ucpccce 4 SP                                       38.8            43.0            47,.1          31 .4           64.              72.6
Peycccceo  7.1 oc 467l                                                 3.1            3.3             3,6             4.1             4.17            S.9
Ali...   .         r         c 0 loc  17.                                 10.6              9.0            6.0             8.3             9.8
COticca i oorc                                                            7.0            7.8             7.8             8.0             7,7
A-ra8e natu y oU           Ic.o.                                          10.9             8.7            1
4/ ticlel eourccd-  24.6                                                                18.4            16.             16.6            141 
F--                                                  ~~~~      ~     ~~~       ~~~~~~~9. 7  5.8  7.0  8.0             9e6
206 Gcoodsornl
DID DOD""cs  00  (TI5.                                                                      I50            4,5             4,43.36
JIBID disbt e,oc dcce bgos d.i-brett   (I34                                                 36             2.2             3.35.                           2.8
2906 dab  eeroicn)totel debt secolce  (1)               ~~~~           ~~~2.4  2.3       3.3            4.0             2.9             2.0
Ae f1 ciccce  debt oucten.diog
at  -n  goesao   1976-
Debt Stcucuc
6tauitystocc   c  debt otadlng86.
Ko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fbr 19812
Motutteedonnti-          1   er
I/   E.tina-
2/   Unla .cg          .. cot.d Proflte
11   E-cldicg d.ol -a-loti.c adjunt-e-  cod ooolat-o   oU d-tsiio gold
C)   IncldInig gclde and dollac coboti-U  nd)-t_enc
5/   Gccds oly
Cl    cta -it .o...sileble
Febroay 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of December 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower                Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-seven loans fully disbursed                                  1,552.1
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0            1.1
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement        6.7           0.0
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0           11.0
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        42.3            6.1
1008   1974  Cia. Ilidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0           20.9
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5           12.0
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0           13.5
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0           23.0
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0           30.5
1152  ,1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0           38.2
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture           23.0           9.1
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways              75.0          18.2
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0              9.3
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0           43.4
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0           24.0
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           50.0            0.2
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de             Power                46.5            0.3
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300    1976  Eletrobras                        Power                 50.0            9.8
1302    1976  Brazil                            Nutrition              19.0          13.2
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply              40.0           11.8
1317    1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry         83.0           83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                         Power                 82.0           27.1
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development   42.0             17.1
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer            64.0           39.0
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer            55.0            4.0
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                            Education             32.0           25.4
1488    1977  Brazil                            Rural Development   17.0             13.2
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                 110.0           96.6
1537    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   24.0             21.0
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power                130.0          114.0
1557    1978  Brazil                            Roads                114.0          101.3
1562    1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals        85.0           42.6
1563    1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport        88.0          64.1
1568    1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension   100.0             91.7



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of December 31, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            33.0
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               85.2
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               97.9
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          67.7
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            24.9
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0         106.6
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            38.3
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          26.7
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         110.0
1822 /1 1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                11.4.0        114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           159.0
1850 /1 1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         139.0
1867 /1 1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          32.0
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            63.0
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         125.0
1924 /1 1980  Brazil                           Rural Development  '56.0            56.0
1939 /1 1980  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          54.0
Total                                               5,393.1 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  698.3
Total now outstanding                               4,694.8
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            44.6              1.2
Total now held by Bank                              4,693.6
Total undisbursed                                                 2,626.0
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
Page 3
-30-
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                 Obligor                                       Type of Business           Amount in US0$  illion
Year                                                                                                         Loans    Eqgity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                        Electrical Eqsipment        2.00       -         2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                             Pulp and Paper              1.20       -         1.20
1958               D. L. R. Plasticos de Brasil, S. A.                           Automotive Parts            0.45       -         0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A.                              Motor Vehicles              2.45       -         2.45
Induatria e Conercie
1959               Coxpanhia Hineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                  Cement                      1.20       -         1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S. A.                                      Pulp                        4.00       -         4.00
1966/1968/1972    Aces Villares, S. A.                                           Steel                       8.00      1.93       9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarieene., S. A.                           Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41       7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Conercio                     Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03      11.25
de Fertiliz-ntes
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S. A.                                     Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88       8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S. A. Iodustria e Comercio                      Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88       8.38
1971               Oxtteno, S. A. Industria e Comercio                           Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44       6.04
1971               Rio Greede - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                     Pulp                        4.90       -         4.90
1972/1975          Companhie do Cimento Nacional de Minas                        Cezent                     29.14      3.20      32.34
1977/1981          Co Spanhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                 Steel                      76.97    11.22       98.19
1973               Capital Market Development Fund -FUMCAP                       Capital Market              5.00       -         5.00
Development
1973/1978         ERpresa de Desenvolvimaento de Reuesos                         Nickel Mining and          85.00      8.34      93.34
Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.                                    Refining
1974               Industrias Villares, S. A.                                    Elevators and               6.00       -         6.00
Industrial Equipment
1974               Fabrica do Teidon Tatuape, S. A.                              Textiles                   31.00       -        31.00
1975/1979          Capu-va Carbonos Industries Ltd.                              Carbon Black                6.18      1.19       7.37
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                       Petrochemicals             10.00       -        10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                Textiles                    6.45      1.00       7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S. A. - Teatil Catarinense do Nordeste                Testiles                   16.20       -        16.20
1977               PMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                              IrSn and Aluminum          20.00       -        20.00
Castings
1977               Mineracao Rio do Martre  . A.                                 Minim8                     15.00       -        15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                      Iron and Steel              7.0      3.0        10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motoree e Veicules  S. A.                     Maors  Vehieles            60.00    5.00        65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                             Ready-made Garments         2.00      -          2.00
1980               Dende de Pare S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura.,                   Palm-Oil                    3.50    1.00         4.50
Induetrie e Comercio de Oelaginosas
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                    Iron and Steel              5.00      -          5.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                   Chemicals and              15.00    2.00        17.00
Petrochmicals
1980               Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                     Chemicals and                -       0.25        0.25
P eterocheomical s
1980               Sotave A-aaonia Quiaica e Mineral S/A                         Fertilieers                16.00    4.00        20.00
1980               Polisul Petroquimica                                          Chemicals and              15.00    5.00        20.00
Petrochemicals
1981               Brasilpa-                                                     Money and Capital
Markets                            1.50        1.50
Total Grass Conoit-ects                                                                 482.24   62.27       544.51
Less Cancellatians, Termi-ati-os, Repayments and Sales                                  332.32   11.56       343.88
Total Commitneets Now Held by IFC                                                       149.92   50.71      200.63
Total   udisbrsed                                                                        96.20   14.00       110,20



-31-
M{NEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of December 31, 1980, there were 49 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected by end-1980. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is being covered by additional
allocations from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
The final disbursement is expected shortly.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services. The project has taken much longer than expected to
complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles from the state to COLONE, the executing agency,
and subsequently to settlers. However, the first 883 land titles
were issued to settlers during October 1980. Cost overruns presently
amount to about 240% of appraisal estimate. The final disbursement
was made on January 20, 1981.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the generating units is
expected to be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due
to geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 39% over
the appraisal cost estimate, due mainly to a substantial increase in
the size of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of
civil works.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979,
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds were prepaid by the Government,
reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commitments
under this loan were almost at a standstill as a result of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down in indus-
trial investments. The original Closing Date was postponed once--
from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In view of the slow
disbursement, and the fact that commitments under Loan No. 1317-BR
had not yet started, the Bank decided to allow the Closing Date to
lapse, and has cancelled the amount of US$11,737,035.97, correspond-
ing to the uncommitted balance of Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30,
1979. The Borrower was permitted to draw down until December 31,
1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30, corresponding to the
amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30, 1979 against
approved sub-projects. The undisbursed balance of this amount
has now been cancelled and the financing of the approved subprojects
will be completed under Loan 1317.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Government
proposals to expand the project content in light of cost savings
accrued during execution are currently being reviewed by the Bank.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to carry out its investment program
effectively.



-33-                        ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  May 15, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks,
detailed engineering studies for road construction and road
rehabilitation are substantially completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and
Rio Grande do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the
72 weighing stations (Phase I) is suffering delays because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government. The
closing date originally December 31, 1979 has been postponed to
December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector.
Substantial changes were made resulting in better management and
control of the project. The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; CLosing Date:
December 30, 1983. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance of the
availability of sufficient federal funding because of the priority
assigned to the steel sector by the federal government, no further
delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is US$1.7 billion
which is 44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project
remains economically justified. Following reformulation of the
project description to reflect the current situation, the Closing
Date was postponed to December 30, 1983 to allow the Borrower
adequate time to complete the project and to draw down the loan.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. A series of major contracts, some recently
signed by CODEVASF, others in the process of being awarded,
should result in accelerated and more regular disbursements in
the period ahead. The Bank has agreed to a CODEVASF proposal
to replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of several flood plain areas which suffered
heavily from floods in 1979. Land acquisition has been carried
out in all flood plains but one, which is planned to be expro-
priated in 1981.  Negotiations are continuing between CODEVASF
and CHESF to enable discharges from the Sobradinho dam to be
programmed so as not to hamper construction work in the Lower
Sao Francisco area.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. FEPASA's operations
continue to improve. Freight traffic has increased 42% during the
first six months of 1980 compared with a similar period in 1979.
The railway has reduced its operating cost by 20% in the past
year due to reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
FEPASA's financial position, however, continues to remain weak
because of its high debt service. FEPASA and the Sao Paulo state
government are preparing investment and financial plans to put
FEPASA on a sound financial footing. The Bank is monitoring this
process closely.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage,
support to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and
inland fisheries. Serious droughts in 1979 and 1980, coupled
with delays in the release of funds, have slowed down the imple-
mentation of Phase II.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Fifteen sub-loans involving twelve different
states have been approved, committing the full amount of the loan.
Construction has been completed in two states, Goias and Bahia.
Construction is underway in five additional states, Minas Gerais,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraiba, Alagoas and Santa Catarina. Twenty-five
percent of the physical work foreseen under the project, about 1,600
kms, is now completed. Sub-loans are fixed in ORTN terms (Indexed
Accounting System), but the ORTN lost about 40% of its purchasing
power in 1980, and the sub-borrowers (states) are having to finance
all cost overruns. This is causing serious difficulties to the
states. The Bank is reviewing with Government the financial partici-
pation of the involved agencies in order to ease the financial
burden on the states and to maintain the implementation schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Progress in project implementation was steady
during the first half of 1980. However, several restrictions
placed on hiring of new staff, including local consultants, import
restrictions and reductions in the number of staff participating
in either long- or short-term training programs were all made
effective during mid-June 1980. These controls which have been
instituted as part of the government's economic stabilization
program are adversely affecting the implementation of this
project. Required corrective measures are being discussed with
the Government.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment. the project
has no financing gap. Final withdrawal application has been received
in the Bank and is being processed. Upon payment, expected shortly,
the loan will be then fully disbursed.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. The final dis-
bursement was made on February 10, 1981.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection
of low income households have been widely exceeded. Substantial
improvements in the management of the project companies have been
achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control and planning
of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. Improvements in the implementation of
certain components observed since mid-1979 have generally been
maintained, but other areas (lending to nutritious foods industries,
nutrition research, and training) continue to fall short of expecta-
tions. A reformulation of the project, a reallocation of loan
proceeds, and a postponement of the Closing Date has now been
agreed.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete. The Closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the existence of competing credit
lines at subsidized rates and Government's policy of prefixing
monetary correction unrelated to the actual inflation rate have so
far rendered the balance of this loan unusable on the conditions set
out in the Loan Agreement. The Government has recently expressed
the intention to follow a revised monetary correction system where
the level of indexing would more nearly reflect the level of infla-
tion and which will be more in line with the conditions of the Loan
Agreement. Formal agreement on this subject is to be concluded
shortly, making new subloan commitments possible.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing close to appraisal forecast.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Mainly as a result of administrative diffi-
culties, participation in this project by landless producers was
initially significantly lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The estimated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977;_Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 30, 1981. The project has been physically completed, and
the facilities are being tested and commissioned. The Closing
Date has been postponed to March 30, 1981 to allow for completion of
trial runs before final payments are made on certain equipment and
service contracts.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of certain training centers is proceeding well, but
the hotel training component continues to encounter implementation
difficulties. In view of expected cost savings, the Bank is
presently processing amendments to the legal documents to reallocate
funds within the SENAI, SENAC, and SENAR component which would
increase training opportunities beyond those originally planned.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Clo3sing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and land purchase has now started for a
first small group of farmers. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortage of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are difficulties in
administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is well advanced, and is expected to be completed in
accordance with the appraisal targets.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978-
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the last 18 months, the situation has
recently begun to show signs of marked improvement. Project admin-
istration has been reorganized, agricultural services are being
emphasized, the land titling process has been launched and an
evaluation of the lagging water supply and health cormponents is
being planned.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding Part A of the project (CEMIG) the
last supervision mission found that delay in project execution
was now also due to financial difficulties which originated in
low tariff levels that gave CEMIG a 7.9% rate of return on remu-
nerable investment instead of the minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian
legislation. All the available funds were channelled to the
Emborcacao hydro project which is considered CEMIG's first priority
in the construction program and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. Parts B and C (CELESC and
ESCELSA) have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed two years.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980. However, since then works have been
suspended because of financial constraints imposed by the federal
government. Rescheduling of the works is being discussed with the
Government. The maintenance program in the state of Parana is
progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station program
will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR) has been
completed and the effects monitored. Project completion could be
delayed by one year.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Porto Alegre sub-
project is the furthest advanced.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved.  Ihe Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well, although recent import restrictions
are expected to have some delaying effect.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After promising first year results, particularly in agricultural
extension and credit, project activities were seriously disrupted
in mid-1979 with a change in the state government and subsequent
dismissal of numerous project-funded staff. Restaffing has now
been practically completed, and improved support of the Project
Unit by the state government has increased its authority and
effectiveness. However, several components including the land
purchase component are still in the early stages of implementation.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met.
Difficulties are being encountered in meeting the sites and services
targets, and the National Housing Bank is preparing a proposal that
will offer a solution.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway. However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.



-40-
ANNEX II
Page 13
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very close
to first year targets. An action plan has been agreed to seek
solutions to very slow implementation of the colonization com-
ponent.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to initial delays in the release of
counterpart funds and in the development of a strong project
coordination unit. Implementation is, however, now underway for
most components.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. An acceleration of disbursements should result
from contracts signed for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks in three flood plain areas. The recent reor-
ganization of the CODEVASF regional directorate has placed a
young, competent team in charge of protection, irrigation and
drainage works. There is a continuing need, however, to strengthen
CODEVASF's capacity to supervise assistance provided by various
state and federal agencies, and to follow-up on the implementation
of the rice drying, storage and processing component.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Five sub-projects committing about twenty percent of the loan have
been approved which will benefit the states of Pernambuco, Ceara,
Espiritu Santo, Acre, and Sergipe. Seventeen other sub-project appli-
cations have been received by the National Development Bank (BNDE).
The feasibility studies for eight of these sub-projects are at an
advanced stage of preparation. As for Loan 1207-BR, the implementa-
tion of this project will depend on suitable measures being adopted
to ease the financial burden on the sub-borrowers (states) considering
loss of purchasing power of the ORTN especially in 1980.



-41-
A@NEX II
Page 14
Loan No.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  JS$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. The project has experienced initial
delays, but two of the three subprojects have now beean declared
eligible for disbursement and procurement is now undierway.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December ]6, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project:       Approximately one year
(b)  Project prepared by:       EBTU
(c) First presentation
to the Bank:               June 1979
(d) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:         July 1980
(e) Completion of
Negotiations:              February 20, 1981
(f) Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:        June 30, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) EBTU to inform the Bank of any major transport investment in any
of the ten municipalities participating in the AGLURB subproject
(para. 42);
(b) Special condition of disbursement for the institutional subproject
would be the Bank's approval of the training program and consultants'
work program (para. 58);
(c) The following special conditions of disbursement would apply
to the AGLURB subprojects: receipt in the Bank of satis-
factory Subproject Agreements, and -- with the exception of
the Federal District, Santos and Sao Luis -- the receipt of
a satisfactory appraisal of each subproject. Furthermore,
conditions of disbursement for the low-cost paving subprojects
would be as follows: receipt in the Bank of EBTU's certification
that each project component was consistent with the Project Manual,
and that a satisfactory agreement was signed between EBTU and the



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
city; it would be an additional condition of disbursement for the
first three cities that the Bank had approved the final designs
for the first component in each of the first three cities (para. 58);
(d)  EBTU to enter into Subproject Agreements on terms satisfactory to
the Bank, by March 31, 1983, with the participating municipalities
and the relevant states (para. 59);
(e) EBTU to reorganize its technical and operations directorates,
strengthen its Planning Advisory Unit, and to set up a Program
Coordination Unit not later than June 30, 1981 (para. 60);
(f) EBTU to maintain a project coordinator (para. 60);
(g) to assist in carrying out the technical assistance component and
transport studies, EBTU to employ consultants whose qualifications,
terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 61);
(h) EBTU to carry out six studies by December 31, 1982, review them
with the Bank, and -- taking into account the Bank's comments --
(a) amend the EBTU project and PROPAV Manuals as appropriate, and
(b) concerning the maintenance study, to formulate an appropriate
maintenance policy and to employ its best efforts to implement the
policy (para. 61);
(i) EBTU not to amend the agreed Project and PROPAV Manuals without
the Bank's concurrence (paras. 63 and 65, respectively);
(j)  EBTU to select, by December 31, 1981, the two remaining cities
for its AGLURB subproject, such cities to be acceptable to the
Bank, to appraise by September 30, 1982, applying its Project
Manual, the remaining seven cities, and to appraise subprojects
proposed for financing representing not less than 45% of the
estimated cost of each of its program in 1982, 60% in 1983, and
70% in 1984, and, furthermore, to apply its Project Manual in
supervising the proposed project, the First and Second Urban
Transport Projects and all other projects in state capitals
(para. 64); and
(k) EBTU to apply the PROPAV Manual to the low-cost paving program, to
certify that each subproject was consistent with the Manual, to
submit final engineering for the first three cities for Bank approval,
and to review the PROPAV Manual with the Bank once a year between
1982 and 1984 (para. 66).






IBRD 15235
~~~VENEZLJELA   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Q ~~~~MARCHl1BB
'C CL OMBIY'BoaoV,sto.                                           ~                                                                        B RA Z I
'/~~  ~~0S~                                     THIRD URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Mocopo ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~       ~ ~ i     v        
N                                 ~~~~~~~~                         ~~Cuiab6  - ~ t     
K PE~~~   BC   LIV   IA~~~~~~~                             Coopo&:ode ~~~~   BRASILIA~                               /       ~        T     A      T~
[30.OCEAN                                  i';~~~~~~~~                                    *               Rio de IonwroGoinic
C -5,0  I V   A-
(I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P A     F   ~                                                             C.p.Grad                                   aBel
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-e
.0 B C E o A  N                                         A                                                                                     otonl apAd
'N  Prloiewe*    Sate nd Otliort CPotOI
A&Bf~ICA         /                                                              LtE!                                  5i0              SttBan trrt.ybo1o(0e
riO                                               IPWMZTEBSO  1t~~~7 2333 300 407.
S A TiAA3ti    i0*,Th.~~~~~~~~~~~~~.*~~lQo'n
3-                        *i030~~~='s                                                              Ti-~*3*00 30O4f' 



