72c ..LOAN NUMBER 1965 BR
Loan Agreement
(Third Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES URBANOS
Dated                                , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1965 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                I, 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES URBANOS
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
financing the Project described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement
(hereinafter called the Project);
WHEREAS Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called
the Guarantor) has agreed, inter alia, to guarantee the repayment
to the Bank of the Loan to be made by it to the Borrower for
purposes of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a guarantee agreement of
even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "the Borrower's Statutes" means Lei No. 6,261 of
November 14, 1975 and Decreto No. 77,406 of April 12, 1976 of
the Guarantor, as amended from time to time;
(b) "Convenio" means any agreement to be entered into in
accordance with Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement between the


﻿-2-
Borrower, a State and one or more Municipalities with respect to
a Sub-project or any agreement to be entered into by the Borrower
with a state or municipality with respect to the execution of
any portion of Part C (4) of the Project;
(c) "Executing Entities" means the parties to the relevant
Convenio other than the Borrower;
(d) "State" means any state or the Federal District which is
a party to a Convenio;
(e) "Municipality" means any municipality which is a party
to a Convenio;
(f) "Sub-project" means any sub-project included in Part B
of the Project;
(g) "Sub-project component" means a set of works or services
to be carried out under a Sub-project;
(h) "Prior Projects" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank dated
May 22, 1978 for Loan Number 1563 BR (Urban Transport Project) and
the project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement between
the Guarantor and the Bank dated June 2, 1980 for Loan Number 1839
BR (Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre - Project);
(i) "Project Manual" means the Borrower's appraisal and
supervision manual approved by its Board of Directors on Feb-
ruary 24, 1981, as amended from time to time;
(j) "PROPAV Program" means the Borrower's Low-Cost Paving
Program in Low Income Urban Areas;
(k) "PROPAV Manual" means the Borrower's Low-Cost Paving
Manual approved by its Board of Directors on February 24, 1981, as
amended from time to time; and
(1) "Program Category" means program category as such term
is used in the Borrower's Normas Operacionais.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-3-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ninety million dollars ($90,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
pro --ed  of the Loan sbil: be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿-4-
administrative, financial, engineering and urban transport
practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1981
or such later date as may be acceptable to the Bank, carry out
Parts A (1), A (2) and A (3) of the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A
of the Project, the Borrower shall, in accordance with a work
program satisfactory to the Bank, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, imported goods, if
any, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) By December 31, 1981 or such later date
as may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall furnish
the Bank the names of the Municipalities the Borrower proposes
for Part B (9) of the Project, such Municipalities to be
acceptable to the Bank.
(b) By September 30, 1982 or such later date as may be
acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall complete an appraisal
of each Sub-project under Parts B (4) through (9) of the Project
in accordance with the guidelines of the appraisal section of the
Project Manual and furnish to the Bank, for its approval, a report
with respect to each such appraisal demonstrating that each
proposed Sub-project component meets the criteria set out in such
guidelines.
(c) The Borrower shall apply the terms of the appraisal
section of its Project Manual to projects under each Program
Category proposed to it for financing representing not less than:
(i) 45% of the estimated cost of each such Program to be financed
in 1982; (ii) 60% of the estimated cost of each such Program to be


﻿-5-
financed in 1983; and (iii) 70% of the estimated cost of each such
program to be financed in 1984.
Section 3.05. (a) By December 31, 1982 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall enter into
Convenios, whose terms and conditions are satisfactory to the
Bank, with the Executing Entities for the purpose of: (i) making
the proceeds of the Loan available to the Executing Entities in
accordance with terms to be adopted by the Borrower following the
review referred to in Section 3.14 (a) of this Agreement of the
study under Part A (7) (f) of the Project, such terms to be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) determining the rights and
obligations of the Borrower and the Executing Entities in respect
of the carrying out of each of the Sub-projects under Part B of
the Project and Part C (4) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or not
enforce any material provision of the Convenios without the
Bank's concurrence and shall take all steps necessary to ensure
that no such provision is amended, abrogated, waived or not
enforced by any other party thereto without the Bank's concur-
rence.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall make available to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals progress reports containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to ensure the acquisition
as and when needed of all such land and rights in respect of land
as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
performance of its obligations under any Convenio.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under any
Convenio.
Section 3.09. The*Borrower shall apply the terms of the
supervision section of its Project Manual to the Project, the
Prior Projects and other projects in state capitals.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall apply the terms of the
PROPAV Manual to its PROPAV Program, including Part C of the
Project, and shall, during the first quarter of each of the years
1982 through 1984, evaluate its experience in the execution of
such Program during the preceding calendar year and review with
the Bank such evaluation and ensuing proposals, if any, for
amendment of the PROPAV Manual.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.11. Prior to the compltion of the Project, the
Borrower shall not materially amend the Project Manual or the
PROPAV Manual without the concurrence of the Bank.
Section 3.12. By June 30, 1981 or such later date as may
be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall establish and
thereafter put into effect a program, satisfactory to the Bank,
to monitor and evaluate the execution of the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) Prior to the commencement of works with
respect to the first two Sub-project components in each of the
following categories: (i) new road construction; (ii) road
widening; (iii) intersection improvements; (iv) bus lanes; (v) bus
terminals; (vi) bus route paving in poor areas; (vii) traffic
signals; (viii) central business district traffic circulation
plans; and (ix) pedestrian footbridges, under Part B of the
Project, and with respect to such other Sub-project components as
the Bank may indicate when approving the relevant Sub-project,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank detailed engineering plans
and designs satisfactory to the Bank for the works under con-
sideration.
(b) Prior to the commencement of works with respect to the
first component in each of the first three urban areas under Part
C (4) of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bark
detailed engineering plans and designs satisfactory to the Bank
for the works under consideration.
Section 3.14. (a) By December 31, 1982 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall, in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, carry out the
studies under Part A (7) of the Project and forthwith thereafter
review such studies with the Bank.
(b) Not later than six months after completion and, on the
basis of the review referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
with respect to the study under Part A (7) (b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall prepare an appropriate urban transport infrastruc-
ture maintenance policy and take all steps necessary to put into
effect such policy.
(c) Not later than six months after completion and, on the
basis of each review referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
with respect to the studies under Part A (7) of the Project, the
Borrower shall amend the Project Manual and the PROPAV Manual in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, at all times, manage its
affairs and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial and urban transport policies and
practices.
Section 4.02. By May 31 or such later date as may be accept-
able to the Bank in each of the years 1982 through 1985, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank may reasonably request on the Borrower's
activities during the preceding year ending December 31 and shall
discuss such report with the Bank.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. Until completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain a coordinator for the Project whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain a con-
solidated Project account adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the entities responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof, including., without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures under Categories
(2), (3) and (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals have been
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure; and (ii) take all steps necessary to ensure that for
each Sub-project the responsible Executing Entities maintain
Sub-project accounts adequate to demonstrate the use of the
proceeds of the Loan in the execution of each such Sub-project.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and


﻿other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's accred-
ited representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) have the consolidated Project account and the Sub-
project accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of its financial statements and financial
statements with respect to the consolidated Project account and
the Sub-project accounts for such year as so audited, and (ii) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, an opinion by said auditors
as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures have been
used to make payments for goods, civil works and services eligible
for financing under the Loan Agreement; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements with respect to the Project
and the audit thereof as the Bank may from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) inform the Bank of any investment proposed prior to the
Closing Date in the urban transport sector in the Federal District
or any Municipality participating in Part B of the Project in
excess of the equivalent of $3,000,000;
(b) provide the Bank such other information as the Bank may
reasonably request on the probable impact of any such proposed
investment on the relevant Sub-project or any component thereof;
and
(c) allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
any such proposed investment prior to the making of any such
investment.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Borrower's Stat-
utes which will materially and adversely affect the ability of
the Borrower to carry out any of its covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in this Agreement or in any one of the
ConvAnios; or
(b) (i) any party to a Conv6nio relating to a Sub-project
shall have failed to perform any of its covenants,
agreements or obligations thereunder;
(ii) a change shall have been made in the legislation
with respect to any Executing Entity of a Sub-
Project which shall materially and adversely affect
the ability of such Executing Entity to carry out
any of its covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in its Convenio relating to a Sub-
project; or


﻿- 11 -
(iii) a non Sub-project investment shall result or
shall have resulted in an expenditure in the
transport sector in the Federal District or any
Municipality in excess of the equivalent of
$3,000,000, and such investment shall materially
and adversely affect either the carrying out or the
operation of the relevant Sub-project or any
component thereof;
provided, however, that the suspension of the right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account based on any event mentioned in
this paragraph (b) shall be limited to that portion of the Loan
which has been allocated to the Sub-project affected by any such
event.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (b) (i) or (b) (iii)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) (ii) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and


﻿- 12 -
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies, any agency of any such political subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform
all of its obligations in this Agreement contained (including the
obligations thereof relating to the procurement of goods and
civil works for the Project), together with all necessary powers
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly
performed or given and that no other such acts, consents or
approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying out of
the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of its
obligations in this Agreement contained.
Section 7.03. The dat        %Jj31      / , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Se tn 2.04' of the General Conditions.
ARICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresa Brasileira dos
Transportes Urbanos - EBTU
SAN Quadra 03 - Lote "A" 30 Andar
Brasilia, D.F.
CEP 70.040
Brazil
Telex:
611604


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DOS TRANSPORTES URBANOS
y IT            Authorized Representative


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants' services       13,200,000         100%
under Part A and Part
C (3) of the Project
(2) Operating costs of          11,300,000         100%
Sub-project management
units under Part B of
the Project
(3) Civil works and             43,800,000         49%
equipment under Part B
of the Project
(4) Civil works under           21,700,000         49%
Part C (4) of the
Project
TOTAL        90,000,000
2.   The Bank shall disburse for expenditures under Categories (3)
and (4) at the percentage set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above through December 31, 1982, and thereafter at a percentage of
expenditures to result in a disbursement percentage of thirty-two
percent (32%) of all expenditures under each such Category.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 15 -
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures for Part A of the Project until the Bank
has been furnished by the Borrower with: (i) a program, satis-
factory to the Bank, for staff training under Part A (6) of the
Project; and (ii) a work program, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the consultants to be employed pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(c) expenditures for any of Parts B (4) through (9) of the
Project until the Bank has been furnished by the Borrower with an
appraisal report, satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to such
Part;
(d) expenditures for any Sub-project until:
(i) the Bank has been furnished with a duly executed
Convenio, satisfactory to the Bank, for such
Sub-project; and
(ii) it has been certified by the Borrower that such
Convenio has been duly authorized or ratified by
each of the parties thereto and is legally binding
upon each of the parties thereto in accordance with
its terms; and
(e) any expenditure for Part C (4) of the Project until the
Bank has received satisfactory detailed engineering plans and
designs for the first component in each of the first three urban
areas and the Borrower has certified to the satisfaction of the
Bank that the relevant Convenio has been signed.


﻿- 16 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that: (a) the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement; or
(b) any component of Part C (4) of the Project is not consistent
with the terms of the PROPAV Manual; no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality
and efficiency of the Borrower's operations through changes in its
structure, procedures and staff allocation; (b) to improve trans-
port infrastructure in ten urban areas, emphasizing low-cost
public transport investments serving especially the urban poor;
and (c) to pave bus routes in low income areas in medium-sized
cities, state capitals and metropolitan regions.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Institutional Improvements
(1) Carrying out of the Borrower's plan to reorganize its
technical and operations directorates to provide an
organizational structure based on urban transport
programs.
(2) Strengthening of the internal audit and performance
review capability of the Borrower's Planning Advisory
Unit.
(3) Creation of a Program Coordination Unit within the
Borrower to ensure that the programmatic units function
in a coordinated manner, to provide a city or regional
spatial focus in project appraisal, to ensure an
economic allocation of resources among programs and
projects, and to coordinate project supervisicn
activities.
(4) Development and use by the Borrower of improved project
appraisal and supervision systems, together with the
production of: (a) instruments (guidelines, manuals,
etc.) required to support such systems; and (b) manage-
ment systems and tools required for effective control of
such systems.
(5) Review of the Borrower's job descriptions and staff
qualifications, followed by reassignments to achieve
greater compatibility.
(6) Carrying out of the Borrower's program for operational
and technical training.


﻿- 18 -
(7) Carrying out of the Borrower's program of special
studies, including those with respect to the following:
(a) urban transport planning under energy constraints,
with emphasis on modal and fuel substitutability; (b)
design and financing of programs to maintain urban
transport infrastructure; (c) methodologies for calcu-
lating vehicle operating costs in the Brazilian urban
context; (d) bus route planning, regulation, and
control; (e) improvements in bus services through
changes in operating procedures; and (f) the finan-
cial, equity and practical implications, including the
financial impact on the Municipalities, of alternative
methods of on-lending the proceeds of the Borrower's
external loans and budgetary funds to municipalities.
Part B:   Transport Infrastructure and Operational Improvements
This Part consists of ten Sub-projects, one for each of
the following ten urban regions:
(1) Baixada Santista Sub-project;
(2) Distrito Federal Satellite Cities Sub-project;
(3) Sao Luis do MaranhAo Sub-project;
(4) Macei6 Sub-project;
(5) Goiania Sub-project;
(6) Cuiaba Sub-project;
(7) Florian6polis Sub-project;
(8) Natal Sub-project; and
(9) Two Sub-projects to be determined as provided in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
Each Sub-project consists of: (a) establishment and operation
of a management unit in each urban region to manage the Sub-
project for the respective urban region; and (b) various com-
ponents within the following categories:


﻿- 19 -
(i) low-cost improvements to existing urban transport
infrastructure with emphasis on public transport
operations; and
(ii) improvement of planning and operation of urban
transport infrastructure and services at the
local level.
Part C:   Low-cost Paving Program in Low Income Urban Areas
(1) Testing of the PROPAV Manual.
(2) Testing of various paving types and standards.
(3) Evaluation of the test results and appropriate revision
of the Program's procedures.
(4) Paving (of appropriate type and standard) of about
500 kilometers of roads in low income urban areas other
than those included in Part B of the Project.
T          *         *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1984
through   March 15, 1996                   3,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.90%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.85%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                           7.05%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        8.30%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                              9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of competitive
bidding locally advertised.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to the first civil works contract for each
Sub-project under Part B of the Project procured in accordance
with Part A hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of each contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall:
(a) carry out a prior review of bidding documents, bid
evaluations, contract awards, and contracts to ensure compliance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) require the Executing Entities to furnish to it,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery by the
Borrower to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract and such other information as
the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request. The Borrower
shall, on the basis of such information, prepare a semiannual
procurement report for the Bank. The Bank shall, if it Gatermines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and the
respective Executing Entity the reasons for such determination.
C.   Exceptions to Competitive Bidding
1.   With the prior agreement of the Bank, civil works may be
carried out by use of force account.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $10,000 may be procured on the basis of price quotations
from not less than three independent local suppliers or manufac-
turers; provided, however, that the price of the contracts
so procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  -       day of        198L.
FOR SECRETARY


