Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4Aj 3 Z s  - 7-M
Repwt No. 8630-TN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
JULY 13, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distributlon and may be nsed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank suthorizaton.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of June 1990)
Currency Unit                      -                 Tunisian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00                                              TD  0.89
TD  1.00                           -                 US$1.12
FISCALYE
January 1 - December 31
GL4OSARY OF ABBURVIATIONS
SPEC             National Office for ProfessWonal Staff Employment
Bureau national pour l'emploi des cadres
BR!              Regional Employment Offices
Bureaux R6gionaux de l'Emploi
CCAE             Center for Assistance and Advice to Enterprises
Centre de conseil et d'assistance aux entreprises
COVE             General Cmamissariat for Regional Development
Commissariat GAneral au Developpement Regional
DFE              Directorate of in-company training
Direction de la formation n eatreprise
DPS              Directorate of Planning and Statistics
Direction du Plan et de la Statistique
ETY              Employment and Training Fund
Ponds d'insertion et d'adaptatior professionnelle (FlAP)
ETSL             Education and Training Sector Loan
Pret Sectoriel Education/Formation
FONAPA           National Fund for the Handicrafts and Small-Trade Promotion
Fonda National pour Ilartisanat et la promotion des petits metiers
INS              National Institute of Statistics
Institut national de la statistique
MFPE             Ministry of Vocational Training and Employment
Minist6re de la formation professionnelle et de Ilemploi
HOE              Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Scientific Research
Ministere de 16ducation, do Ilenseignement superieur et de la recherche scientifique
OFPE             Office of Vocational Training and Employment
Office de la formation professionnelle et do l'emploi
S1P             Professional Life Insertion Internship
Stage d'insertion a la vie professionnelle
SHAG             Minimum agricultural salary
Salaire minimum agricole
SMIG             Minimum industrial salary
Salaire minimum garanti
TFP              Vocational Training Tax
Taxe a la formation professionnelle
UIPE             Regional Employment Promotion Units
Unites regionales d intervention pour la promotion de l'emploi
URO              Ragional Orientation Units
Unites regionales d'orientation
USAID            United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan Summary                                                     i
I.   EMPLOYMET AND PRODUCTIVITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Employment Trends and Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Government Employment Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Employment and Training Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Major Issues in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Lack of effective labor market intermediation . . . . 5
Effectiveness of Employment Promotion Programs  . . . 7
Training for Employment and Productivity  . . . . .   9
Bank Lending Strategy ......   ...........   .  10
Lending Strategy  ........  ..  ...  ..  .   .  10
Experience with Past Lending  . . . . . . . . . . .  11
II.  THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
Pationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Project Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Employment and Training Fund  . . . . . . . . ... . . . .  13
Definition    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    14
Standard ETF activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Organization  .................                     15
Procedures.  ................                       16
Financial Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Testing ETF Organization and Procedures . . . . . .  17
Institutional Development .......  ..  ..  ..  ..   .  17
Multi-Services Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Orientation and Information . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Labor market monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Management and Evaluation of ETF  . . . . . . . . .  19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Tunisia in March 1990. The mission comprised Mr. Bruno Laporte (Economist,
mission leader), Ms. Manon Muller (Economist), Mr. Christian Dessallien
(Economist, Consultant)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project  Costs   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    20
Summary of Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Basis of Costs estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Customs Duties and Taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Contingencies Allowances  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Foreign Exchange Component  . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Recurrent Costs ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
Project Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  21
Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . .  23
Procurement   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Status of Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Disbursements ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
Special  Account  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    26
Accounts and Audits ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS .  . . . . . . . . . .  28
ANNEXES
1.   Eligible Activities under ETF
2.   ETF's structure, organization and procedures
3.   Basic Data on Employment
4.   Basic Data on Training
5.   List of Sub-projects Tested
6.   OFPE Investment and Recurrent Budgets
SCHEDULES
I.   Institutional Development Schedule
II.  Implementation Schedule
III.  Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursement
CHARTS
I.   Organizational Chart - OFPE
II.  Organization of the ETF



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan Summary
B^orrower:        Republic of Tunisia
Amount:           US$12 million equivalent
Terms:            Seventeen years, including five years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Descritign:       The proposed loan would assist the Government in improving
labor mobility by developing regional-based intermediation
mechanisms for employment and skills training. The proposed
project includes: (i) the creation of an Employment and
Training Fund (ETF) to finance sub-projects facilitating the
placement of unemployed people into existing jobs and improving
worker productivity through in-company training; and (ii) an
institutional development program aiming at strengthening key
services to enterprises (selection, placement and in-company
training), developing information and counselling for job-
seekers, setting up a labor market monitoring system, and
strengthening project management and evaluation.
Bnefits:          The main direct benefit of the proposed project would be to
provide employment and income generation to an estimated 30,000
people over an initial three-year period. At the same time,
it would make a valuable contribution toward meeting critical
semi-skilled manpower shortages which constrain growth in key
economic sectors,  such as manufacturing industries.   The
restructuring of existing employment promotion programs, as
well as the testing of new programs through ETF will result
in more effective resource allocation in an area which claims
an increasing share of the Government resources. The
institutional development component, targeting key employment
and training services, will improve the quality and speed of
the "fit" of job entrants and lower transactional costs. The
indirect and spinoff benefits, in terms of enhancing local area
initiative capacity, spurring micro-enterprise development
and  development  of  private  intermediaries,   could  be
substantial.
Risks:            The major risk lies in the capacity of regional administrations
to   design   sub-projects,   identify   suitable   private
intermediaries and manage ETF operations. However, the first
batch of sub-projects, implemented in the first half of CY90
with USAID financing has demonstrated the capacity of regional
services to plan and implement ETF activities consistent with



. ii -
proposed guidelines and procedures. During appraisal,
particular attention was paid to decentralizing administration
and ensuring that additional resources - both human and
material - be provided to the various implementing units at
the central and regional levels. The other risk relates to
possible organizational changes within MFPE and its specialized
agency, OFPE. This point was raised during negotiations and
the Tunisian delegation provided assurances that project
implementation would not be affected by possible institutional
reorganization.
Estimated Proiect Costs1/
Local Foreign Total
----(US$ million)----
A.    Employment and Training Fund         28.6    3.3      31.9
B.    Institutional Development             0.8    1.8       2.6
Total Baseline Costs             29.4    5.1      34.5
Physical Contingencies         0.0    0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies            0.0    0.2       0.2
Total Project Costs              29.4    5.3      34.7
Financing Plan:
Government                           9.6    0.1        9.7
Enterprises                          7.7    0.8        8.5
IBRD                                 8.5    3.5      12.0
USAID                                 3.6    0.9       4.5
Total                             29.4    5.3      34.7
1/ Includes US$2.2 million in local taxes financed by Government and Enterprises
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                  91         92          93          94
-------------(US$ million)--------------
Annual                      1.2        3.6          5.0        2.2
Cumulative                  1.2        4.8         9.8        12.0
Rate of Return:  Not applicable



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY
1.01        After a decade of strong growth, the Tunisian economy started to
experience difficulties in the early 1980s. Oil production began to decline as
expected and world prices fell, but economic adjustments necessary to cope with
these changes were slow in coming.  By 1985, external financing for Tunisia's
high current account deficit became scarcer, threatening a balance of payments
crisis. After a period of demand restraint, the Government introduced policy
revisions that have broadened into a wide-ranging program of structural
adjustment. The Government's strong commitment to the adjustment program has been
supported by the Bank through five adjustment operations - two Agricultural
Adjustment Loans (ASAL) in FY87 and FY89, the FY88 lndustry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL), the FY89 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and the FY90
Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan (PERL).  While the economic adjustment
process is carried forward, a major concern for the Government is the continuing
high level of unemployment, despite significant decreases in the price of labor
relative to capital in the last five years. The sweeping economic adjustment
process begun in 1986 has sharpened the authorities' longstanding concern about
the unemployment issue. The effects of fiscal austerity and trade and price
reforms on ailing state-supported enterprises imply layoffs of workers in the
short term, pending the desired upsurge in investment and employmenit in more
diffuse,  small-scale  private-sector  businesses  stimulated  by  economic
liberalization.
=mrlovment Trends and Prospects
1.02        High levels of unemployment, currently about 15%, persisted during
the last decade, notwithstanding interventionist economic policies funded by
windfall oil revenues, including massive overstaffing of public enterprises,
public works programs and employment promotion schemes. High natural population
growth, combined with stagnant net emigration, a skewed age pyramid, and rising
female participation, make it very difficult to match labor supply with job
creation and to start reducing the stock of unemployed.
1.03        Between 1975 and 1989, Tunisia's population grew from 5.6 million
to 7.9 million, at an annual rate of 2.5%. During the same period, the labor
force increased at average annual rate of 2.71, from 1.6 million to 2.4 million
(Annex 3, Table 1). This high rate of growth is due to the youthful structure
of the population (42% under 15 years of age in 1975 and 381 in 1989) and to the
increasing entry of women in the labor market (their activity rate grew from 10%
in 1975 to about 20% in 1989). Furthermore, traditional emigration outlets have
dried up. Wh'Ie emigration absorbed up to 7.51 of the labor force in the 1970s,
net emigration was nil in the 1980s, and it is expected that the number of net
returnees will reach 8,000 per year over the period 1989-93. This high rate of



increase in the labor force is expected to continue through the 1990s under the
momentum of past demographic change, and even respectable economic growth rates
in the 4-5% range would hardly begin to reabsorb unemployment unless productivity
stagnated.
1.04        Actual employment has grown from 1.4 million in 1975 to almost
2 million in 1989, at an average annual rate of 2.7%. As shown in Annex 3,
Table 2, employment growth since 1980 has been concentrated in the service sector
(+7.3% per year), consisting of commerce, transport, banking and tourism, in
construction (+5.2%) as well as in manufacturing industries (+3.9%). The main
declining sectors of employment have been agriculture (-1.7% per year) and mining
and  energy  (respectively  -4.1%  and  -2.7%).    In  terms  of  its  sectoral
distribution, 25% of the active labor force is now employed in agriculture, 21%
in manufacturing industries, 12% in construction, 27% in private services and
15% in the civil service.   The most recent trends show that light export
manufacturing industries such as textile, leather and shoes, are growing rapidly.
This seems to indicate that, as a result of the Government's economic
liberalization policy undertaken since 1986, Tunisia has become very attractive
for the relocation of European light manufacturing industries and for sub-
contracting.
1.05        An average of 44,000 jobs have been created each year since 1975,
while new entrants on the job market have averaged 53,000 each year. However,
the rate of job creation has slowed down considerably from 47,000 per year in
the first half of the 1980s to 39,000 per year between 1985 and 1989.
Consequently, the unemployment rate of the labor force aged 18-59 increased only
slightly between 1975 and 1984 (frcm 12.9 to 13.1%), but jumped to 15.3% in 1989.
In 1989, Tunisia had 316,000 unemployed workers between the age 18 and 59 (or
381,000 if the age groups from 15 to 17 and over 60 are included).   The
preliminary results of the recent Household Survey indicate that the overall
unemployment rate for the people 15 years and older stands at over 16% in 1989.
1.06        As shown in Annex 3, Table 3, unemployment affects mostly young
people - 56% of the unemployed are between the age of 15 and 24, most of them
being first-job seekers (60% of the unemployed). The unemployment rate for the
labor force aged 18-24 lies at 30% or twice the national average. Workers with
little or no education are particularly affected by unemployment (26% of the
unemployed were illiterate in 1989 and 47% had only achieved primary schooling).
However, workers with some secondary or even higher education levels are
increasingly affected (20% of the unemployed in 1984, increasing to 30% in 1989).
The length of unemployment has also considerably worsened. While in 1984, 31%
of the unemployed found a position within 6 months, in 1989, two-thirds of the
unemployed had been looking for a job for over one year. The "hard-core" of the
unemployed is therefore, youth, mostly with primary education or less, with no
previous work experience, and who have been looking for a job for more than 12
months.
Government Employment Policies
1.07        The Government is fully aware of the widening gap between supply of
and demand for jobs. Its concerted attack on unemployment has four major prongs:
(i) promoting economic growth; (ii) moderating population growth; (iii) adapting



the profile of the labor force to the needs of the economy; and (iv) removing
labor market rigidities.
1.08        The macroeconomic framework is sound, growth-oriented, and much less
biased against labor-intensive investments than in the early 80s. The main
emphasis of the structural reform program is on measures promoting efficiency
and growth by removing obstacles to a more efficient resource allocation
(realignment of prices, including tariffs, tax reform, reduction of regulatory
constraints, stimulation of competition). Real wage increases have been kept well
below productivity since 1984, and the relative costs of capital and labor have
shifted in the latter's favor, notably through significant increases in real
interest rates. Non-wage labor costs, notably employer social security
contributions, have also been reduced. In 1989, taxes paid by employers for low-
cost housing (FOPROLOS) and for vocational training (TFP), were reduced. The
options for further reducing social security charges are being investigated with
Bank assistance.'
1.09        The Government continues to emphasize poRulation Rolicies as an
essential aspect of its strategy. An active family planning strategy undertaken
with Bank and USAID support since the 60s contributed to a decline in birth rates
of 27% between 1965 and 1985. Nortality also declined by 45%, so population
continues to grow at 2.51 a year. While demographic inertia and commendable
reductions in mortality are keeping the net growth rate relatively high in the
short term, cumulative fertility reductions linked to rising contraceptive
prevalence and higher age at marriage are at work, steadily reducing the "teen
bulge" of the labor force and its overall rate of increase. Nevertheless, the
16-19 age group will not even start to decline in absolute numbers until towards
the end of the next decade.
1.10        The education and pre-eM1lo_ent training environment is being
changed rapidly, notably through the introduction of 9-year universal basic
education and g 9ater involvement of employers in training, supported by the
FY89 Education and Training Sector Loan. The relatively poor performance of the
education and training system (only 1 in 3 children go beyond grade 6, 1 in 5
8o beyond grade 9, and 1 in 20 progress to higher education) translates into
higher numbers of unemployed youth. At the same time, intense world market
competition and rapid technological change require a labor force with much bigher
levels of mastery of math, science and language skills than is presently the
case. While an improved pool of pre-employment skills does not directly create
jobs, it helps attract foreign investment and improves the flexibility of the
labor force and the range of individual career opportunities to match changing
demand conditions.
1.11        The labor market regulatory framework is gradually being revised to
improve labor mobility and employers' hiring response to market opportunities.
The starting poirt is a dirigiste system enshrined in a labor code, a patchwork
of implementing rules and practices, and a tradition of government intervention
in all aspects of hiring, firing and wage and benefit determination. However,
,1/    As part of the FY88 Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan, the
Bank financed a Social Security Stuiy which is being executed by IL.0



- 4 -
a number of apparently inflexible features built into the regulatory framework
are substantially weakened through tolerant or lax administrative and/or
ineffectual sanctions machinery.   Significant remaining drawbacks  include
seniority-based pay scales, ambiguities in standards of performance-related
benefits, limited fixed-term employment formulas, quasi veto powers of local
admiristrations on intended layoffs and punitive labor tribunal awards against
employers who challenge them, and minimum wages working against absorption of
unemployed youth. A number of potential disadvantages have long been recognized
and alleviated by adding compensating layers of "incentive" programs, such as
wage subsidy and tax rebate schemes for employers in desirable areas or sectors
hiring various categories of youth labor, effectively relaxing the minimum wage
constraint (paras. 1.24. through 1.28).   The Government is introducing new
measures raising the minimum company size to which various regulations involving
mandatory employee participation apply. Efforts are also being made by the
administration to inform employers and clarify the legislation in particular with
regard to firing and fixed term employment. Further progress on labor market
deregulation can only be achieved slowly and through negotiationE between labor
unions and employers' federations.
EmmlogMent and Training Services
1.12        The main responsibility for providing employment and training
services in Tunisia rests with the newly created Ministry of Vocational Training
and Labor (MFPE)'. The Office of Vocational Training and Employment (OFPE) is the
operational arm of MFPE and is managed under its supervisory authority.  Broadly
speaking, the main functions of OPPE are: training; labor exchange and placement;
orientation of youth and adults; labor market information; and assistance to
enterprises. The organizational structure of OFPE both at the central and
regional levels is depicted in Chart I.
1.13        With regard to training, OFPE directly operates a network of 71
training centers. In 1989, it provided formal training for about 6,500 trainees
and continuing vocational training for about 3,000 people. In the same year,
17,000 out of an estimated 68,000 apprentices in the country were rev .;tered with
OFPE, but 2,000 were actually following courses in OFPE's training centers. OFPE
is financed through transfers from the General Budget. At the same time, a
payroll tax (TFP), equal to 2X of the wage bill of companies (11 for
manufacturing industries) is collected by the Treasury. MFPE is responsible for
coordinating all vocational training activities in Tunisia. Technical ministries
and public enterprises run training programs to meet the needs of their
respective sectors and some 8,600 trainees were enrolled there in 1989. Finally,
a private vocational training sector operates with a capacity of about 20,000
training places, mainly for office/clerical skills.
1.14        The labor exchange/placement function is performed by OFPE through
its decentralized network, namely 33 regional employment offices (BRE) which in
turn control some 100 local offices. These offices have a mandate to register
unemployed people and provide them with some information on training and
1/     The Ministry of Vocational Training and Employment (MFPE) was
created by Decree #90-875 dated June 5, 1990.



- 5 -
employment possibilities. They play a modest role in terms of placement which
seems to be limited to seasonal and semi-skilled workers. In 1938, the number
of registrations and re-registrations of unemployed people reached 237,000 and
the number of placements only 57,000. The labor exchange function for university
graduates/professional staff is handled separately by the National Office for
Professional Staff Employment (BNEC) created in 1987. The statistics show that,
in 1988, BNEC registered 1,960 people and placed 700.
1.15        Info-mation/orientation of youth and adults is provided through 23
regional orientation units (URO), most of which share facilities with BREs.
Their role is confined to providing information/counseling to young people trying
to get access to vocational training programs. In some instances, they have
participated in selection operations for vocational training centers.
1.16        The role of OFPE in terms of labor market monitoring is limited to
the production of statistics on registration and placement activities in its
BRes.   It is also to provide assistance to planning authorities and to the
National Statistics Office (INS), which are ultimately responsible for
maintaining labor market statistics. OFPE is in the process of developing an
information system on youth insertion into the labor market which will be based
on employer surveys and tracer studies.
1.17        OFPE also provides assistance to entergrises in the areas of in-
company training and selection of personnel. With regard to in-company training,
OFPE's role has been to approve training plans for companies claiming a rebate
on the vocational training tax.  It has also been to train human resources
managers and instructors, as well as to provide direct assistance to enterprises
for analyzing human resources problems, designing training plans and, in some
cases, delivering training. The Center for Assistance and Advice to Enterprises
(CCAE, a unit of OFPE) provides services to companies, on a fee paying basis,
in the area of staff selection. Some 50 companies received assistance in 1988.
Nalor Issues in the Sector
Lack of effective labor market intermediation.
1.18        The functioning of the labor market has been hampered by the lack
of effective intermediation. The state labor market organization, OFPE, which
might be expected to aid labor market flexibility through services to employers
and job-seekers, has been mainly concerned, in the past, with registration and
control which contributes to excessive regulatory rigidity. Private placement
services are forbidden by law and employers are required to seek OPE's approval
for all vacancies. There is a need to improve the quality and expand the range
of services provided by OFPE while, at the same time, encouraging the development
of private labor market intermediaries.
1.19        OFPE's nationwide network of job placement and counseling services
has not been able to provide adequate occupational and educational information
for orientation of youth and adults. Very little information is available to
students in the education system about career opportunities and pre-requisites
in terms of training and experience. Information available to unemployed people
regarding job opportunities, employment promotion programs, and training programs



- 6 -
is very fragmented. This lack of information is one of the most serious problems
affecting the flexibility of labor market operations.
1.20        With regard to labor exchange/placement services, OFPE's role is
limited to a fraction of the market, mainly seasonal and semi-skilled labor.
The BREs have not been in a position to offer adequate services to job-seekers
beyond the delivery of an identification card. Their resources, both human and
material, remain limited. They hive not developed a pro-active strategy and
their performance in terms of job referrals, counseling and testing and
assistance to geographic mobility, remain limited.
1.21        Enterprises perceive OFPE's role as mainly that of a welfare agency
for the unskilled unemployed. OFPE's assistance to enterprises in the field of
human resources development remains limited. Selection services for enterprises
based on modern occupational assessment programs and work sampling techniques
are not widely available. In general, enterprises do not rely on the BREs to
recruit qualified  ntipower. Moreover, the legal obligation of companies to inform
OFPE before they advertise a job offer in the press, has caused unnecessary
delays in recruitment.   Under the proposed project, the two week standstill
period available to BREs to identify a suitable candidate before a company
advertises would be  reduced to  two days.    Complete  elimination of  the
requirement, which OFPE favors, would require major legislative changes and
disproportionate efforts at the political level for an equivalent result. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed these arrangements (para. 5.02).
1.22        OFPE's management is aware of the organization's shortcomings and
since its 1988 reorganization, a number of remedial steps have been taken. The
most significant measure consisted in the integration of employment and training
services, previouLsly under separate Government entities.   The second step
consisted in decentralizing and strengthening internal key functions, such as
information/orientation  (URO) and employment promotion (URIPE).   The OFPE
regional delegations are now in a position to provide a full range of services
to job-seekers and employers. The third step would be the restructuring of three
existing OFPE entities dealing with in-company training (DFE), selection (CCAE)
and high level staff placement (BNEC) which will be grouped at the national level
to provide comprehensive services to enterprises (para. 2.20).
1.23        Beyond the institutional arrangements, the most important measure
needed is to provide suitable funding mechanisms to allow OFPE's regional offices
to perform their core role of labor market intermediation either directly or by
sub-contracting to private entities. This would provide a real incentive to the
regional structures to take initiatives.   At the same time,  the funding
mechanisms would introduce an element of competition among the various
governorates, as well as, among various structures within a governorate. The
creation of the proposed Employment and Training Fund would promote the
development of pro-active labor market intermediation strategies aimed at
improving labor market insertion opportunities and consolidating human capital
in existing enterprises. In addition the institutional development component
would assist OFPE with ongoing restructuring and strengthening of key services
(para. 2.04).



- 7 -
Effectiveness of EmDlovment Promotion Programs
1.24        Faced with a growing unemployment problem, the Government has over
the years put in place a very sophisticated and relatively costly employment
promotion framework. The majority of these programs which result in lowering
effective wages paid by employers through state subsidies, have very high
administrative costs and may merely be subsidizing normal employment plans
without adding to total recruitment. In addition, there is no obligation for
employers to recruit trainees at the end of the program. Small employers also
tend to be wary of these programs because they expose them to social security
and other regulatory encumbrance they might otherwise avoid. While it is not
always possible to evaluate the impact of some of these programs, especially
the most recent ones, it is clear that their effectiveness could be greatly
improved. Broadly speaking, there are three types of employment promotion
programs:
(i) Public works programs.
1.25        These employment promotion programs introduced for the first time
in the 60s, target unemployed people with little or no skills in under-
privileged regions. Typically, these people are employed at less than the minimum
agricultural salary 'SMAG), in various labor intensive priority public works such
as: desertification, reforestation, soil and water conservation, maintenance of
public infrastructures, construction of schools and low cost housing. Several
programs exist in this category, financed by the Government and external donors,
such as USAID, the Kuwait Development Fund and the African Development Bank.
Altogether, an estimated TD 62 million (US$69 million) were spent on these
programs in 1989, which financed 25 million paid working days or the equivalent
of about 100,000 full time jobs, about 5X of the labor force.
1.26        A recent evaluation completed by USAID' shows mixed results. To the
extent that the main objective of the program is to provide a temporary safety
net for the large numbers of unemployed and not to obtain the highest return per
dinar invested, the program is effective. However, the program has not been
successful in terms of creating opportunities for long-term non-subsidized
employment,  which  is  an  implicit  objective.    Both  the  Government  and
international donors are looking into ways and means of improving the
effectiveness of these programs and of channelling funding into the generation
of sustainable employment openings, ultimately the only way to dampen the
severity of unemployment.
(ii) Assistance to micro enterprise development.
1.27        The National Fund for Handicrafts and Small-Trade Promotion (FONAPAM)
was created in 1981 to provide technical assistance and financial support to
people interested in becoming small entrepreneurs. The role of FONAPAM, for which
applications are canvassed and loans supervised by OFPE through its regional
offices, is to provide technical assistance to help individuals identify projects
1/     Evaluation du Programme des Chantiers Regionaux de Developpement,
Soci4t6 SIGMA One, Novembre 1989.



and assess their commercial and financial viability. The funds are administered
by several private banks which provide up to TD 25,000 per borrower under
different, but generally well below financial market conditions. Various tax
deductions are also granted to these small entrepreneurs during the first five
years of their commercial activities.
1.28        The amounts allocated by the Government to FONAPAM increased from
TD 25 million over the VIth 2lan to TD 46 million during the VIIth Plan. Between
1982 and 1987, 7,600 projects were financed under this scheme creating
approximately 21,000 jobs. In 1988, the average investment per job was TD 3,700
of which FONAPAM contributed about 70%. It is estimated that only 25 to 30% will
be actually reimbursed, resulting in a cost per job created of roughly TD 2,000.
This number would in fact be much higher if one were to take into account the
very low survival rate of enterprises created and the administrative costs of
processing the loans. OFPE, acting as the last resort manager for this program
which it was not designed to handle, is trying to improve the effectiveness of
this program by improving the quality of technical assistance provided to
entrepreneurs and by developing new and improved ways to train promoters.
(iii) Placement of graduates.
1.29        The Government designed several programs to overcome the difficulties
faced by first-time job-seekers resulting from their lack of work experience.
In 1981, the Government introduced the system of employment/training contracts
to promote the hiring of young graduates from secondary technical schools or
vocational training centers. This program provides a subsidy of TD 300 and
exemption of social charges for a graduate recruited for an initial probation
year, and TD 200 plus exemption for another 3 years upon confirmation. The
results of this program are somewhat disappointing (1,400 contracts in 1987 as
compared to 12,000 planned at the onset of the program). More recently, new
measures were introduced to improve this program and the number of contracts
signed increased to 3,000 in 1989.   In 1987, it introduced the Recruitment
Contract (Contrat d'Embauche) which targeted higher education graduates. An
enterprise can get up to TD 2,000 tax rebate on the TFP, if it agrees to recruit
a graduate after a one year period of on-the-job training. The results are
limited - 237 contracts signed and 53 recruitments, not necessarily incremental,
over 3 years.
1.30        The Government has also introduced a new type of programs called
the Professional Life Insertion Internships (SIVP). The first one, SIVP1,
initiated in 1987, subsidizes the salary (approximately TD 1,560 per participant
per year) of a higher education graduate who is taken by an enterprise for one
year. Some 1,900 contracts were signed over 1987-88 for a total budget of TD 3
million. Out of the first 1,000 graduates, approximately one third were recruited
before the end of the program, one third at the end and the rest were seeking
employment. Even if the placement rate is now decreasing, this program seems to
be successful both in terms of providing jobs and professional experience to
graduates and in terms of giving an opportunity to enterprises to evaluate
certain profiles. The second one, SIVP2, introduced in 1988, targets young people
coming out of secondary education - a salary subsidy of approximately TD 900 per
participant is provided. With only 600 contracts signed in 1988 and 10 confirmed
placements, this program appears to be much less successful.



- 9 -
1.31        The Government is determined to improve its employment promotion
framework by restructuring existing programs and testing new ones. The first
step would be the phasing out, by December 31, 1990, of the recruitment contracts
which have not met their objectives. The second step would be to complete, at
the latest by December 31, 1991, the study of existing employment promotion
programs, which is underway with USAID assistance. The results of these studies
will be sent to the Bank for review and comment. Based on such review, all
necessary measures to finalize such recommendations would be taken. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed these arrangements (para. 5.02). Finally
the proposed project provides an opportunity to test and evalurte new programs
aimed at improving labor market insertion op,ortunities for long-term unemployed
people (para. 2.02). The emphasis of these new programs is on low unit costs,
cost saaaring between the State and enterprises and commitment to recruit at the
end of the program.
Training for Emplovment and Productivity
1.32        The serious unemployment problem which pre-vails today calls for a
rapid adaptation of the Profile of the labor force to the requirements of a fast
developing economy. However, the existing vocational training system which
emphasizes formal institution-based training for young school leavers, is
unwieldy and not well equipped to face these new challenges. Its performance in
terms of pre-employment and in-company training has been inadequate and the
system is characterized by relatively weak linkages with industry. Since 1988,
OFPE has embarked upon a far reaching reform of its vocational training system
supported by the Bank FY89 Education and Training Sector Loan. The reform program
focuses largely on the development of training agreements with industry
associations to develop sector specific vocational training centers at the
skilled and technician level.   So far, three industry-specific centers for
construction, food processing, and leather, have been launched in collaboration
between OFPE and the respective domestic and foreign trade associations.
1.33        With the recent merging of its employment and training service, OFPE
has been called upon to play a greater role in training the unemployed. However,
low capacity and inevitable low density and administrative and financial
rigidities make it very difficult for the existing network of training centers
to design and deliver customized training to improve the placement of unemployed
people either through the acquisition of new skills or the upgrading of existing
skills. This type of intervention requires a different type of labor market
intermediation, as well as the mobilization of various other training operators
in the public and private sector and above all an adequate relationship with
potential employees. On the other hand, enterprises have traditionally been
reluctant to provide pre-employment training, even when the difficulty of
screening  semi-skilled  manpower  affects  investment  decisions.    This  is
particularly true for fast developing manufacturing industries (textile, garment,
leather, shoes) where the most immediate need for semi-skilled machine operators
remains largely unmet in several fast growing centers.
1.34        Skill development for staff already working in enterprises has
largely been neglected in Tunisia, The reluctance of employers to get involved
in training threatens the country's economic development at a time when intense



- 10 -
world market competition and rapid technological change require the best possible
use of human potential. Employers need to invest in training either directly by
developing in-house training or indirectly by sub-contracting to public or
private training organizations. A recently completed study of in-company
training' attributes the poor record of Tunisian companies in this area to the
lack of appropriate incentives, as well as to the lack of appropriate services
offered to companies to plan and organize training activities.
1.35        As part of a general reform of the financing of vocational training,
the Government has decided to gradually improve the incentive framework for
companies to invest in human capital development. As part of the Education and
Training Sector Loan, the Government agreed, in 1989, to reduce the vocational
training tax (TFP) applied to manufacturing industries from 2 to 1% of total wage
bill and to use some of the tax proceeds to promote the development of
apprenticeship training, dual training and in-company training. The Government
is now going one step further and will introduce new regulations concerning TFP.
All companies will be required to pay a 1% tax (0.5% for manufacturing
industries) which will be earmarked to a special fund to finance the initial
training of youth in enterprises. In addition, all companies which do not invest
the equivalent of 1% of total payroll (0.5% for manufacturing industries) for
training their personnel will have to pay an additional 1% tax (0.5% for
manufacturing). This means that the cumbersome existing system of tax rebate,
based on pre-approved training plans, will be abolished.
1.36        With regard to services provided to companies to assist them in the
planning and delivery of in-company training activities, the strategy needs to
be modified. So far, OFPE itself has not been in a position to provide either
the range or the quality of services enterprises may expect. At the same time,
the contribution of the private sector in this area has not been fully
demonstrated. Among the private training companies involved, only a very limited
number of well-established companies have reportedly provided good quality
services. The system of tax rebate seems to have promoted the development of a
number of very small companies which have a captive market with certain
enterprises. The priority for OFPE is to improve its own services to enterprises
while, at the same time, promoting the development of private intermediaries.
The proposed project would provide technical assistance to strengthen OFPE's in-
company training activities which will be developed in the context of the Multi-
service Center (para. 2.20).
Bank Lending Strategy
Lending Strategy
1.37        The Bank in general supports the Government's employment strategy,
described in para. 1.07 through 1.11, and its efforts to pursue the dialogue
with both employers and workers' unions with a view to improving the labor market
regulatory framework. In complement to these efforts, the Bank's strategy is
to assist the Government in its efforts to restructure existing employment
1/    La Formation en Entreprise - Projet TUN/88/010, Gilles Hauser -
Mai 1989



- 11 -
promotion programs. The proposed pilot project would assist the Government in
introducing and testing new activities that appear to be much more cost-
effective and are targeted squarely at the hard core youth unemployment problem,
while an evaluation of ongoing programs is being conducted. At the end of a
three-year period, both the Government and international donors will be in a
position to target their efforts in the area of employment promotion and re-
allocate expenditures accordingly. The development of effective labor market
intermediation mechanisms that the proposed project supports will improve labor
mobility, as well as employers' hiring response to market opportunities.
1.38        The Bank strategy calls also for an increase in the efficiency of
investments in human resources through major structural changes in the
Government's policy framework and significant improvement in the management of
educational resources. It also calls for the business community and individuals
to play a greater role in shaping the education and training system to their
needs. The Bank is currently supporting the first phase of an education and
training reform through its FY89 Education and Training Sector Loan. It will also
assist the second phase of the reform which will deal with higher education
access and financing issues (upcoming Higher Education Restructuring Project).
Exnerience with Past Lending
1.39        Since 1962, IDA has committed 10 credits to Tunisia amounting to
US$75.2 million and the Bank has committed 84 loans amounting to
US$2,305 million, both net of cancellations. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory and important policy changes and institutional improvements have
been achieved. Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments
in infrastructure, social development and, more recently agriculture and
industry. As of March 31, 1990, the sector share of the Bank Group commitments
was as follows: agriculture - 14.5%; industry - 11.4%; transport - 11.3%; urban
infrastructure - 20.2%; energy and education - 6.5% each; health 0.4%, and non-
sector and technical assistance - 29.2%.
1.40        Adjustment lending to Tunisia started in FY87. A first Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL, Loan 2754-TUN), approved by the Board in September
1986, supported the Government's sector reform program and focussed on prices,
public investment, and support services. An Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL, Loan 2781-TUN), approved by the Board in January 1987,
focused mainly on import tariffs and price control. A Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL, Loan 2962-TUN), approved in June 1988, supports the Government's medium-
term macroeconomic program and its measures to liberalize trade, decontrol
prices, increase the efficiency of financial intermediation, and reform taxation.
1.41        A  Second  Agricultural  Sector  Adjustment  Loan  (ASAL-II,  Loan
3078-TUN), approved in June 1989, follows up on the measures undertaken through
ASAL-I and focusses primarily on further liberalizing the agriculture sector and
strengthening essential support services. Finally, a Public Enterprise Reform
Loan (PERL, Loan 3109-TUN), approved in July 1989, supports efforts to institute
reforms in public enterprise management, to restructure some major loss-making
enterprises, and to divest assets which can be transferred to the private sector.



* 12 -
1.42        With regard to human resources development, Bank lending to Tunisia
(two IDA credits and four IBRD loans) has supported the Government's programs
to improve primary and secondary schooling, teacher training, and formal and non-
formal trade training for skilled workers. Whereas the first projects focussed
on specific sections of the education and training sector, the latest project -
Education and Training Sector Loan (ETSL, Loan 3054-TUN) approved in June 1989 -
supports far reaching systemic reforms. The reform program entails the
restructuring of the education and training system so that a much larger number
of children would benefit from sound basic education (grades 1 through 9) helping
them prepare for active careers in a fast-changing economy. It also includes the
development of pre-service and in-service training in collaboration with
companies in the productive sectors and mobilization of additional resources for
training. Further operations aimed at the restructuring of higher education
system and rationalizing of health and family planning services are under
preparation.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.01        The continuation of economic liberalization and implementation of
an outward-oriented development strategy requires much greater attention to
issues of employment and productivity. By focussing on the structure of labor
market  intermediation,   the  proposed  operation  complements  past  Bank
interventions in the areas of macro-economic policies, population, education
and training. The proposed project would assist the Government in its efforts
to improve labor market operations by testing regional-based mechanisms aimed
at improving labor market insertion opportunities and consolidating human capital
in existing enterprises. The shift of responsibilities toward local governments
to identify employment opportunities and the move toward private labor market
intermediation are promising new directions for reorganizing the Government's
as well as international donors' employment promotion efforts in the future. The
Bank's presence in this critical set of institutional changes is therefore
instrumental to the successful continuation of economic adjustment.
Prosect Objectives and Scope
2.02        The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)   to accelerate the adaptation of the labor force to existing jobs through
more effective training and labor market intermediation; and
(b)   to consolidate existing human capital by developing in-company training
activities.
2.03        To achieve these objectives the proposed project would include the
following components, to be implemented by the Ministry of Vocational Training
and Employment (MFPE) through the intermediary of its Office of Vocational
Training and Employment (OFPE):
(a)   the creation of a regionally based Employment and Training Fund (ETF) to
finance sub-projects aimed at facilitating the placement of the unemployed
into existing jobs, as well as improving productivity of existing workers
through systematic in-company training efforts; and
(b)   an institutional development program aimed at strengthening key services
to enterprises (selection, placement and in-company training), developing
information and orientation of young people and adults, setting up a labor
market insertion monitoring system and strengthening project management.
Emlogment and Traini   Fund (USS31.9 million)
2.04        To enable regional administrations to respond rapidly and flexibly
to changing labor market demands, the proposed project would finance, on a pilot
basis, new and improved labor market intermediation mechanisms through the
creation of an Employment and Training Fund (ETF).



- 14 -
2.05        The Bank has been discussing the proposed ETF with Government
officials since March 1989. During the first phase, the concept of ETF was
presented jointly by OFPE and the Bank, in two pilot governorates: Monastir and
Ben-Arous. During the second phase, OFPE regional representatives conducted
surveys in order to identify the type of activities which might be eligible for
financing under ETF. During the third phase, the proposals emanating from the
two governorates were carefully reviewed in order to identify standard ETF
activities and procedures. The last phase, initiated in January 1990, consisted
of the actual testing of sub-projects prepared in five different governorates.
Definition
2.06        The ETF is designed to finance, at the governorate level, a number
of sub-projects aimed at facilitating the placement of unemployed people into
productive employment or at consolidating existing human capital. Typically a
sub-project consists of one standard activity eligible for financing under ETF.
The Fund is created for an initial period of three years. It is anticipated that
the number of participating governorates would increase from the current base
of five (during test phase) to about 10 during the last year of the project.
This expansion would allow a progressive transfer of methodology and experience,
as well as adequate time for preparation of sub-projects. Tlle introduction of
a new governorat. will require prior Bank approval (para 2.13).  Beyond the
three-year pilot period and subject to satisfactory evaluation (para 2.25), the
experience could be extended both in terms of geographical coverage and in terms
of eligible activities.
Standard ETF activities
2.07        Standard activities eligible for financing under ETF, detailed in
Annex 1, include : (i) training for placement in an enterprise; (ii) training
for installation in self-employment; (iii) in-company training/extension
services; (iv) sub-contracting to private training/placement companies;
(v) allowances for interview/relocation closer to job sites. Each eligible ETF
activity is defined in terms of its objective, beneficiaries, content,
implementing institution, financing arrangements, and expected results.
Eligibility criteria have been designed to allow participating Governorates to
identify and select sub-projects within reasonable discretionary limits. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the standard activities
and eligibility criteria, set out in Annex 1, would be used in selecting sub-
projects (para. 5.02).
2.08        The main criteria emphasize: (i) evidence of long-term unemployment
for the participants selected (on the basis of registration in the local
employment office); (ii) commitment by enterprises to recruit participants upon
satisfactory completion of training requirements (on the basis of contracts with
OFPE); (iii) provision of intermediation services by private entities such as
the enterprises themselves, private training/placement companies, and independent
trainers recruited on a contractual basis.   In the case where training is
provided by a combination of public and private sources, ETF would cover only
private intermediation costs. The list of eligible activities is not exhaustive
and it is expected that, during project implementation, new activities would be



- 15 -
introduced to reflect the changing nature of labor market needs, as well as to
take into account implementation experience. The introduction of new eligible
activities would require prior Bank approval (para. 2.13).
Organization
2.09        The organization and management structure of ETF are described in
Annex 2 and depicted in Chart II. At the national level, the operations of ETF
would be controlled by the National Management Committee. This Committee would
be chaired by the Minister of Employment and Vocational Training and OFPE would
act as its Executive Secretary. The National Committee would include
representatives from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, the Ministry of Planning, and the General Commissariat for Regional
Development (CGDR), as well as employers' and workers' representatives. The
Committee would provide guidelines with regard to the Fund's activities, approve
sub-projects whose amount exceeds a pre-determined ceiling, approve the
participation of a new governorate and the introduction of new types of
activities, as well as monitor and evaluate the implementation of ETF activities.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the National
Management Committee would be created before loan effectiveness with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.02).
2.10        In each participating governorate, a Regional Coordination Committee
would supervise ETF activities. This Committee would be chaired by the Governor
and the regional OFPE representative would act as its Executive Secretary. It
would consist of local CGDR representatives, the local heads of technical
departments involved, and representatives from the main economic sectors, as
appropriate. This Committee would have mainly a consultative function. It would
advise on broad orientations of ETF activities in the Governorate, assist in
identification   of  sub-projects,   ensure   coordination  between  various
administrative services involved, and monitor implementation of ETF activities.
2.11        A program coordinator, who has already been appointed, would manage
ETF's day-to-day activities at the national level.  His role is to provide
assistance to participating Governorates and liaise with the Bank as necessary.
At the Governorate level, the OFPE regional representative would have primary
responsibility for managing ETF sub-projects.  He would be assiLsteu by a full
time ETF manager. Additional resources would be available through the Fund to
appoint, on a contractual basis, supervisors who would closely follow up sub-
project execution and participants (paras. 2.25 IV).
2.12        Private  enterprises would directly participate  in sub-project
preparation, financing and implementation.   Sub-projects would be based on
enterprises' commitment to recruit trainees subject to successful completion of
training. Enterprises would agree with regional OFPE representatives on the
content and duration of training programs and select trainees in agreement with
OFPE. They would also finance part of the training costs by providing space,
equipment and materials/consumables, as well as trainers and supervisors. The
payment of additional productivity bonuses to trainees would be at the discretion
of employers. The distribution of tasks and financing would be embodied in the
contracts negotiated between OFPE and recipient enterprises.



- 16 -
Procedures
2.13        The procedures for the operations of ETF are presented in Annex 2.
In order to promote maximum efficiency in the utilization of funds, emphasis
would be placed on streamlined procedures and accountability at the local level.
Before project effectiveness, a manual of procedures setting terms and conditions
for the processing, monitoring and financing of employment and trair,ing
activities under ETF, as detailed in Annex 2, would be finalized.   During
negotiations, the Government confirmed these arrangements (para. 5.01).
Identification: Sub-projects would be identified and appraised by the OFPE
regional representatives, in accordance with the criteria set forth for each
standard activity (para. 2.07).
Approval: Sub-project proposals in participating Governorates, which meet the
agreed criteria for any standard activity and fall under a ceiling of TD 100,000,
would be approved by the OFPE regional representatives. In those cases where the
amount of a sub-project is beyond the agreed ceiling or a new type of instrument
is introduced or a new Governorate is proposed, approval from the National
Management Committee and the Bank would be required.
Imklementation: Implementation of sub-projects would rest with employment/
training intermediaries contracted out by OFPE regional representatives. The
latter would supervise on-going activities, manage the funds and produce monthly
statistical reports made available to the Regional Coordination Committee and
the National Management Committee (para. 3.11).
Financial Management
2.14        OFPE would be in charge of ETF's financial management. Before project
effectiveness, the Fund would be established through a specially earmarked
budgetary allocation to OFPE. An allocation, corresponding to the Government's
annual expected ETF disbursements, would be included in the budget every year
for the duration of the project. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
these arrangements (para. 5.01).
2.15         ETF's financial organization is also depicted in Chart II.  To
facilitate timely implementation of sub-projects, regional OFPE representatives
would disburse funds out of their regular imprest account and then turn to OFPE's
financial directorate to obtain reimbursement. In most cases, OFPE would grant
budgetary advances to its regional delegations to cover about one month of ETF
expenditures. Each request would specify the sub-project and the category of
expenditures involved (allowances, service contracts, or materials/consumables).
Stipends would be initially set at half the minimum wage, subject to further
review bv the Government and the Bank, on the clear understanding that employers
are expected to augment this with additional discretionary payments. OFPE would
then obtain reimbursement, on the basis of 50% of all ETF expenditures from a
Special Account in US dollars at the Central Bank, that would be established to
receive the proceeds from the Bank loan (para. 3.18).



- 17 -
Testing ETF Organization and Procedures
2.16        Since  January  1990,  the  Government  has  already  tested  ETF
organization and procedures with USAID financing. Altogether 13 sub-projects
representing about US$500,000 have been identified and implemented in five
different Governorates. The list and description of these sub-projects is
provided in Annex 3.
2.17        A total of about 1,000 unemployed people are being prepared, through
a period of 3 to 12 months of on the job/of the job training, for semi-skilled
jobs in industry and services. Typically these people represent the core of
unemployment in Tunisia - they are young (between the age of 18 and 25) and have
limited education (between five and nine years of education). In all cases,
employers are committed to recruiting the trainees and contracts have been signed
between the administration and enterprises in the private sector. OFPE acts as
a broker and training is provided through a combination of public institutions
and private intermediaries such as the enterprises themselves, independent
trainers on a contractual basis or private training institutions.   Inter-
mediation costs are covered by the enterprises, the CoNrernment and the ETF.
2.18        Given their sound performance in preparing and implementing sub-
projects during the test phase, OFPE national and regional authorities have
demonstrated their capacity to prepare further sub-projects during the life of
the project. It is anticipated that the proposed project would include
approximately  600  sub-projects  (20  sub-projects  per  year,  for  about  10
participating Governorates). This would allow an assistance of about 30,000
people over a three-year period.
Institutional Developyment (USS2.6 million)
2.19        The operation of ETF requires the emergence of new labor market
intermediaries. While OFPE needs to improve the quality of its services in this
area, its main responsibility is also to promote the development of private
intermediaries (para. 1.18). The existence of these new partners will have a
multiplier effect on the Government's efforts to address the unemployment
problem.
2.20        In order to strengthen key OFPE employment/training services, the
proposed loan would finance an integrated institutional development program
comprised of expert services, fellowships and equipment. This program would
cover the areas described below (see also Schedule I):
(i) Development of a Multi-Service Center (MSC). Based in the Tunis area, MSC
would provide human resources development services to enterprises. These include
mainly training needs assessment and organization of in-company training,
selection of personnel and placement of high-level staff. The center would
regroup three existing OFPE structures, namely the Direction of In-Company
Training (DFE), the Center for Assistance to Enterprises (CCAE) and the National
Bureau for Placement of High Level Staff (BNEC). This component does not entail
the creation of new administrative bodies or the financing of a new building.



- 18 -
2.21        With regard to in-company training, the MSC would assist companies
in performing training needs assessment, designing appropriate training plans
and programs, defining methods, resources and budgets for implementing training
plans and evaluating results. It would also train the companies' human resources
development staff and training instructors. Finally, it would disseminate
information on in-company training with regard to its organizational, legal,
pedagogic and financial aspects. All these activities would be developed through
a network of consultants, who would directly compete with private intermediaries
to meet the needs of the enterprises. In line with the new vocational training
tax regulations, MSC staff would concentrate on promoting training systems and
methodologies, rather than on approving training plans and granting tax rebates,
as is now the case (para. 1.35).
2.22        The MSC would also assist companies in the selection of their
personnel. This type of service is already provided by the CCAE on a fee basis
to some 50 public enterprises located in the Tunis area. However, there is a
need to broaden the range and improve the quality of these services. Testing
instruments, which are primarily "paper and pencil" and hand administered and
scored, need to be modernized. There is also a need to develop new tests directed
at the evaluation and reassignment/retraining of experienced adults who may have
become redundant due to restructuring of enterprises. The MSC would also provide
assistance to companies in the placement of high-level staff. This function is
currently performed by BNEC, which is located in the Tunis area. In 1988, BNEC
registered some 1,960 applicants and placed about 700 high level staff. In order
to carry out its mandate efficiently, it will be necessary to upgrade staff
skills and to introduce more modern processing systems.
2.23        In order to be responsive to the needs of enterprises, the proposed
MSC would be managed with a large degree of autonomy. It is expected to charge
fees, for the services provided to enterprises in the areas of in-company
training and staff selection, which would progressively approximate full cost.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed these arrangements (para. 5.02).
2.24        The MSC would be located in an existing OFPE building in Tunis which
would need to be refurbished. It would receive modern computing, printing and
audio-visual equipment, as well as pedagogic/training materials. The majority
of the 40 high-level staff would originate from the existing OFPE structures and
would need to upgrade their skills through a combination of expert services and
training abroad. The proposed project would assist the Government in the
development of the NSC by financing minor works, equipment, expert services and
scholarships.
(ii) Orientation and Information. The development, updating and dissemination
of occupational and educational information would be expanded and systematized
(para.  1.19).   Occupational and educational information is essential for
orientation of young people and adults and for education and training
institutions and enterprises. OFPE would use audio-visual and computer
techniques, in addition to printed materials, to promote direct use of
information by clients.



- 19 -
2.25        OFPE is in the process of decentralizing its activities.   Six
regional orientation units (URO) have been created in Tunis, Bizerte, Jendouba,
Sousse, Sfax and Gabes. The effectiveness of these UROs depends, to a large
extent, upon the availability of modern tests, audio-visual and printed
materials. The proposed project would finance equipment, expert services and
scholarships to strengthen the production of printed materials in the OFPE
Graphic Art Center in Ariana and the production of audio-visual materials in the
OFPE Rades Center.
(iii) Labor market monitoring. The Direction of Planning and Statistics (DPS)
is mainly involved with the monitoring of OFPE labor market and training
activities. It also provides assistance to the Ministry of Planning and Finance
and to the National Institute of Statistics, which ultimately are responsible
for recording and analyzing employment and labor market trends. In order to
improve the quality of information on employment and the labor market, OFPE would
develop a labor market "observatory" which would monitor placement of young
people in the labor market.   This would be accomplished through surveys of
employers, employment promotion program beneficiaries and training institutions,
as well as through tracer studies. The proposed project would finance computer
equipment, expert services and fellowships to improve the quality of information
on employment and labor market insertion.
(iv) Management and Evaluation of ETF. The proposed project would finance
vehicles, micro-computers, copy machines, as well as expert services to the
various units managing ETF activities. These include the Project Coordination
Unit at the national level and the various OFPE regional delegations in the
participating Governorates,  which would be adequately staffed.   Recurrent
implementation costs resulting from the creation of ETF are included in total
project costs (para. 3.07). In addition, OFPE would sub-contract the supervision
routine reporting of specific sub-projects to experienced training specialists
who would be recruited on a contractual basis. These costs would be covered by
ETF. Finally, the proposed project would finance expert services to complete
an evaluation of ETF halfway through the life of the project (para. 3.11).



- 20 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, KA74AGEHENT AND INPl MENTATION.
3.01                 Summary  of  Proiect  Costs.    Project  Costs  are  estimated  at
31.1 million of Tunisian Dinars (TD), or US$34.7 million equivalent. The costs
by project components are shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Cost by Component
TO (M)                                  uS'  (M)                            X Total
....  ........... ......... -           Foreign         SasO
Locat    Foreign         Total          Local  Foreign        Total        Exchange        Costs
..4.. .............. . .; ..        ....  .w...... .....  .; . ................... ......   . ........ 
A. ETF                                        25.6          3.0        28.6           28.6         3.3       31.9            10.4         92.6
B. Institutional Devt                          0.7          1.6          2.3            0.8        1.8        2.6            70.0          7.4
;~............ .....   ..                .............................      .. .; *^ *.........     ........................ ;;-+^*s..... ...---*--*
Total BASELINE COSTS                          26.3          4.6        30.9           29.4         5.1       34.5            14.8       100.0
Physical Contingencies                      0.0         0.0          0.0            0.0        0.0        0.0              0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                        0.1          0.1          0.2            0.1        0.2        0.2            76.2          0.7
i; .... ...... .. .. ... ....          .. .. ..... ---------------                  ...... ......... .............. ......
Total PROJECTS COSTS                          26.4          4.7        31.1           29.4         5.3       34.7             5.2       100.7
.___ ..........__..__.___.................._._._.........__.._._.___.................. __...._.______.__ ..........................  ............. _ .__ __
*/20/1990 13:05
3.02                A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in
Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Project Costs by Catejorv of Ebaenditures
To (M)                                  ust (M)                             I Total
----.. . . . . .   X Foreign        Bse
Locat   Foreign          Total          Local  Forefin        Total        Exchange        Costs
,.................. ..................    . ..... ......... ..... ...... .    ....................
t. INVESTMNT COSTS
..... ....... . ...
A. Training Services                           9.6          0.0          9.6           10.7        0.0       10.7              0.0        31.0
S. Stipends                                   13.1          0.0         13.1           14.6        0.0       14.6              0.0        42.4
C. Materials & Consumables                     2.9          3.0          5.9            3.3        3.3        6.6            50.1         19.2
0. Equipment                                    0.3         0.8          1.2            0.4        0.9         1.3           70.1          3.7
E. Civil Works                                 0.1          0.1          0.2            0.1        0.1        0.2            50.1          0.7
f. Expert Services                             0.0          0.5          0.5            0.0        0.5        0.5           100.0          1.6
S. Feltouships                                 0.0          0.2          0.2            0.0        0.2        0.2           100.0          0.6
................    ...........................  ......  .        .      _.. .. .. .. .. .....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        26.1          4.6        30.6           29.1         5.1       34.2            14.9         99.2
... .... .... .... . . ........        ........... ... .... . ........    ... .... .........
11. RECURRENT COSTS
.... ..... .......
A. Proj. Mgt. Recur. Cost                      0.2          0.0          0.2            0.3        0.0        0.3              0.0         0.8
.......................                   .__. _.... ..............             .._...... ........... .
~~~~. .... ...... .. ... ..... .. .......  ......................... ..    ......... ...............
Total BASELINE COSTS                          26.3          4.6        30.9           29.4         5.1       34.5            14.8        100.0
Physical Contingencies                      0.0         0.0          0.0            0.0        0.0         0.0             0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                         0.1         0.1          0.2            0.1        0.2        0.2             76.2         0.7
------ .~ .........                  ...... ............................. ........... .................. .. ..
Total PROJECTS COSTS                          264           4.7        31.1           29.4         5.3       34.7            15.2        100.7
.............................-         . ..........                   ........................................ .................
-/20/19O 13:06



- 21 -
3.03        Basis of Cost Estimates.  Equipment costs have been estimated on
the basis of existing equipment lists and of appraisal mission estimates.
Technical assistance costs have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for
comparable technical assistance. Specialists' costs include housing, relocation
costs, salaries, subsistence, office services, fees, overhead and recruitment
costs. Base cost estimates reflect prices as projected at the time of
negotiations (June 1990).
3.04        Customs Duties and Taxes.   Project costs include an estimated
US$2.2 million  in  direct  and   indirect  taxes  on   training  services
(US$1.1 million),   and  on  locally  produced  materials  and  consumables
(US$1.1 million). However, equipment and goods imported directly for use by
Government ministries are exempt from duties and stipends and allowances, as well
as expert service costs are net of taxes.
3.03        Contingency Allowances.  Price contingencies between negotiations
and the end of project implementation (December 1993) have been applied to the
institutional development component only, and are estimated at US$0.2 million
equivalent or 0.7% of base cost.  Annual rates of price increases have been
appli;.d to both foreign and local costs at the annual rate of 4.9% from 1990 to
1993.
3.06        Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) training services - 0%; (b) stipends and allowances
- OX; (c) materials and consumables - 70X; (d) equipment - 70%; (e) civil works -
501; (f) expert services - 100%, and (g) fellowships   100%.
3.07        Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project, very low levels of
additional recurrent costs would be generated since: (a) regional ETF management
would be mainly assigned to existing OFPE staff who would be redeployed and
technical supervision would be sub-contracted to private supervisors through the
Fund; (b) the actual implementation of fund activities would be contracted out
to mostly private operators; and (c) the institutional development compor.ent
would not entail the creation of new structures but rather, the merging of
existing ones (para. 2.20).   The only incremental recurrent costs would be
generated by the creation of a few additional positions to manage ETF activities,
by the financing of field visits and coordination seminars and by the provision
of essantial materials for ETF implementation units.   The total incremental
recurrent costs for project management and evaluation, not counting self-
liquidating expenses reimbursed to sub-project contractors, would amount to
US$0.3 million in 1990 prices over a three year period. It is estimated that
total administrative costs, including fees for non-governmental agents
administering sub-projects, would not exceed 10% of ETF disbursements.
Proiect Financing
3.08       The total project cost of US$34.7 million equivalent would be financed
as follows: (a) a proposed IBRD loan of US$12 million equivalent would finance
34.5% of total project cost; (b) a proposed USAID loan of US$4.5 million
equivalent would finance 13.0% of total project cost; (c) enterprises
participating in ETF would finance US$8.5 million equivalent (including
US$0.8 million in taxes), or 24.5% of total project cost; and (d) the Government



- 22 -
would finance the remaining US$9.7 million equivalent (including US$1.4 million
in taxes), or 28X of total project cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$12 million
equivalent would finance 66X of the foreign exchange component of the project
(US$3.5 million) and 31.2X of local costs net of taxes (US$8.5 million). This
significant contribution to local expenditures is justified by the social content
and institutional objectives of Bank participation in this program. A breakdown
of project financing is shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: inipdngi Plan
.(IjS--- ( ion) ---------------
Category             GCav't  Ent.  Sank  USAID  Total
........................................................................
Training Services      1.9   3.3   3.0   1.4   9.6
Stipends              S.2   2.1   5.2   2.1  14.6
Materials & Conswi.    0.6   2.3   1.6   1.0   5.5
Equipment             0.0   0.0   1.3   0.0   1.3
Civil Works           0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3
Expert Services       0.0   0.0   0.5   0.0   0.5
Fellowships           0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.2
Recurrent Costs       0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3
Unallocated            0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.2
.......  ...........  ........... ............. ..............
Sub-Total     8.3   7.7  12.0   4.5  32.5
(net of taxes)
........................................................................
Taxes                 1.4   0.8   0.0   0.0   2.2
..................
Total Project Costs    9.7   8.5  12.0-  4.5  34.7
Management and Implementation
3.09       The proposed project has been designed to build on well-established
mechanisms and structures. MFPE through the OFPE would be responsible for the
implementation of the project. A project coordinator and his staff would be
appointed by December 31, 1990. The Project Coordinator would overview the work
of implementing departments, monitor progress, and liaise with the Bank. He would
be assisted by two operations officers specialized respectively, in sub-project
identification and supervisior. and one accountant. The Project Coordinator and
his staff would be maintained with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
In addition, ETF managers would be appointed in each participating Governorate
to assist regional OFPE representatives in ETF activities identification and
supervision. The actual implementation of sub-projects would rest with private
sub-contractors such as the enterprises themselves, private training/placement
intermediaries and independent trainers recruited on a contractual basis. ETF
managers would liaise with enterprises and private intermediaries as appropriate.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the Project
Coordinator and his staff would be maintained as indicated above and that full-
time ETF managers would be appointed in all participating Governorates
(para. 5.02).



- 23 -
3.10        The institutional development program would be implemented by the
relevant OFPE directorates under the coordination of the Project Coordinator:
(a) The Multi-Service Center (MSC) would be created by regrouping three
existing OFPE structures (para. 2.20). The MSC would have a high level staff
of about 40, coming from the Directorate of In-Company Training (DFE), the
National Bureau for Placement of High Level Staff (BNEC) and the Center for
Assistance to Enterprises (CCAE).
(b) The Directorate of Employment and Orientation Networks (DREO), which
has a high-level staff of about 30, would be responsible for the orientation
and information component of the institutional development program.
(c) The Directorate of Planning and Statistics (DPS), which has 6 high
level staff-members, would be responsible for carrying out the program to improve
information on employment and labor market insertion.
(d) Finally, ETF management and evaluation, financed under the
institutional development component of the Project, would be implemented under
the supervision of the Project Coordinator at the central level and of the
Regional OFPE Representatives at the local level.
SuDervision. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.11        Statistical  Reports  would  be  prepared  by  OFPE  regional
representatives and made available on a monthly basis to the Regional
Coordination Committee and to the National Management Committee. These reports
would include financial information and relevant statistics on the number of
people enrolled in each program and the number of people maintained in the job
six months after completion of training activities. Quarterly reports would be
prepared by the Project Coordinator on the basis of information provided by
participating Governorates and on the basis of regular visits to ongoing sub-
projects. In addition, in order to assess the qualitative and quantitative impact
of ETF as well as its organization and finances, a mid-term evaluation of ETF
activities would be completed no later than December 31, 1992. This evaluation
would evaluate the pertinence and impact of ETF activities in light of changing
labor market conditions and adjust guidelines, standard activities and procedures
accordingly. The study would be furnished to the Bank for review and comment.
Based on such review, all measures necessary to finalize such recommendations
would be taken. During negotiations, the Government confirmed these arrangements
(para. 5.02). The project would be supervised and monitored by the Bank through
normal supervision mechanisms, and will require about 32 staffweeks over the
three years of implementation.                              x-



- 24 -
Procurement
3.12        Procurement arrangements are described below and summarized in the
following Table:
Table 3.4:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(Total Costs of Proposed Project Components Including Contingencies)
Project Element        ICB  LS bt    NA  Total
.........................................................
Training Services                   10.7  10.7
(3.0)  (3.0)
Stipends & Allowances               14.6  14.6
(5.2)  (5.2)
Materials & Consumbies        6.6           6.6
01.6)        (1.6)
Equipnmmt              1.1   0.3           1.4
(1.1)  (0.3)        (1.4)
Civit Works                   0.3           0.3
(0.0)        (0.0)
Expert Services                      0.6   0.6
(0.6)  (0.6)
Fellowships                          0.2   0.2
(0.2)  (0.2)
Incre mntal Recurrent                0.3   0.3
Expenses                          (0.0)  (0.0)
_ ____..............____........... _....................... ...........................
Totat         1.1   7.2  26.4  34.7
Bank financing:  (1.1)  (1.9)  (9.0)  (12.0)
............ ........................ .. .. ... ----------------------.............................. .. ... 
aj Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
the Bsank loan.
b/ Local Shopping.
3.13        (i)  Training  service  contracts  (including  both  salaries  and
materials) would be awarded to private intermediaries. Given the small amount
of each contract (not exceeding US$30,000 for six months on average), they would
be awarded on the basis of sole sourcing;
(ii) stiRends and allowances would be granted to individual trainees
and job-seekers by OFPE;
(iii) materials and consumables (small contracts, not exceeding
US$20,000 for six months on average and aggregating to a maximum of
US$1.6 million) would be purchased on the basis of price quotation from at least
three eligible suppliers;
(iv) contracts for equigment would as far as possible be grouped
into four major packages of goods, each estimated to cost approximately the
equivalent of US$300,000, and the contents of which could typically be supplied
by one supplier.  These items, estimated to cost US$1.1 million equivalent,
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(May 1985). In comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 20X over the
c.i.f. prices of competing imports.   Sundry equipment items not exceeding



- 25 -
US$50,000 in each contract and aggregating to a maximum of US$350,000 equivalent
could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations.
(v) Awarding of civil works contracts would be done through prudent
shopping on the basis of priced quotations from at least three local contractors.
3.14        Under ICB procedures, all bidding packages for goods over US$250,000
equivalent (about 80X of the total estimated value of goods contracts), would
be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. The remaining
equipment contracts, as well as, civil works contracts, contracts or allowances
awarded under ETF, and all technical assistance contracts would be subject to
selective post-award reviews.
Technical Assistance
3.15        To simplify management of technical assistance, OFPE would obtain
specialist services and fellowships as comprehensive TA contracts. At least
three training institutions would be requested to submit proposals, following
a shortlisting of institutions acceptable to the Bank. The consultants would be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency".
Status of Preparation
3.16        The proposed project would be disbursed in about three years in
accordance with Schedule II. This project is in a state of preparation that
would permit rapid and timely implementation because: (a) the mechanisms of the
Fund have been tested during the first half of CY1990; (b) the technical
assistance package has been fully defined and draft terms of reference have been
prepared. Project completion would be December 31, 1993 and the Closing Date
woull be June 30, 1994.
Disbursements
3.17        The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of about three
years (Schedule III). Disbursements would be made against:
(a) 501 of expenditures under ETF;
(b) 100l of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and
materials and 80% of local expenditures for locally purchased
equipment, and materials; and
(c) 100% of expenditures for consultant services and fellowships.
3.18        Disbursements for all items under the ETF would be made against
certified statement of expenditures (SOE) including contracts for training
services, lists of recipients in the case of stipends or allowances with the
amounts provided, and invoices for materials and consumables, as well as,
equipment contracts below US$50,000.   Supporting documents for SOE would be
retained until one year after loan closing by the implementing agency and made
available for review by the Bank during supervision. Disbursements for the other
items would be made upon receipt by the Bank of fully documented applications.



- 26 -
Special Account
3.19        To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Special Account in US dollars to which the Bank would make an initial
deposit, equivalent to about US$1 million. This allocation represents about four
months' projected Bank disbursements during the peak year. The Special Account
would be replenished on a monthly basis for a minimum amount of US$0.2 million
or when at least 30% of the amount of the initial deposit has been withdrawn from
the Special Account, whichever comes first.  Documentation for replenishment
requests would follow the same procedure as in paragraph 4.18.  In addition,
monthly bank statements of the Special Account would accompany replenishment
requests.
Accounts and Audits
3.20        OFPE, in accordance with acceptable accounting practices, would
maintain accounts for the project and would prepare every quarter a detailed
statement reflecting project expenditures during that period and projected
expenditures for the forthcoming quarter. Within 45 days after the end of each
quarter, OFPE would submit copies of these statements to the Bank to facilitate
supervision. Project accounts including the Special Account would be audited
in accordance with the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank".  The Bank would be provided
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year with an audit report of such
scope andvdetail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion
by the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of expenditures..
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances to this effect
(para. 5.02).



- 27 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01        The proposed project would make a valuable contribution towards
providing employment and income generation for the long-term unemployed. The
major quantifiable benefit would be an estimated 30,000 people placed into
productive employment over a pilot three year period which could be extended and
replicated later. While the objective of the proposed project is to adapt the
profile of the labor force to existing jobs, it is clear that the capacity of
enterprises to mobilize human resources rapidly will result in further
Mnvestmertts and thus, the creatior of additional jobs. This is particularly true
in a period when sub-contracting for European industries seems to be developing
quickly. In addition, one of the standard activities of ETF is to assist people
into establishing themselves as small entrepreneurs or independent workers, which
will have a direct effect, as well as an induced effect on job creation. The
indirect effects of introducing pro-active employment strategies and improving
efficiency of training systems will also increase labor mobility and employers'
hiring response to market conditions.
4.02        The restructuring of existing employment promotion programs as well
as the testing of new programs will result into more effective resource
allocation in an area which claims an increasing share of Government resources.
The institutional development component, targeting key employment and training
services, will improve the quality and speed of the "fit" of job entrants and
lower transactional costs.   The indirect and spinoff benefits, in terms of
enhancing local area initiative capacity, spurring micro-enterprise development
and development of private intermediaries, could be substantial.
Environmental Impact
4.03        The project was reviewed under the Bank's Environmental Assessment
procedures and determined to be in Category C for projects which do not result
in a significant environmental impact.
Risks
4.04        The major risk lies in the capacity of the regional administration
to design sub-projects, identify suitable private intermediaries and manage ETF
operations. The first batch of sub-projects, implemented in the first quarter
of CY90 with USAID financing, has demonstrated the capacity of regional OFPE
administrations to plan and implement ETF activities consistent with proposed
guidelines and procedures. During appraisal, particular attention was paid to
decentralizing administration and ensuring that additional resources - both human
and material - be provided to the various implementing units at the central and
regional levels.   The other risk relates to possible future organizational
changes within MFPE and its specialized agency, OFPE. This point was discussed
at length during negotiations and the Tunisian delegation provided adequate
assurances that project implementation would not be adversely affected by any
such internal reorganization.



- 28 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01        During  negotiations,  the  Government  agreed  on  the  following
conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a)   A National ETF Management Committee would be created with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.09).
(b)   A manual of procedures setting out the terms and conditions for the
processing, monitoring and financing of employment and training activities under
ETF, as detailed in Annex 2, would be finalized (para. 2.13).
(c)   ETF would be established through a specially earmarked budgetary
allocation (para. 2.14).
5.02        During negotiations, the Government agreed on the following:
(a)   The period available to employment offices, to identify a suitable
candidate, before a company can advertise a job offer in the press would be
reduced from two weeks to two days (para. 1.21).
(b)   No later than December 31, 1990, the Government would phase out the
recruitment contracts program (para. 1.31).
(c)   No later than December 31, 1991, a cost-benefit analysis of existing
employment promotion programs would be carried out and provided to the Bank for
review and comments. Based on such review, all necessary measures to carry out
such recommendations would be taken (para. 1.31).
(d)   The standard activities, detailed in Annex 1, would be eligible for
financing by ETF, under the specific conditions described for each type of
activity (para. 2.07).
(e)   The Multi-Service Center would charge fees which would progressively
approximate full cost, for the services provided in the area of in-company
training and staff selection (para. 2.23).
(f)   The Project Coordinator and his staff would be appointed by December
31, 1990. The Project Coordinator and his staff would be maintained, with terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank, for the duration of the project and full-
time project managers would be appointed in all participating Governorates
(para. 3.09).
(g)   No later than December 31, 1992, a mid-term evaluation study would
be completed assessing the quantitative and qualitative impact of ETF, as well
as, its organization and finances and would be provided to the Bank for review
and comment.   Based on such review, all necessary measures to improve the
effectiveness of ETF-financed activities would be taken (par. 3.11).
(h)   Projects accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited
annually by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and audit reports would then be
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. The
audit would be of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified
statements of expenses (para. 3.20).



- 29 -
_ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Eligible Activities under ETF
1.    TRAINING FOR PLACEMENT IN AN ENTERPRISE
Objectives: To provide short-term training to job-seekers to
prepare them for a particular job and ensure their recruitment by the company.
Beneficiaries: Unskilled and semi-skilled job-seekers:
-     18 years of age or older (with exceptions possible in the
agriculture sector) to avoid duplications with the apprenticeship
training system;
-    primary and secondary education levels;
-    priority for the long-term unemployed, 20 and older.
Description of the operation: Acquisition of specific skills
necessary for taking up a particular position through a training period
combining practical and theoretical work. Stipends will be given to the
trainees to cover their expenses during the training period.
Selection criteria:
-     training duration not to exceed 9 months;
-    prior commitment by a private company (in the form of a contract);
-     existence of a private training provider (company, trainer on a
contractual basis, training institutions).
-     priority given to training organized within the company;
-    maximum amount per trainee: TD 1,000 (covered by ETF).
Agencies inmolved: The OFPE Regional Representatives will define
training content, identify suitable operators, select eligible participants
and monitor training activities. The training will be provided by a private
entity. Training equipment which cannot be provided by the company will be
provided by OFPE from its own equipment stock.
BTF financing:
-     Stipends for trainees (cost split between the enterprise ax.d the
ETF up to a maximum of half a minimum wage (SMIG) paid by the
Fund).
-     training contract with a private operator;
-    materials and consumables;
-     transportation allowance.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Evaluation criteria:
-    number of people receiving stipends;
-    number of trainees having the required skills;
-    number of trainees recruited;
-     assessment by the companies regarding the skills acquired during
training;
-     Situation of participants 6 months after placement.
Justification and expected results: The lack of professional
experience is often an obstacle to recruitmenc into 8 stable position.
Apprenticeship, the main training/placement tuol, is not available for job-
seekers over 18. Professional Life Insertion Internships (SIVP) available to
young people with secondary-level education do not provide skills and offer a
stipend which is not very attractive and have not produced any significant
results in terms of placement in their current form. There is an almost
complete absence of short-term training arrangements capable of meeting the
immediate specific needs of companies, together with a very low propensity for
finding ways of filling existing vacancies by providing specific training to
existing job-seekers. New financing mechanisms, emphasizing streamlined
procedures, will put companies in contact with training operators and promote
the development of initiatives.
2.    TRAINING FOR INSTALIATION IN SELF-EMPLOYMENT
Objectives: To enable a potential entrepreneur to acquire the
additional skills required to set up a business.
Beneficialies: Potential entrepreneurs or independent craftsmen.
Minimum education required: 3rd year of secondary school or graduate from
vocational training, with a minimum of 5 years professional experience.
DescriRtion of the operation: Tnis involves either technical
training and/or management training for a small enterprise. Training may take
place in Tunisia or abroad, either in a training institution or in a company.
Selection criteria:
-     Installation of an independent craftsman: submission of a proposal
to the OFPE Regional Representative for approval;
-     Creation of a new enterprise: existence of a financing application
processed by a financial organization with evidence of a project
design and a promoter;
-     Identification of the specific skills required to set up the
business;
-    Acceptance of candidate by a private operator (enterprise,
training institution, incubator);
-    Limitation of one year;
-    Maximum amount per beneficiary: TD 3,000.
Agencies involved: Applications will be submitted to the OFPE
Regional Representatives. Eligible private operators will carry out the



- 31 -
Page 3 of 5
operation.
ETZ financing:
-     Service contract, signed uith the operator covering training and
technical assistance costs;
-    Stipend to the trainee designed to cover subsistence and travel
expenses.
Evaluatlon crit-eriA:
-    number of beneficiaries;
-    number of persons having the required skills;
number of businesses created;
-    employment generated.
Justification and results expected: In many cases, the
acquisition of additional skills or practical knowledge is a prerequisite for
the establishment of small-sized businesses. Constraints may result from the
reluctance of banks to provide financing as long as the promoter lacks the
appropriate skills or from the promoter himself who, lacking the proper
individual preparation, may hesitate to initiate business activities.
3.    IN COMPANY TRAINING/EXTENSION SERVICES
Obiectivel: To improve the organization of production and the
skill level of staff in order to improve productivity in an enterprise.
Beneficiaries: Production and service companies and their
semi-skilled and skilled manpower.
Description of the oDeration: This involves the financing of some
of the activities of a specialized organization that can help improve
production conditions in the company and the upgrading of its staff.  These
activities include organizational structure, human resources development,
training plans, and organization and implementation of specific training
activities.  For small companies, activities could be grouped to avoid
scattered operations.
Selection criteria:
-     the company must have already committed the equivalent of the
amount of the vocational training tax;
-     the company must have prepared an application (statement of
objectives, operator identified, activities planned, costs,
results expected in terms of productivity);
-     the operation can only be financed once a year for each
participating company.
Agencies ir.volved: Specialized private organizations.
ETF_financing: Services contracts for studies, seminars, and



- 32 -
NEX I
Page 4 of 5
training expenses including expert services, documents and pedagogical
material. ETF covers 50X of total amount.
Evaluation criteria:
-    number of participating companies, by sector;
-     impact achieved, in terms of organization and skill upgrading.
Justification and expected results: Very little is currently
being done within companies to improve productivity. It is necessary to
promote in-company training, which is a prerequisite for the survival of
companies operating in a competitive market. Productivity improvements
resulting from a process of skills enhancement should permit the consolidation
of existing jobs.
4.    SUB-CONTRACTING TO TRAINING/PLACEMENT COMPANIES
Obiectives: To multiply the Government's efforts in the area of
placement by encouraging the emergence of companies or associations geared
toward preparing applicants for employment through the acquisition of skills,
professional knowledge, techniques for seeking employment and information on
the labor market.
Beneficiaries: The long-term unemployed, 18 years of age or older
skilled and semi-skilled groups.
Descrintion of the operation: This involves the establishment of
a private training institution/placement that will provide short-term training
to job-seekers with priority given to the long-term unemployed to prepare them
for a specific semi-skilled or skilled position in a company. The training/
placement institution will assess opportunities and select areas in which
vacancies exist. It will be remunerated on the basis of a subsidy for each
person trained and placed in a job.
Selection criteria:
-    beneficiaries selected by OFPE;
-     training not to exceed nine months;
-     the subsidies will only be paid against evidence of placement
(recruitment contract);
-     the trainees do not pay the cost of the training;
-     maximum amount of subsidy: TD 1,500 per trainee.
Agencies involved: Training/placement companies.
ETF financing:
-     Subsidy for each applicant accepted, trained and placed (to be
determined according to the nature of the training and the type of
applicant accepted);
-     Stipend given to trainees (up to a maximum of half the minivum
wage (SMIG).



- 33 -
Page 5 of 5
Evaluation criteria:
-     number of applicants accepted and trained;
-     number of applicants placed after training;
Justification and expected results: This scheme will test a new
approach to training ard placement. An integrated service (orientation,
training, placement) will be provided to job-seekers, as compared to the
existing situation, where inadequate orientation is provided and operations
are dispersed among a number of intermediaries (training centers on the one
hand and placement offices on the other).
5.    ALLOWANCE FOR JOB INTERVIEW RELOCATION CLOSE TO JOB SITE
Obiectives: To enable job-seekers to travel to take advantage of
potential employment opportunities and facilitate their placement or to allow
them to participate in selection operations.
Beneficiaries: Job-seekers who cannot find employment ir their
present location.
DescriRtion of the oReration: Allowance will be provided by the
Employment Office with which the applicant is registered. They will cover
travel and possibly housing expenses for a few days.
Selection criteria:
-     on the basis of a proposal from the head of the Employment Office;
-     only in cases where an appropriate job offer has been identified;
-     maximum amount of subsidy: TD 100
Agencies involved: The OFPE Regional Representative will identify
the need with the head of the Employment Office, verify eligibility criteria
and provide the allowance.
ETF financing: Cost of transportation and housing.
Evaluation criteria:
-     number of job-seekers having received the allowance;
-     number of job-seekers finding employment as a result of the
program.
Justification and expected results: The long-term unemployed
sometimes have absolutely no resources and cannot pay the cost of
transportation that would enable them to respond to certain offers.
Furthermore, there is a certain resistance to traveling. The availability of
an allowance will encourage job-seekers to present themselves and, in some
cases, to take up the position offered.



- 35 -
AML 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC QF TUNISIA
EMiPOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETF'S STRUCTURE, ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
1.    ETF structures:
a) Natiunal Management Committee
- Composition: Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training
Office of Vocational Training and Employment (OFPE)
Ministry of Interior
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Planning
General Commissariat for Regional Development (CGDR)
Representatives from UTICA and UGTT
- Chairman: Ministry of Employment and Vocational Training
- Executive Secretariat: OFPE
- Functions: the Committee will meet quarterly or upon special request from
its president to:
* formulate OFPE's general guidelines, and regularly monitor the
implementation of ETF activities.
* review quarterly progress reports prepared by the National Executive
Secretariat;
* examine and approve, in agreement with the Bank, the sub-projects submitted
by the governorates for which the amount exceeds the pre-determined cei'ling;
* approve, in agreement with the Bank, the participation of any new
governorate to the ETF;
* examine and approve, in agreement with the Bank, possible changes to be made
to existing ETF standard activities, as well as, the introduction of new ones.
- Role of the National Executive Secretariat:
* to ensure continuous liaison with the governorates and provide the technical
assistance as appropriate;
* to be responsible for the financial management at the national level;
* to supervise the operations through the monthly reports prepared by the
Regional Representatives and visits in the field; prepare quarterly progress
reports based on the information gathered, which will be submitted to the
National Committee and to the Bank.
b) ETF Regional Coordination Committee
The ETF Regional Coordination Committee is in charge of the coordination of
all ETF activities at the level of each participating governorate.
- Composition: Governor



- 36 -
ANNE= 
Page 2 of 4
Representatives of the CGDR;
Representatives of the relevant technical ministries;
Representatives of the productive sectors;
OFPE Regional Representatives;
Representatives from UTICA and UGTT
- Chairman: Governor
- Executive Secretariat: OFPE Regional Representatives
- Functions of the Regional Committee:
* to discuss and approve orientations and priorities suggested by OFPE's
Regional Representatives for the ETF activities within the governorate;
* to identify ETF sub-projects;
* to monitor the implementation of ETF operations in order to insure that
relevant services involved in the sub-projects are quickly mobilized.
- Role of the Executive Secretariat:
* to mobilize different public and private organizations for the
identification of sub-projects;
* to negotiate conventions with different operators to implement ETF's sub-
projects;
* to ensure ETF's financial management and control of expenditures at the
governorate level;
* to monitor implementation of sub-projects in the field, and assess their
impact;
* to prepare monthly progress reports for the National Executive Secretariat.
Organizational Procedures
a) Standard Procedure: for sub-projects under the pre-determined ceiling of
TD 100,000, conform with standard activities and that are taking place in any
participating governorate.
It consists of:
- identification: OFPE's Regional Representatives, together with the concerned
organizations at the level of each governorate;
- scheduling of actions: OFPE's Regional Representatives who inform the
Regional Committee;
- implementation of actions: operators identified itt each governorate.
b) Exceotional Procedures:
- Procedure for approval of a sub-project above the pre-determined ceiling of
100,000 TD: the sub-project will be submitted to the Bank for approval and
then to the National Committee.
- Procedure for introduction of a new standard ETF activity:
* the new standard activity, proposed by the National Executive Secretariat,
will be submitted to the Bank for approval and then to the National Committee;



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
* the new activity proposed will meet several criteria:
(a) that it is based on the availability of jobs for the beneficiaries;
(b) that it targets the long-term unemployed, age 18 and older;
(c) that it involves a private intermediary; and
(d) that the cost per person placed is adequate.
- Procedure for the participation of a new governorate in the ETF:
* the National Executive Secretariat will propose the participation of a new
governorate to the World Bank and then to the National Committee for their
approval.
* In order to qualify, the new governorate will have to meet the following
criteria:
(a) that sub-projects which conform with the standard activities have been
identified;
(b) that six-month indicative programming of activities is available;
(c) that an ETF manager has been appointed;
(d) that local representatives have been properly informed and trained in
ETF's procedures and activities.
c) Programs Monitoring and Control
- OFPE's Regional Representatives are in charge of the monitoring of
activities financed under ETF. They regularly visit the sub-projects under
implementation and prepare monthly progress reports, enumerating, for each
standard activity, the number of sub-projects being developed, the populations
concerned, and the results achieved in relation to the objectives and the
expenditures incurred by category of disbursement.
- The National Executive Secretariat will be in charge of the overall
monitoring of ETF.
* It will set up a monitoring system to consolidate the data provided by the
governorates on a monthly basis.
* It will regularly visit the governorates and the locations where ETF
operations are being implemented (at least for 25X of the sub-projects).
* On the basis of the monthly reports and visits in the field, the National
Secretariat will prepare quarterly ETF progress reports, which will be
submitted to the National Management Committee and to the World Bank.
* The National Executive Secretariat will also organize quarterly seminars
among the Regional Delegations participating in the ETF with a view to
exchanging views and information and will provide technical assistance at the
request of the Regional Delegations.
d) Evaluation
- Each Regional Representative will gather statistics on professional
placement of ETF's beneficiaries (6 months after the completion of the
program) in order to help evaluate the sub-projects.
- A complete evaluation of ETF's achievements will be carried out halfway
through the life of the project, which will allow for reorientation of ETP's
activities and procedures for the rest of the life of the project. It will



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
reassess ETF in the context of changing labor market conditions, recruitment
difficulties for the unemployed and in light of the performance of other
existing employment promotion programs. This study will also help determine
the relevance of ETF's activities and identify problems. It will be prepared
by experts outside OFPE.
Financial Manaenement of ETF
- OFPE, as Executive Secretariat of the National Committee, will be in charge
of ETF's financial management.
- The General Direction of the Budget will establish an ETF budgetary
allocation for OFPE in the amount of the project financed by the Government.
In addition, a special account will be opened at the Central Bank in US$ to
cover the IBRD share of project financing. IBRD would make an initial deposit
of US$2 million to the Special Account.
- On the basis of actual expenditures incurred under specific sub-projects,
the Regional Representatives will request reimbursement to OFPE's Financial
Direction. In most cases, a cash advance will be made available to the
Regional Delegations.
- OFPE, as National Executive Secretariat, will ask for reimbursement against
certified statement of expenditures to the Central Bank which will manage the
Special Account financed by IBRD. Reimbursement will cover 50X of actual
expenditures.
- For each withdrawal application, both the sub-project and disbursement
categories will be clearly specified (stipends, training contracts, materials
and consumables).
- Supporting documentation (list of stipend recipients, services contracts,
invoices) will be sent to the Bank along with reimbursement applications; one
copy would be kept by the Central Bank for records and control.



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYEWNT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data on Employment
Table 1
Labor Force and Employment
(1000)
1975      1984       1989   Growth Rate
lo00      to0w       0000 
PopulatIon                       5,588 :  6,975 :   7,909 :    2.5
Nole                           2,841 :  3,546 :   4,013 :
Female                         2,747 :  3,429 :   3,896 :
Labor Force t5 and over          1,622 :  2,137 :   2,360 :    2.7
nate                           1,318 :  1,682 :   1,866 :
Female                           304 :    455 :       494 :
Efptovment                       1,366 :  1,786 :   1,970 :    2.7
:  1,398 :   1,552 :
388 :      386:
Labor Force Participation (X)     50.2 :   50.5 :        48
Nate                            81.1:    78.6 :    75.2:
Femate                            10 :   21.9 :       19.2
Unemplctment (X) (15 and over)    15.8 :   16.4 :       16.1
MaLe                                       16.9 :    14.7:
Famle                                :   14.7 :    21.9 :
Unheployment (X) (18-60)          12.9 :    13.1 :    15.3
Male                            13.4 :   13.7 :       13.9
Fealte                          10.9:       11 :    20.9:
Source: Ministry of Plan



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data on Employment
Table 2
Evolution of the Euployed
Labor Force by Sector 1/
(in '000)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
1975     1980       1984      1988    (1989-1988)
....     .....      ....      ---   ... .... .... .. ..
I  Agriculture & Fishing        508.9 :  551.7 :       476 :    481 :    -1.7
1- Industry                     401.6 :  504.7 :       632 :    678 :       3.8
Nanufacturing                 235.2 :  299.9 :       355 :    407 :       3.9
Food Industries              19.3 :   29.6        28.2 :   32.3 :       1.1
Textiles                    145.1 :  171.1 :   203.9 :  233.8 :           4
Buitdfng Materials           10.2 :   19.8 :    27.4 :   31.4 :         5.9
Chemicals                     7.6 :   11.4 :    11.2 :   12.8 :         1.5
other Manufacturing          53.1 :      68 :    84.4 :   96.7 :        4.5
Non-Manufacturing             166.5 :  204.8         277 :    271 :       3.6
Mining                       25.4 :   29.7 :    23.2 :   21.3 :    -4.1
Energy                       12.7 :      17 :    14.8 :   13.7 :    -2.7
Construction                128.4 :  158.1 :       239 :    237 :       5.2
III - Services                  393.7 :  461.4 :   605.1 :    811 :         7.3
Non-adinnstration             315.5 :  259.3 :   347.1 :  401.6 :         5.6
Transport & telecom.           56 :      70 :       98 :      93 :      3.6
Comnarce                     86.6 :  106.3 :   118.3 :  139.3 :         3.4
Banks & Insurance             6.4 :   10.2 :    13.1 :   15.4 :         5.3
Tourism                        23 :   30.5 :        37 :      97 :      5.6
Other services              143.5 :   42.3 :    90.8 :  106.9 :    12.3
Aduinistration                 78.2 :  202.1 :       258 :    286 :       4.4
IV - Not Specified               62.3 :   59.1 :   104.8 :  123.4 :         9.6
... ........  ... ....   .. . .....   -..... ...... ..............
TOTAL                       2879.2      3307    4044.3   4589.6          2.8
1/ EmpLoyed labor force is the population (15 year and older).
Source: NatIonal Institute of Statistics



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRtAISAL REPORT
Basic Data on Employmant
Table 3
A/ Characteristics of the Uneoployed (18-59 years old)
...._.__._. ..._ ....._...... . .. .. .. _. . .. ... .. .. _.. . .
1) Level of Edication of the Unemployed
1975      1984        1989
.. .s......    ........ ......
I::fterate                          36.7%      34.7X       21.6X
Primary                             47.82      45.5X       47.5X
Secondary and Higher Education    15.5 X  19.82            30.9X
e- - - -    --------  .........._ .. ...
TOTAL                              100.02    100.02       100.02
2) Length of UnJsployment
1984      1989
,.........   .......
I to 3 months                         31X        24X
6 to 12 months                         132       102
1 year and over                       562        662
......... .._....
TOTAL                              100.02    100.02
3) Uneatoyment rate by age group
..... Mate -----       ..... Feate         . ....   ----- Total -----
Age Group                         1984       1989        1984       1989        1984       1989
....... ...........___.  . ... .... _ _____.......................... ...... ....... 
18-24                               28.82      29.62:    17.22        30.32:    25.02       29.82
25-44                                9.02      10.62:       6.3X      16.72:       8.52      11.92
45-59                                6.9 S   6.6X  :        3.7       10.3X:    6.6X          6.9X
....... .......  ._...... .......  ._.. _...... .........
TOTAL                               44.72      46.82       27.22    57.32         40.1      48.6X
8/ Unr letoynt by age (15+)
Age Group                         1984       1989
......    .......... .. _
15-17                             27.0%*:    14.42
18-24                             41.02  :    40.22
25-59                             29.02  :    42.82
60+                                3.0X* :      2.62
TOTAL                              100X         1002                Estimate



- 43 -
REPUBLIC Of TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUND             ANNEX 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT               .
Bssic Data on the Vocational Training Sector
Table 1: 1986/87 Enrollments - 1987 Graduates
,   .. ...... ................_. __....................... .
Skilled Work.         Technicians        Baccal. Techn.             Total
(Gr. 7-9)           (Or. 10-12)          (Gr. 10-13)
. ................. ..................... ....__........................  ..............................  
Enrol.   Grad.      EnroL.   Grad.       Enrol.   Grad.       Enrol.    Grad.
_   .. ..    ......... ..... ......... ... .... .................... ......................................... ... .... .__
MEN                   52,000   15,000    26.000    7,500        9,000    2,000    87.000    24,500
OFPE                                        7,500    6.500                           7.500      6,500
Other Minist.          4.750    2,300       3,850    2.100                           8,600      4,400
Private Sect.                              17,500    3.000                          17.500      3.000
TOTAL                 56,750   17.300    54,850   19,100        9.000    2,000   120.600    38,400
Table 2: Training organized by Specialized Ministries: 1986/87 Enrollments
Technicians         Skilled Workers        Total
... . ............................... ...... ........... ....... .................... ...   _.......
-  Ministry of Agriculture                    600               2,000                2,600
- Ministry of Social Affairs
nOffice National de l'Artisanat"                           2,100                2.100
-  Ministry of Youth and Sports                                   600                  600
-  Ministry of Health                      2,000                                     2,000
- Ministry of Tourism
uOffice Nationale du Tourisme"          900                                       900
-  Ministry of Comnunications                 150                   50                 200
* Ministry of Transportation
uEcole de la Marine Marchanden           50                                        50
- Ministry of Fisheries
"Office de La Peche"                    150                                       150
~~~~~~~~. . ...... ... .... ..... ......... __.....................................
TOTAL                                   3.850                4,750                8.600
Table 3: Number of Apprentices by Sector in 1986/87
Number of           X Apprent. to L- or
Sector               Labor Force         Apprentices                  Force
_________......................._. . ... ..............................
Industry            345,100               25 890                            7.5
Construction        233m900                17,540                           7.5
Services              77.600                5,370                           6.9
Commerce              26,000                5.950                          22.9
Agriculture          174,100               13,000                            7.5
(Wage uorkers)
_ _ ...______. ......6...........7. .      50                         7.9
856,700               67,750                            7.9



- 45 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA          AUNNEX S
ENPLOYENT AND TRAINING FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LIST OF SUB-PROJECTS TESTED
I            I                                      INUSMER OF    I   MUT    I
IGONERNORATES ISU8-PROJECT DESCRIPTION              IPARTICIPANTS I   T.D.      I
IBEN AROUS   I1) Training in garment stitching      I             I             I
I            1 (3 mnths)                            I          45        6.sm   |
12) Training in shoe making
j (6 months)                                     151        5.850
13) Training in shoe stitching
1 (3 months, 4 groups)                I          681      30.40
INMNASTIR    14) Training In garment stitching                    I I           I
I            1  6 months (Nonastir, Bembla, Jau-ml)e          100   |   39,000 |
15) Training of hotel industry        |I                          I
1  2 months In Nonastir               I         100 I      18,300
16) Training of greenhouse care takers |            |
I7 months in ouardanine               I          30        16,250|
17) Training of fisherman             I             I             I
I            1  12 months                   |                  35|   28,050|
18) Training of marine carpenters     I  | |
I            I (12 months)                   |                 201       16.200|
| 19) Training In boat mechanics,   |                 | |
I            I  electricity, soldering (12 months)             10 I      8.400 |
ISFAX        110) Training in plaster sculpturing
I            I  to be placed inrak t r 
I            I  3 months, 3 promwtions              I         601       19.400|
11) Training in shoe stitching
3 months                                      1S1     40,400
ISOUsSE      112) Training in shoe stitching        I             I             |
I            1  3 months, 4 prmotJons               1         450 1    144,200
1------------- I---------------------------I-----------------------------..................-------------..........-----------1---------
ISILIANA     113) Training in shoe stitching        I             |             |
I            1  3 onths                                        60     40,200|
-- - - - - -   I- - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -  -- - - - - -  _  -------------1 ............... 
ITOTAL       I                                      I        1008 1    415425 |
I-  -                            I                  I                           I
I .I...._..I.................................... __..._ ___. 



- 47 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA                           ANNEX 6
ENPLOYNENT AND TRAINING FUND                        ,
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OPFE Investment and Recurrent Budgets
(Current Dinars '000)
1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987     1988      1989
INVESTNENT BUDGET                                3700     2700      2172     1707               191
RECURRENt BWGET
* Salaries                                      6,425    7,002    7,758    8,310    9,126   14,483
* Non-salary                                    3,799    4,079    3,672    3,530    3,574    4,460
...-    ----     ....      ....     ...   .  ........ ... ......... .._
TOTAL                                          10,224   11,081   11,430   11,840   12,700   18,943
, ..... ........... .. ............. ......... .......... ..................... ................... ......... .................. .........
TFP a/
Total Amount                  NA       MA       NA       10,348   11,696   12,402
TFP paid by enterprises
benefitting from
tax rebate                   4,257    5,273    6,565    6,943    7,720    7,368    7,536
Tax Rebate Amsout             1,893    2,135    2,355    2,210    2,348    2,222    3,116
a/ Vocational Training Tax



- 49 -
SCHEDULE I
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING FUD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1991        199          1993            TOTAL              TOTAL
Investment Costs                  TD 000       TD 000      TD 000             TD 000            USS 000
... ......,,,.........
Multiservice Center
Civil Works                        80            0           0                 80                 85
Equipment                           0          125           0                125                132
Experts (32 staff-months)         100          110          110               320                339
.         Fellowships (40 months)             40          40           40                120                127
Subtotal                          220          275         150                645                684
Orientation
Civil Works                       125            0           0                125                132
Equipment                           0          625           0                625                662
Experts (2 staff-months)            0           20           0                 20                 21
Fellowships (3 months)              0            9           0                  9                 10
Subtotal                          125          654           0                779                826
Labor Market Nonitoring
Equipment                           0           94           0                 94                100
Experts (6 staff-months)           20           20          20                 60                 64
Feltlowships (10 months)            3           12          15                 30                 32
Sub-total                          23          126          35                184                195
Project Mgt & Eval
Regional level
Equipment                        176            0           0                176                187
Small equipment                   24            0           0                 24                 25
Central level                                                                                       0
Equipment                         34            0           0                 34                 36
Smtl equipment                     6            0                              6                  6
Experts (6 staff-months)          10           40           10                60                 64
Fellowships (8 months)             8            8           8                 24                 25
Sub-total                         258           48           18               324                343
Total mryv. Costs                    626         1103          203              1932               2048
for Inst. Dev.
of which:
Civil Uorks                       205            0           0                205                217
Equip. & ?Aaall eq                240          844           0               1084               1149
Experts (16 staff-months)         130          190         140                460                488
Felloushfps (61 months)            51           69          63                183                194
Recurrent Costs: Project Not & Eval.
,..... ................... .........
Regional level
Salaries                          36           36          36                108                114
Other                              8            8           8                 24                 25
Central level
Other op. costs                   10           10           10                30                 32
Seminars                          20           20          20                 60                 64
Total recurrent costs                 74           74           74               222                235
Total Inst. Dev.                     700         1177          277              2154               2283



8CHEDUL II
FEPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EMPLOTENT AM D  PRAINING FUND LOAN
STAFF APPRA18AL REPORT
Imulementation Schedule
CY        91       |      92       ||                    94
Component                       FY      91         92              93               94
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Multiservice Center
Civil works                              XXXXXXX XYXXXX
Equipuent                                                XYXXK  KQ=
Experts                                  XYXKOO  DXXXX =OOccC XXXXXX
Fellowships                              XYXXXXX = XX                  CKKX  XXXXXXX
Orientation                                                                                                                             i
Civil works                              XXXXXXX       =        XYX                                                                     _
Equipnet                                                 X x  MXDOM
Experts                                                  xYYYy XKKZ3KCKX
Fellowships                                               xxKXaXOOC
Labor Mbrket Monitorinx
Equipment                                                xxYXX XXXXXX
Experts                                 XXXXXYXO       =        XX XX               XX
Fellowships                              X2KO                                    XXX   X
Manasement and evaluation of Project
Equipment                               XXKKKX  XXXX
Experts                                 XIOO=  XXXXKKX           xx m           XKDx
Fellowships                             XXXXXXX        =       X       =         XKX
Recurrent costs                          XXX =                          XXX30X
ETF
Training contracts                      XXXXXX =000000=                         XXXXX
Stipends and allowmnces                  _ XXXXXX =                             XXXXY
Materials and Consumables                XK =                       ---------        X
ProJect Completion - December 31, 1993
Closing Date - June 30. 1994



- 53 -
SCHEDULE III
Employment and Training Fund
Staff Appraisal Report
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
==8#SA8S=tnRIS________                                                               MM-gB_
I B R D
Disbursements              Disbursement
Fiscat Year         Ouarter                 Quarter          Cumulative            Profile
----- USS Nillions ......                X
g_________D8tU  =8
FY91
First                        0.0                 0.0                0.0
Second                       0.0                 0.0                0.0
Third                        0.6                 0.6                5.0
Fourth                       0.6                 1.2               10.0
FY92
First                        0.6                 1.8               15.0
Second                       0.6                 2.4               20.0
Third                        1.2                 3.6               30.0
Fourth                       1.2                 4.8              40.0
FY93
First                        1.3                 6.1               50.8
Second                       1.3                 7.4               61.7
Third                        1.2                 8.6              7t.7
Fourth                       1.2                 9.8               81.?
FY94
First                        1.1                10.9              90.8
Second                       1.1                12.0              100.0
Third                        0.0                 0.0                0.0
Fourth                       0.0                 0.0                0.0
----SS8.uuun.nug.zEnua.u.nnaan_n



ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF OFPE                                                                        Chart r
AT THE CENTRAL LEVEL
U
Dir ction
DA               --D
Direction               Direction               Direction bqtipenot                            Direction deo laDiret.   de                           Direction de 10
oimigtr tiv0      rifenei6re              at travu                                       coop#tetAo                  1 inform tim               oeattleUqna
l             .            ~          ~ ~~I DF                                       DM              .               ,                                  X        .
Ott  do  v6soou         Dir. do la                 oil. de la onatton                          Di. do sr3oXou                inotitut do               Cletro de copoonl ot
I                         on ontiepriso et de                          t pro Cts  o                          I rootion "I
Iloziogtotian           inatittationno110          quoifiotion de                               d6valoWomeat                 cadre ototio
qualiticatic" ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     pmtc
|hwoou ustioml do    |                                                                                                                    aEid    r 
UtIEC                                                           DEL Ui                                                                       do la Ldt I
dore" totio  do         dv                     | Centref;ooiotm    dou |                     o ppzouiOtlUX         d     o |                          t%oi
1 'spilo



- 57 -
ETF                                                  Chart II
Structure and Organisatlon
Managegslert
Ministry of Emloymet
and Vocational Sranis_t
(President)
Representative of the Miniter/
of the Interior                           IET? National
Representative of the Minis                                                             too"t itt
Representative of the Minister/_
of Economy and rinance /                                                                        a _t
Representative of tho   DtR
Office of Vocationl Training
and Employment
of             se crtriat          |
Quarterly Reportr and
exceptional proe<dures
Governor (President)
Representatives of the                3
productive sac torx             1Coordination
Representatives of the                      Cottee
relevant technical Ministries
Representatives of the  PORE ReionaL
OFPZ Regional Represntativ           D5lea8t                                        IL
Seretariat
FSub-.aj                           .



