Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                  E Copy
Report No. P-3039-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
ALCOHOL AND BIOMASS ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980       April 15, 1981
Currency Unit  =   Cruzeiro (Cr$)        Cr$
US$1                Cr$53.25             Cr$79.46
Cr$l                US$0.019             US$0.013
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDE            Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico
(National Development Bank)
CDI             Conselho de Desenvolvimento Industrial
(Industrial Development Council)
CENAL           Comissao Executiva Nacional do Alcool
(Executive Secretariat of the National Alcohol Commission)
CMN             Conselho Monetario Nacional
(National Monetary Council)
CNAL            Conselho Nacional do Alcool
(National Alcohol Commission)
CNP             Conselho Nacional de Petroleo
(National Petroleum Council)
EMBRAPA         Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Enterprise for Agricultural Research)
EMBRATER        Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extencao Rural
(Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension)
FINEP           Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos
(Financing Agency for Preinvestment Studies and Basic
and Applied Research)
IAA             Instituto da Acucar e do Alcool
(Institute of Sugar and Alcohol)
MIC             Ministerio da Industria e do Comercio
(Ministry of Industry and Commerce)
ORTN            Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Indexed National Treasury Bonds)
PETROBRAS       Petroleo Brasileiro, S.A.
(State Petroleum Company)
PROALCOOL       Programa Nacional do Alcool
(National Alcohol Program)
STI             Secretaria de Tecnologia Industrial
(Secretariat of Industrial Technology)
bpd             barrels per day
lpd             liters per day
tpe            metric tons of petroleum equivalent
tpy            metric tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)           =  2.47105 Acres
1 Liter                  =  0.2642 U.S. Gallon
1 Metric Ton (t)         =  1,000 Kilograms (kg)
or 2,204.6 pounds
1 Barrel                 =  159 liters (by volume)
1 Vol. of Gasoline       =  0.899 Vol. of Crude Oil
(Thermal equivalent)
1 Vol. of Anhydrous      =  1 Vol. of Gasoline
Alcohol                    (as Gasohol fuel)
1 Vol. of Hydrous        =  0.86 Vol. of Gasoline
Alcohol                    (as Alcohol fuel)
NOTE: The terms alcohol and ethanol are used interchangeably
in this report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$50.00)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling price as of June 30, 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
ALCOHOL AND BIOMASS ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$250 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of
3 years, at 9.6% interest per annum.
Beneficiaries:       (i) Under the Production Component:  Banco Central
do Brasil, participating national and regional banks,
and sponsors from the private sector of alcohol
production subprojects; and (ii) under the Technology
Development Component: Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos
(FINEP), and Secretaria de Tecnologia Industrial (STI),
and sponsors from the private and public sectors of
biomass energy research and technology development.
Relending Terms:    As established from time to time for PROALCOOL
(see para. 72). The Borrower will bear the exchange
risk.
Project
Description:         The project is a three year (1981-83) time slice of the
Brazilian Government's 1981-85 National Alcohol Program
(PROALCOOL) to increase annual alcohol production in
Brazil to about 10.7 billion liters by the end of 1985,
equivalent to 148,000 barrels per day of petroleum. Of
this production, 9.2 billion liters would be used to
substitute for 45% of projected 1985 gasoline consumption,
and the remainder would be used for chemical feedstocks.
The project consists of three components:
(a)  a Production Component comprising about 250 alcohol
units (distilleries and related agricultural facil-
ities) expected to be approved by the Brazilian
Government during 1981-83 and coming on-stream during
1983-85. These units would provide additional
production capacity of about 5.6 billion liters, of
which 95% is expected to be sugarcane-based and
5% cassava-based. This component would also include
units to demonstrate the feasibility of new technology,
such as alcohol production from wood;
(b)  a Technology Development Component to support basic
and applied agricultural and industrial research
related to production and use of biomass energy;



- ii -
(c)  a Monitoring and Evaluation System to analyze the
impact of the Alcohol Program on the agricultural,
transport and industrial sectors, rural employment,
and the environment, in order to identify any needed
corrective measures and facilitate planning for
future development of the program.
Risks:          A principal risk is the virtual dependency on one crop, sugar-
cane, for 95% of the alcohol supply at a time when Brazil's
automobile market is adapting itself to greater utilization
of alcohol. A crop failure in one season could be severely
disruptive. To reduce this risk, in the short-term, the
government is encouraging the establishment of regional storage
facilities; in the medium to long-term, it is seeking to utilize
alternative crops as feedstock and to diversify areas of pro-
duction. There is also the risk that increased sugarcane
production associated with the program could have a negative
impact on food crop production and rural employment in specific
areas. There are also associated environmental risks, such
as river pollution through improper disposal of effluents from
the distilleries. These potential problems will be monitored
and assessed under the monitoring and evaluation system included
in the project in order to develop corrective and preventive
measures. The Technology Development Component of the project
will support the development of alternative crops as feedstock
utilizing lower quality agricultural land, improved processing
and pollution control technology, diversification of the
geographical base of alcohol production and increased parti-
cipation of small farmers.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                            ------In US$ million -----    % of
Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Cost
Production Component
Additional Facilities:
to be approved in 1981                416        239       655      20.7
to be approved in 1982                628        360        988     31.3
to be approved in 1983                869       499      1,368      43.3
Sub-total                     1,913      1,098      3,011      95.3
Technology Development Component            75         75        150       4.7
Monitoring and Evaluation System              1         -          1        -
Base Cost                                1,989      1,173      3,162    100.0
Physical Contingencies                     123         68        191       6.0
Price Escalation                           462        272        734      23.2
Working Capital                            942        -          942      29.8
Total Capital Cost                     3,516      1,513      5,029    159.0
Interest During Construction                -          86         86       2.7
Total Financing Required                 3,516      1,599      5,115    161.7
Financing Plan:                             US$ Million Equivalent
% of
Local    Foreign    Total    Total
I. Equity
Alcohol Project Investors        764                   764      14.9
II  Long-Term Funds
Energy Mobilization Fund       1,032                 1,032      20.1
Net Revenue to Government
from Alcohol sales             778      1,099 1/  1,877       36.7
Proposed IBRD Loan                          250        250       4.9
Private Cofinancing                         250        250       4.9
Sub-total                  1,810      1,559      3,409     66.6
III. Short-Term Borrowings                  942                   942      18.4
Total                      3,516      1,559     5,115    100.0
1/   This amount of foreign costs will be covered by purchases of foreign
exchange from Brazil's holdings with cruzeiros generated by the
Government's alcohol sales.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:                       US$ Million Equivalent
Bank FY              1982      1983    1984
Annual                30        105      115
Cumulative            30        135      250
Rate of Return:            17-21% economic rate of return for sugarcane-based
facilities; and 10-16% economic rate of return for
cassava-based facilities (under assumptions set
forth in paras. 81-83).
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 3214a-BR, dated April 22, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMIIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN ALCOHOL AND BIOMASS ENERGY DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$250 million to
help finance Brazil's 1981-85 program for alcohol and biomass energy develop-
ment. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace
with interest at 9.6% per annum. US$219 million of the proposed loan would
be made available to the Central Bank of Brazil to help finance loans extended
to approved alcohol production subprojects under PROALCOOL through partici-
pating national and regional banks. US$30 million would be made available, in
equal shares, to STI (the Secretariat of Industrial Technology) and FINEP
(Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos) to finance subprojects for technology
development. The remaining US$1 million would be used to finance consultants
to assist CENAL (the Executive Secretariat of the National Alcohol Commission)
to establish a monitoring and evaluation system.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that visited Brazil in March 1980 and was updated
in August 1980. The mission's report will be distributed shortly.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with accelerating inflation and a
deteriorating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
Government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and a better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic growth.
with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of about 9% and
6% per year, respectively. During the 1967-1973 period, growth was achieved
with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance, despite
considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual decline
in the rate of domestic inflation. Given the heavy dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on petroleum, however, over 80% of which was
imported, the quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973 resulted in a sharp



deterioration in the nation's terms of trade. Excess aggregate demand and a
succession of bad harvests have, along with increased energy costs, resulted
in increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and the reacceleration of
domestic inflation.
5.        Coping with these short-term constraints while responding to
continuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment
and simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the past
seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining rapid
growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to reduce
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were successfully
contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports, particularly of
manufactures, increased import barriers, accelerated import substitution, and
heavy external borrowing, including large additions to international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil's dependence on imported petro-
leum, however, necessarily involves a long gestation period. Meanwhile, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports and intensification
of domestic inflationary pressures have been increasing the economy's vulner-
ability to further external shock. That vulnerability is being severely
tested by the additional sharp increases in petroleum prices and international
interest rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
suffered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost but showed
some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP growth was
6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in
a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the end of year, the
highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit in
1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or
US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to
which more than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising
gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion
in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9
billion to US$9.7 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0 billion,



- 3 -
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 6 months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$51 billion, or 25% of GDP.
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were followed
by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April 1980. The
most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments,
imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the introduction of a programmed
phase-out of most tax earmarking; a modification of administered credit programs
intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of direct controls on credit
expansion by the private banking system; and the establishment of ceilings on
monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment during 1980 and the first
half of 1981 in an effort to dampen inflationary expectations.
11.        Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
economic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest and
continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.        On the external side, preliminary estimates are that exports grew by
32% in 1980 as a consequence of the excellent harvest and continued expansion
of manufactured exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports
expanded almost as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth
of the economy, higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory
accumulation early in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import
controls. Despite the rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume
of petroleum imports fell from 1,003 thousand b/d in 1979 to 929 thousand b/d
in 1980 as a result of conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution.
Nevertheless, the trade deficit for the year totaled an estimated US$2.8 bil-
lion. External borrowing totaled about US$15 billion (including an estimated
US$2-3 billion of short-term borrowing), and reserves were drawn down by an
additional US$3.5 billion, falling to about $6.9 billion 1/ by the end of the
year. Although Brazil was able to obtain the required US$5-6 billion net
external financing, loan terms were tighter. Total medium- and long-term
external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was about US$56 billion.
13.        A number of important policy measures have been announced for 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been further tightened, and monetary
expansion is targeted at 50-60%. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction will be brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate will again be fully
adjusted for the differential between domestic and international inflation.
1/   Including gold and dollar valuation adjustments.



- 4 -
Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls, interest rates
on official credits have been raised, and price controls are being progressively
relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions tax on imports from
15 to 25% will further discourage imports. Although the net impact of these
measures may be some short-term increase in inflation, the overall result
should be greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown of economic
activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.
Poverty Programs
14.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the Northeast
region have been protected from the present tight fiscal and monetary restraints.
Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and extended to the
rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered by the
social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has been
established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system, rural
households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to receive a
monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is almost twice
the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The urban popula-
tion over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million loans have
been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964. A sites and
services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more
directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack the
poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
15.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated,
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports costing an estimated US$10.2 billion
(nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to US$700
million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and balance-of-
payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation of economic
decision makers.
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



- 5 -
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. The December 1979 devaluation of
the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Although public investments may be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, priority attention will
continue to be given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture
and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per year in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit after 1980 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1983. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85 period
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1983 declining steadily thereafter.
As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is projected to fall
steadily from its peak of 5.6% in 1980. This projection assumes that imports
grow at a moderate pace through 1985, reflecting continued import substitution,
as well as a strengthening of the overall domestic savings effort. A trade
surplus would then appear beginning in 1982.
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11-12 billion in 1981 and 1982, and to decline progressively thereafter
to about US$5 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about $19
billion this year and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over the five-year
period, with 75-85% obtained as financial credits from private lenders.
Consequently the net debt service ratio 1/ would decline from about 61% in
1980 to about 43% in 1985.
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



- 6 -
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left
the economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The Govern-
ment recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports, despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By March 31, 1981 the Bank had made 102 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$5,477 million (net of cancellations), of which 51 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, and US$318 million in FY80. Disbursements for
the first half of FY81 amounted to US$185 million. They are expected to
increase further during the next few years. The total undisbursed amount
as of March 31, 1981 was US$2,621.4 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totalling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totalling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totalling US$695 million were made. So far in FY81,
five loans totalling US$505 million have been approved -- US$125 million for
a second power transmission project of ELETROSUL, US$56 million for a second
rural development project in Ceara, US$54 million for an electric power sys-
tem coordination project, US$90 million for a third urban transport project,
and US$180 million for a Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project.



-7-
Work is relatively advanced on a rural development project in Piaui, a second
agricultural research project, an integrated regional development program in
the northwest, and a multi-state power distribution project.
24.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1979 amounted to US$51.0 billion, and is estimated
to have been US$56 billion at the end of 1980. At the end of 1979, the Bank
held 3.6% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1979 was
2.0%. In 1980, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated to
have risen slightly to 3.8% while its share in total debt service fell to
about 1.9%.
25.       As of March 31, 1981 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$544.5
million, of which US$345.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of the
balance of US$198.9 million, US$148.2 million represent loans and US$50.7
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31, 1981 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective is to ease the
foreign exchange constraint on development, a constraint that has become more
critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects
designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to
substitute domestic production for imports. As a result of the deterioration
in Brazil's terms of trade and balance of payments since the 1974 energy
crisis, this objective has been in the forefront of the government's economic
policy. Brazil's fuel alcohol program, which by 1985 would produce alcohol
sufficient to substitute for 45% of projected gasoline consumption, directly
addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum imports and thus helps ease
a principal drain on the country's foreign exchange resources. The Bank's
lending in the electric power sector, based primarily on hydroelectric power,
also contributes to lessening Brazil's dependence on petroleum. Bank support
of fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute
imports with large-scale efficient domestic production. Much of the Bank-
assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways --
is designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of exports. Support
of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of
a traditional import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due
to the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its
internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved through the VALESUL
aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources for
power and ample bauxite reserves.
27.       Another important lending objective in Brazil is to help the Govern-
ment to identify and develop projects that will increase the productivity and
incomes of the lowest income segments of the population, to broaden the
economic opportunities open to those groups and to improve their living
conditions. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects, for urban transport
in several major cities, for sites and services and low-cost housing, for
medium-sized cities development, and for pollution control in Greater Sao
Paulo, are assisting to improve the living conditions of the urban population,



- 8 -
particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups
in urban areas are in preparation, including an integrated urban development
project in Recife, an urban health project, and additional water supply
and sewerage projects. Previous loans for nutrition research and development,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, rural education in the
northeast, and for integrated rural development in the states of Rio Grande do
Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia, Sergipe and Pernambuco were
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects
designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation,
including several integrated rural development projects in the northeast, an
integrated regional development program in the northwest and a second agricul-
tural research project.
28.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. Loans for electric power,
rural development, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural
research and extension, water supply and sewerage and urban development
all have important institution-building objectives. The proposed project
includes development of a monitoring capability and evaluation system to
enable the government to analyze the impact of the National Alcohol Program,
develop policy options and plan the future direction of the program.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In
some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Eleven co-financing operations
for more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation, including about
US$110 million for the CEEE power distribution project (Loan No. 1824-BR),
about US$50 million for the Second Minas Gerais Rural Development Project
(Loan No. 1877-BR), and about US$65 million for the ELETROSUL Second Power
Transmission Project (Loan No. 1895-BR). The proposed loan would help to
mobilize additional external financing under private cofinancing arrange-
ments in an amount equivalent to at least US$250 million (see para. 70).
PART III - THE SECTOR
30.       Brazil's energy consumption is dominated by petroleum products
which account for about 42% of total energy consumption. Yet about 85%
(roughly 1 million barrels per day) of petroleum consumed is imported.



- 9 -
The share of domestic oil production, as a percentage of total petroleum
supply, in fact, has fallen from about 33% in 1971 to 15% in 1979. The cost
of petroleum imports in 1979 was about $7 billion, equivalent to roughly 45%
of total export revenue, and in 1980 the cost of petroleum imports surged
to about $10.2 billion, or 50% of the country's estimated export earnings.
As noted above, the large and growing cost of oil imports is a major cause
of Brazil's current balance of payments difficulties.
Energy Strategy
31.        To restrict petroleum imports, Brazil has instituted a comprehen-
sive energy strategy to increase domestic crude oil production, promote
conservation and substitute as far as possible with alternative domestic
energy supplies all major components of the imported petroleum barrel.
Through the state petroleum company, PETROBRAS, and risk-sharing contracts
with the major foreign oil companies, the Brazilian government is making
a major effort to stabilize declining production from current fields and to
find and develop new domestic oil reserves, both onshore and offshore. It is
expected to increase domestic crude oil production from 171,000 bpd in 1979 to
320,000 bpd in 1985. This increase would come primarily from the Campos
Basin, a major offshore field which will commence large-scale production in
1984.
32.        Brazil's conservation strategy includes public policies to develop
and encourage energy efficiency in industry and to change public consumption
patterns through high petroleum product prices, speed limits and incentives to
use public transportation.
33.        As part of its substitution strategy, the country plans to increase
coal production from a current 4.5 million tons per year (tpy) of usable coal
to 12 million tpy by 1985, for substitution of fuel oil equivalent to 69,400
bpd of petroleum. This target may not be achieved, however, as the coal
program has experienced some delays in execution. Increased fuelwood and
charcoal production -- from 23 million tons of petroleum equivalent (tpe)
in 1979 to 29 million tpe by 1985 -- is also planned, although again these
production targets may not be attainable. A third element of the substitution
strategy is to increase rapidly the country's installed hydroelectric capacity.
Hydroelectric power, which today accounts for about 26% of total energy
utilization, is expected to account for 36-38% of energy utilization by 1985.
The coal, charcoal and hydroelectric power programs are all aimed at substitu-
ting fuel oil.
34.        The final element in Brazil's substitution strategy is the fuel alcohol
program, which is expected to increase annual ethanol (alcohol) production
from sugarcane and cassava from 3.4 billion liters in 1980 to 10.7 billion
liters by 1985, equivalent to 148,000 bpd of petroleum. Of this production,
9.2 billion liters would be used as automotive fuel to meet about 45% of
projected gasoline consumption by 1985 or roughly 5% of forecast national
energy requirements. The remainder would serve as chemical feedstock.
Refinery modifications would also be undertaken to reduce gasoline production
and increase needed diesel oil production from the same level of crude oil
supplies, as diesel oil will be largely unaffected by the current substitution
effort. Since refinery modifications take time, however, it is likely that
Brazil will export some quantities of naphtha and gasoline in the short run.



- 10 -
Ethanol Production
35.       Ethanol is an organic chemical, traditionally used as a solvent,
in medicine and for drinking purposes. Ethanol can also be used as automobile
fuel, either as gasohol, in which case anhydrous (99.8% purity) ethanol is
mixed with gasoline up to a 20%o ratio, or as straight or.hydrous alcohol
(94% alcohol plus 6% water) used in all-alcohol engines. 1/
36.       Ethanol can be produced from three types of biomass raw materials:
(a) sugar-bearing materials (such as sugarcane, sweet sorghum etc.) which
contain carbohydrates in sugar form; (b) starches (such as cassava, corn,
babassu, potatoes etc.) which contain carbohydrates in starch form; and
(c) celluloses (such as wood, agricultural residues etc.) whose carbohydrate
structure is more complex. The main attraction of sugar-bearing raw materials
for alcohol production lies in the fact that their carbohydrate content is
already in simpler sugar form which then requires only two processing steps:
fermentation into ethanol and separation of ethanol from water and other
fermentation products by distillation. They also produce their own source of
fuel in the form of bagasse. While the basic technology for ethanol production
from sugar and starch is well known, there are no demonstrated processes for
production from celluloses available on a commercial scale, although consider-
able development work is now underway in Brazil and elsewhere.
Fuel Alcohol Market
37.        Ethanol from sugarcane has been used as a gasoline additive in
Brazil for more than 40 years, its blend with gasoline ranging between 1-6%
through the mid-1970's, depending largely on availability. Between 1970-75,
domestic alcohol production fluctuated around 600 million lpd (liters per day),
corresponding to an average distillery operating rate of only 48%, as the
Institute of Sugar and Alcohol (IAA) opted to maximize sugar exports, particu-
larly during periods of high international sugar prices. With the subsequent
drop in sugar prices, the limitations imposed by Brazil's quota under the
International Sugar Agreement and the sharp rise in petroleum prices, Brazil
created the National Alcohol Program (PROALCOOL) to increase alcohol production
to substitute for automotive fuel. Production since then has increased sharply;
annual alcohol production in 1980 was 3.4 billion liters, and is estimated to
have reached 4.1 billion liters in the crop season ending March 1981. These
increases in alcohol production were achieved through fuller utilization of
existing production capacity and through the increasing number of alcohol
distilleries set up under PROALCOOL after 1975.
38.       Alcohol has been accepted as a satisfactory automotive fuel by
Brazilian consumers. The average alcohol gasoline blend in 1980 was about
19%; 6% of the 1980 production was consumed as straight automotive fuel by
all-alcohol cars. Of the 1985 production which would substitute for gaso-
line, 2.7 billion liters or 29% would be produced as anhydrous alcohol and
would be blended with gasoline at a concentration of up to 20%. The remaining
71% (6.5 bilion liters) would be produced as straight or hydrous alcohol
1/   Technical aspects concerning substitution of ethanol for automobile
fuel are discussed in the report "Alcohol Production from Biomass:
Potential and Prospects in the Developing Countries" (Report No. 3021,
dated June 4, 1980).



- 11 -
and used as fuel in cars with all-alcohol engines. Future emphasis will be
on straight alcohol with the objective of meeting all of Brazil's future
incremental gasoline demand. The share of gasoline in total automotive fuel
will, therefore, progressively decrease. Projected automotive fuel require-
ments in 1985 of 20.4 billion liters are expected to be met with 11.3 billion
liters of gasoline (55%), 6.5 billion liters of hydrous alcohol (32%) and 2.7
billion liters of anhydrous alcohol in gasohol (13%).
39.       The petroleum industry is expected to have no major difficulty in
achieving a satisfactory alcohol distribution system for both anhydrous and
hydrous alcohol by 1985. In addition, Brazil's automobile manufacturing
industry has undertaken a major effort to expand the production of all alcohol-
powered cars. Production of all-alcohol cars is estimated at 250,000 in 1980
and is projected to increase to 450-500,000 by 1983 to keep pace with the
availability of hydrous alcohol. In addition to the production of new cars,
the Alcohol Program is encouraging the conversion of existing gasoline/gasohol
cars to use hydrous alcohol. A conversion rate of about 110,000 cars/year is
estimated for 1981. By 1985, all-alcohol vehicles could number up to 2.5 mil-
lion, or 25% of the projected 1985 vehicle population.
Diesel Oil Substitution
40.       Since crude oil imports can be reduced significantly only by
substituting all major petroleum fractions, efforts to find economic substi-
tutes for diesel oil are of high priority. Automobile manufacturers in
Brazil are currently evaluating the use of vegetable oils as diesel engine
fuel. Although vegetable oils possess heating value and diesel index levels
comparable to normal diesel oil, they contain unsaturated compounds which
cause polymer and coke formation in engines; therefore, their use requires
improvements in fuel injection equipment and pretreatment of the oils by
hydrogenation. The economic cost of production of vegetable oils must also be
investigated along with its impact on agriculture if large scale diesel
substitution is undertaken, since increased production of vegetable oils in
the future could seriously compete for prime agricultural land used for food
and export crops and sugarcane.
Bank's Participation in the Energy Sector
41.       The Bank's involvement in Brazil's energy development has up to now
been limited principally to the electric power sector, for which loans totaling
nearly US$1.7 billion have been made over a period of more than 30 years.
While we expect to continue our support for the electric power sector on a
selective basis, future Bank lending will emphasize support of other areas
important to Brazil's energy substitution and conservation strategy. In
this connection, aside from the proposed loan, the Bank is examining possible
loans for reforestation for charcoal and fuelwood production, coal gasification,
natural gas pipelines, oil shale development and energy saving programs for
industry. Other areas which the Bank may support in the future include
petroleum and coal exploration and development. Work is also well advanced on
an energy sector study which will form the basis for our policy dialogue with
the Brazilian Government on the future direction of its energy program, and
which we expect to distribute to the Executive Directors in the near future.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT
42.       The project, which would consist of a three-year time slice of
Brazil's 1981-85 National Alcohol Program, was prepared by the Secretariat
of the National Alcohol Commission (CENAL) with the assistance of Bank staff
and was appraised by a mission that visited Brazil in July 1980. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report on the Brazil Alcohol and Biomass Energy
Development Project," No. 3214a-BR, dated April 22, 1981, is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 16 to 25, 1981. The Brazilian delegation to the negotiations was
led by Mr. Oswaldo Moreira do Souza of the federal Secretariat of Planning
and included Mr. Marcos de Lima Fernandes, Executive Secretary of CENAL,
Mr. Lourival Carmo Monaco of STI, Mr. Jose Walder Nogueira of the Banco
Central, Mr. Paulo Gustavo Migon of FINEP and Ms. Joailce Maria Monte de
Azevedo, Attorney, Ministry of Finance. A supplemental project data sheet,
including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions,
is presented in Annex III.
PROALCOOL
43.       The objectives of PROALCOOL are (i) to promote investment in distiller-
ies and related agricultural production to meet the 1985 alcohol production
target of 10.7 billion liters; and (ii) to support research for technology
development, particularly in developing alternative biomass energy sources.
The program includes the construction of demonstration plants to commercialize
the use of biomass feedstocks other than sugar and related new processing
technologies.
44.       Management.  The government body responsible for the overall coor-
dination and policy direction of PROALCOOL is the National Alcohol Commission
(CNAL), comprising the Minister of Industry and Commerce (Chairman), the
Secretaries-General of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, Interior,
Labor, Mines and Energy and Planning, the Deputy Chief of Technology of the
Armed Forces General Staff and representatives from the private sector (in
agriculture, commerce and industry). It operates through the Executive
Secretariat of the National Alcohol Commission (CENAL), which has responsi-
bility for planning, regulation, approval for financing and monitoring of
alcohol production projects. CENAL is comprised of representatives of the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MIC), the National Petroleum Council (CNP),
the Institute of Alcohol and Sugar (IAA), the Secretariat of Industrial
Technology (STI) and the Industrial Development Council (CDI) -- agencies that
have day to day responsibility for the implementation of PROALCOOL. CENAL
presently has a professional staff of about 20, drawn mostly from MIC. The
increasing complexity in implementing PROALCOOL, however, indicates that CENAL
will soon need to broaden its staff, particularly to bring in the expertise
necessary to review policy options relating to the future direction of the
program (para. 63).
45.       Production Facilities.  During 1981-85, PROALCOOL expects to finance
the construction of approximately 350 distilleries along with associated
agricultural development (excluding land purchase), in order to meet the 1985



- 13 -
alcohol production target of 10.7 billion liters and to develop the capacity
for a tentative production target of 13.2 billion liters by 1987. The invest-
ment in alcohol facilities is being undertaken by the private sector. The
Government participates through provision of long-term loans, its appraisal/
approval system, pricing policy, guarantee of production offtake and coordina-
tion activities. In appraising projects, CENAL relies heavily on the expertise
of its member agencies. The IAA, for example, does the technical evaluation
of sugarcane-based alcohol projects. The technical evaluation of non-sugarcane
based projects is done by STI, a unit under the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce with responsibility for promoting the development of industrial
technology in Brazil. The Ministry of Agriculture, through its extension
services agency (EMBRATER), is responsible for ensuring that expansion of
sugarcane plantations for alcohol production does not displace food crops in
accordance with existing government guidelines. The state governments concerned,
through their secretariats for agriculture or industry and commerce, also
review the agricultural aspects, while the environmental aspects are reviewed
by the federal and state environmental agencies.
46.        The financial appraisal, financing and supervision of alcohol
projects are the responsibility of financial agents (national and regional
banks), whose loans are refinanced by the Central Bank from funds earmarked
for the Alcohol Program. The two principal financial agents are Banco do
Brasil and the National Development Bank (BNDE). After receiving CENAL's
project approval and authorization for financing, the participating bank
disburses funds to the investor against invoices. It then submits the project
proposal, a summary of the financial appraisal and disbursement documentation
to the Central Bank for reimbursement. The onlending terms are described in
para. 72 below.
47.       Technology Development.  PROALCOOL includes support of technology
development to (i) improve sugarcane and cassava-based processing technolo-
gies and develop wood or cellulose-based technologies; (ii) improve agri-
cultural yields, particularly of crops complementary or alternative to sugar-
cane, such as cassava and sweet sorghum; (iii) investigate vegetable oils
as substitutes for diesel; and (iv) develop alternative biomass energy forms
such as charcoal, bagasse and agricultural wastes. The purpose of this
research effort is to improve existing and develop new agricultural and
industrial technologies to diversify the geographic and raw material base
of alcohol production and to reduce production and processing costs, particu-
larly for post-1985 production.
48.        Technology development is being financed and coordinated by STI
and FINEP (Financiadora de Estudos e Projectos). Within the Alcohol Program,
STI is responsible for the development of policy options, technology extension
services, standards and quality control and coordination of the industrial
research and technology relating to use of crops other than sugarcane as well
as the research program to identify suitable biomass-based substitutes for
diesel oil. FINEP is a public financial institution supervised by the
Secretariat of Planning of Brazil (SEPLAN). Its main activities are
financing of pre-investment studies, basic and applied research, transfer
of foreign technology to Brazil and the development of new technologies by



- 14 -
Brazilian enterprises. FINEP is the main source of foreign and local
currency funds for these activities for both public and private enterprises
in Brazil.
Program Investment Cost
49.        The total investment cost of the 1981-85 National Alcohol Program,
including physical and price contingencies, working capital and interest
during construction, is estimated at the equivalent of US$7.5 billion in
current prices, of which US$2.3 billion equivalent or about 31% is in foreign
exchange. Foreign exchange costs include: imported components such as
stainless steel, instruments and other items used in manufacture of distillery
units; fertilizer and insecticides; imports required for the program's asso-
ciated agricultural facilities; an estimated 50% of the total cost for technology
development; and interest during construction on foreign loans.
Land Requirements and Impact on the Agricultural Sector
50.        The Government has so far played a limited role in the location
of alcohol facilities. Strong investment incentives, coupled with industrial
know-how and capital production capacity, have resulted in initial expansion
of alcohol production being based almost solely on sugarcane as the feedstock
in traditional sugar production areas and in association with existing sugar
mills. This has allowed rapid build-up of alcohol production capacity,
largely in the sugarcane growing areas of Sao Paulo and the northeast (see
IBRD Map No. 15334 attached at the end of this report).
51.        To meet the production target for 1985, about 1.8 million ha of
additional land will need to be brought into sugarcane production over and
above the 1980/81 sugarcane area, bringing total land requirements of the
program to 2.7 million ha. These requirements are equivalent to about 6% of
the current crop land and 3% of current crop and planted pasture land (a less
intensive use of crop land), and are manageable compared to the total agricul-
tural land availability provided careful monitoring within each state is
undertaken. The specific impact of the program will vary from state to state
depending on current use of the land suitable for sugarcane. In the tradi-
tional sugarcane producing areas of Sao Paulo, the expansion of sugarcane has
caused some changes in cropping patterns, with some food and export crop
production moving to other parts of the region, while cane expansion in newer
areas in western Sao Paulo and northern Parana has been on pastureland pre-
viously used for grazing. Since CENAL and state authorities now authorize new
alcohol plants mainly in these newer areas, food crop production in the region
is not expected to be adversely affected.
52.        In the northeast, there is little available pasture land for cane
expansion; most of the land suitable for sugarcane is restricted to the humid
coastal strip called the "zona da mata" which is cultivated intensively. In
this region, the expansion of sugarcane production is more likely to displace
food crop production as well as small farmers who grow food crops and share-
croppers who depend on traditional land tenure arrangements. This form of
rural employment would be replaced by the seasonal employment offered by



- 15 -
sugarcane production and distillery operations. Moreover, if alcohol produc-
tion in the northeast maintains its present pace, the region would develop an
increasingly large surplus since it has a relatively low automobile population.
The annual supply surplus could reach 1.3 billion liters by 1985. The south
(with little alcohol production) and the southeast, on the other hand, are
projected to remain in deficit even though a large increase in alcohol produc-
tion is planned for Sao Paulo and Parana. While regional imbalances between
production and consumption may be justified on grounds of comparative advantage,
there is evidence that alcohol production in the northeast in particular
involves higher costs than in other regions, mainly because of lower agricul-
tural productivity and higher transport costs. Additional emphasis needs to
be given, therefore, to production increases in other areas such as Mato
Grosso, Minas Gerais and Parana. CENAL is aware of this emerging problem and
has planned steps to slow down the future expansion of alcohol capacity in the
northeast, while encouraging its location in the projected deficit areas. The
impact on land use and the need for regional distribution of alcohol production
would be carefully assessed under the monitoring and evaluation system proposed
in this project in order to assist in planning future distillery locations
(paras. 63 and 64).
53.       The Borrower's appraisal/approval criteria (see para. 60) include
provision for ensuring that alcohol sub-projects do not displace food crop
production, do not affect adversely small farmer land tenure patterns, and
include adequate environmental safeguards and the Bank would retain the right
to suspend disbursements against any subproject authorized for financing under
the loan if it determined, after consultation with the Borrower, that the
subproject in question would have or is having such adverse consequences
(Section 5.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, in the traditional
sugarcane growing areas of Sao Paulo and the Northeast, only distilleries
using crops other than sugarcane or owned by small farmers or small-farmer
cooperatives would be eligible for Bank financing (Section 2.02(c)(viii) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       The impact of the program on food crop production is likely to be
more significant beyond 1985 as higher alcohol production targets are set.
This situation could force greater competition among agricultural resource
uses, particularly if the program continues to rely on sugarcane as its prime
raw material feedstock. The technical and economic feasibility of using
productively the vast "cerrado" in Central Brazil and the frontier areas of
Mato Grosso and the North is a key determinant of continued expansion of
alcohol production beyond 1985. Agricultural research to permit development
of these areas is being carried out by EMBRAPA, the federal agency in charge
of agricultural research, and is of high priority. The technology development
component and monitoring and evaluation system of the proposed project would
support efforts to utilize these areas.
Environmental Impact
55.       During fermentation and distillation of ethanol, a number of
byproducts are produced, of which stillage, the liquid effluent from the dis-
tillation process, could potentially pose a major disposal problem. Stillage
is produced in large quantities, about 10-13 times the volume of alcohol



- 16 -
produced, and if discharged directly into waterways can be a serious pollution
hazard. Because it contains protein and other nutrients, however, it does
have economic uses. Some distilleries in Brazil are using stillage effectively
as a fertilizer, applying it directly on the soil by spraying it from trucks
or through irrigation systems. This is a viable solution to the stillage
disposal problem in fields close to distilleries (the volume of stillage
prohibits its transport for long distances). Other distilleries are
concentrating the stillage for use as animal feed. These are not universal
solutions, however, and additional technical development is necessary to
achieve safe disposal techniques suitable to different localities. Before
receiving final approval from CENAL, all alcohol projects must have their
effluent treatment/disposal plans approved by SEMA, the Special Environmental
Secretariat of the Ministry of the Interior, and during implementation the
treatment/disposal systems must be inspected periodically, again by SEMA.
The appraisal criteria to be used for Bank-financed alcohol projects would
assure conformity with adequate pollution control standards, and the technology
development component of the project would support further development
of stillage utilization/disposal technology. The Borrower would ensure that
subprojects are carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors, and would inform the Bank of any significant changes in the relevant
regulations or the institutional arrangements for their enforcement (Section
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Objectives
56.       The proposed project would finance investment in alcohol and related
agricultural production facilities and technology development approved by
PROALCOOL during 1981-83. It would also include institution of a monitoring
and evaluation system to analyze the broader impact of PROALCOOL on food crop
production, regional development, rural employment and the environment in
order to take corrective measures where necessary and to plan constructively
for future expansion of the program. The Bank's participation in this project
is particularly important with respect to the technology development and
monitoring and evaluation components because it enables the Bank to continue
its dialogue with the Brazilian Government on the future direction and distribu-
tional implications of PROALCOOL.
Project Components
57.       Production Component.  This component would comprise about 250
alcohol production units (including associated agricultural production) to be
approved for financing by CENAL during 1981-83 and expected to come on-stream
during 1983-85. The typical capacity of these distilleries would be 120,000
lpd, although capacities could vary between 10,000 lpd and 800,000 lpd.
Altogether they would provide additional annual capacity of 5.6 billion
liters, of which 95% would be sugarcane-cased and 5% cassava-based. The
Bank's financing would attach to some 30-40 of these subprojects. This
component would also include units to demonstrate the commercial feasibility
of new technology, such as alcohol production from sweet sorghum, wood and
cellulose residues.



- 17 -
58.       Technology Development.  This component would support the biomass
production and conversion technology development program now underway in
Brazil being coordinated by STI and FINEP. About 50-60 subprojects ranging
from basic research to specific technical improvements in production technology
are expected to be approved during 1981-83. The Bank intends to encourage
emphasis on development of technology which would (i) reduce the heavy depen-
dence on sugarcane and good agricultural land by developing alcohol production
from alternative biomass sources; (ii) diversify the geographic base of produc-
tion; (iii) involve smaller farmers and small-scale entrepreneurs; (iv)
improve plant efficiency and pollution control; and (v) evaluate vegetable
oils as substitutes for diesel oil. Research under this component is expected
to be complementary with research to be undertaken under a second agricultural
research project which is now in preparation and for which we expect to
present a loan in the near future.
59.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  While CENAL's current project approval
system is satisfactory for approving individual projects from a technical and
financial standpoint and ensuring rapid production expansion, it does not
provide a thorough review and evaluation of PROALCOOL's broader economic and
social impact nor a framework for long-term planning. Under this component of
the project, the Bank would assist CENAL in the development of, first, a
monitoring capability to provide the Government, on an ongoing basis, with
a comprehensive analysis of the effects of PROALCOOL. Second, it would
support institution of periodic in-depth evaluations conducted by independent
consultants, commencing with an initial impact study within the first year of
the project. The information generated by the monitoring and evaluation
exercises would be used to modify the appraisal criteria for subprojects,
develop corrective measures, where necessary, and plan future policies.
implementation of Production and Technology Development Components
60.       The Bank project would be carried out, to the extent feasible,
through existing Brazilian institutions and procedures. The production
component would be implemented in accordance with the PROALCOOL approval
system and following existing appraisal criteria which are satisfactory to the
Bank with the exception that they do not provide for an adequate economic
evaluation of subprojects. Accordingly, the Borrower would, by December 31,
1981, introduce in its appraisal criteria provision for such economic evaluation,
and would ensure that thereafter the appraisal of all subprojects includes
such economic evaluation. In addition, the Borrower would, at least once each
year, exchange views with the Bank on the adequacy of its appraisal criteria
(Sections 3.02(b) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The first 10 pro-
duction subprojects to be submitted for Bank financing will be subject to the
Bank's prior approval (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement; Section
2.02(a) of the draft Banco Central Project Agreement).
61.       The selection criteria for subprojects to be financed by the Bank
would give preference to those which (i) are sponsored by small-farmer
cooperatives, small producers' associations and small-scale entrepreneurs;
(ii) propose to use agricultural raw materials other than sugarcene for
feedstock; (iii) propose to purchase 50% or more of their sugarcane from



- 18 -
independent suppliers; (iv) provide regional dispersion of alcohol facili-
ties; (v) are located in areas which will tend to reduce alcohol transport
costs; and (vi) involve the use of non-conventional technology (Supplemental
Letter No. 2).
62.       Demonstration units and technology development sub-projects would
be evaluated by STI and FINEP in accordance with agreed appraisal criteria.
Any technology development sub-project with an estimated cost larger than
US$1.0 million and any demonstration project would require prior approval by
the Bank. In addition, the projected annual programs of STI and FINEP for
technology development would be reviewed and agreed with the Bank each year on
the basis of the previous year's performance (Sections 2.02(a) and 3.04(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.04(b) of the draft FINEP Project
Agreement).
Implementation of the Monitoring and Evaluation System
63.       The monitoring function would be set up under CENAL, with the
cooperation of the Ministries of Agriculture, Mines and Energy, and Industry
and Commerce, STI, IAA and other agencies. CENAL does not currently have
the capacity to execute this function and has agreed to retain a consulting
organization whose qualifications are acceptable to the Bank to assist it
to carry out this exercise during the project period. The government has
further agreed to take all necessary measures to enable CENAL to continue
this activity beyond the project implementation period (Section 3.06(a) and
(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The terms of reference for the monitoring
activities have been agreed upon. The monitoring system would include an
initial baseline survey and subsequent annual updates of information relating
to such matters as: (i) energy and alcohol supply and demand; (ii) alcohol
input and output pricing; (iii) employment effects; (iv) effect on income
distribution; (v) impact on agriculture and land use; (vi) location of dis-
tilleries; and (vii) environmental impact. CENAL would report on and exchange
views with the Bank annually on the results of the monitoring exercise (Sec-
tions 3.04(b) and 3.06(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       The evaluation function would begin with an initial impact study,
to be conducted by an independent consultant during the first year. This
study would analyze the program's impact through case studies on a limited
number of distilleries already in operation or under construction, in order to
identify as quickly as possible actual effects on land use, land ownership,
employment and the environment. The consultants would be required to prepare
policy recommendations designed to minimize any possible negative impact of
the program. The borrower has already appointed an independent consulting
organization satisfactory to the Bank for this purpose under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. The study would be completed by December 31, 1981;
the borrower would furnish a report of the study to the Bank upon its comple-
tion and exchange views with the Bank on its findings (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
65.       Following the impact study, in-depth biennial evaluations (i.e.,
mid-project and post-project) of PROALCOOL would be conducted by an independent
consultant with qualifications acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.06(c) of the



- 19 -
draft Loan Agreement). These exercises would focus on broader issues such
as whether the program's objectives are being achieved, effectiveness of
implementation strategies, resource allocation, long-term impact on land
use, rural employment and food and export crop production, alcohol supply and
demand, and the feasibility of incorporating new biomass energy raw materials
into the program. The terms of reference for the mid-project evaluation
exercise have been agreed upon. Presentation of acceptable detailed designs
for both the monitoring and evaluation activities included under the project
and employment of consultants acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank would be conditions of loan effectiveness (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs
66.        Total financing requirements of the proposed project are estimated
at US$5.2 billion equivalent, including physical contingencies and price
escalation, working capital and interest during construction on foreign
borrowing. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$1.66 billion.
A summary of project costs appears in the loan and project summary at page ii.
67.        Base cost estimates for the production component include the capi-
tal costs of the distillery units and associated agricultural investments
(excluding land). The estimates were prepared in consultation with CENAL and
were derived from benchmark prices used by CENAL in its appraisal process and
from data provided by Brazilian engineering firms and equipment manufacturers
involved in alcohol systems supply. Base cost estimates for the technology
development component were derived from budget projections prepared by FINEP
and STI. Working capital estimates represent the incremental working capital
needs over the three year period to reach full production. The price escala-
tion estimate is based on international inflation rates, in US dollar terms,
of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-85 and 6% thereafter. Interest
during construction on foreign loans was calculated on the basis of an assumed
interest rate of 9.6% on the Bank loan and an assumed average interest rate of
11% on the US$800 million private foreign borrowing the Government has indi-
cated it will obtain in association with the Bank loan (see para. 70).
Financing Plan
68.        The Alcohol Program, under current government policy, is financed
through the following sources: (a) equity from investors to cover at least 20%
of the installed costs of production subprojects, except that in the case of
farmers' cooperatives or producers' associations, the equity contribution is
10%; (b) long-term funds raised by PROALCOOL to cover remaining investment
financing requirements; and (c) short-term loans from commercial banks to
cover working capital requirements.
69.        PROALCOOL funds come from three principal sources: (a) funds from
the National Energy Mobilization Fund, which relies on road taxes on automobile
owners and users; (b) net revenue accruing to the Government from alcohol
sales, i.e. the differential between the ex-distillery price of alcohol paid
by the Government and the pump price of anhydrous alcohol in gasohol and
hydrous alcohol less distribution costs and retailers' margin; and (c) foreign
borrowings.



- 20 -
70.       The proposed Bank loan is equivalent to 4.9% of estimated total
financing requirements or about 16% of foreign exchange needs. The Brazilian
government intends to obtain loans from private external lenders in an amount
of at least US$250 million towards the foreign financing requirements of the
project, for which we would provide the usual cofinancing links with such
lenders (Recital C of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would ensure
provision of all necessary resources to complete the project in a timely
fashion (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). A summary of the
financing plan appears in the loan and project summary at page ii.
On-Lending Arrangements
71.       The proposed Bank loan of US$250 million would be made to the
Federative Republic of Brazil at the standard Bank interest rate for 15 years
including a 3 year grace period. The Brazilian government would bear the
exchange risk. US$219 million equivalent of the proposed loan would be made
available to the Central Bank to finance a part of the 1981-83 alcohol
production facilities, including demonstration units, approved by CENAL.
US$30.0 million would be made available, in equal shares, to FINEP (US$15.0
million equivalent) and STI (US$15.0 million equivalent) for financing of
biomass energy technology research and development. Up to US$1.0 million
would be made available to CENAL to develop the monitoring and evaluation
system.
72.       The US$219 million equivalent allocated for the production component
and demonstration units would be used to refinance loans provided by commercial
and development banks to alcohol project investors on PROALCOOL terms. PROALCOOL
loans currently carry fixed nominal interest rates of 55% for distillery invest-
ments and 45% for associated agricultural investment (in the north/northeast,
these rates are 45% and 35% respectively), and a repayment period of 12 years
including 3 years of grace (see paras. 76 and 77). The participating bank
collects interest and principal from the investor when it is due and then
passes the payments on to the Central Bank, deducting a 4 percentage points
interest spread which represents its service charge. The participating bank
carries the full risk of investor default. The US$30.0 million allocated to
FINEP and STI would be made available to Brazilian entities engaged in biomass
energy technology development on terms consistent with prevailing financing
terms, which are (i) loans of up to 80% of the subproject's financing require-
ments, with a 12-year repayment period, including 3 years grace, and 8% per
annum interest rate with 40-100% monetary correction; and (ii) grants which
are primarily for basic R&D work. Terms for each subproject would be determined
by STI and FINEP on a case by case basis depending on risk factors, value of the
research/development to be undertaken and the nature of the subproject sponsor.
Procurement
73.       As a credit program for the private sector, the project is not
suitable for full-fledged international competitive bidding. However, procure-
ment arrangements for the production component and demonstration units of the
project to be financed by the Bank are designed to permit international firms
which have been prequalified to compete on a fair basis with local enterprises.
Contracts for the production component are expected to be let on a "turnkey"
basis. Locally produced components would benefit from a domestic preference



- 21 -
not exceeding 15% in bid evaluation. Advertising and qualifying procedures
would include: (i) advertisements published in Development Forum, the local
press and trade journals; (ii) notification to embassies in Brasilia; (iii)
registration by CENAL of foreign and local firms on the basis of criteria
agreed with the Bank; and (iv) periodic publication of the registration list
in local press and trade journals. All subsequent business development would
be conducted by individual suppliers, and advertising for individual subprojects
would not be required. To be eligible for Bank funds, individual subproject
sponsors would invite offers from at least two local and two foreign suppliers
of their choice from the registration list, evaluating those offers on the
basis of price, operating efficiency, plant reliability and after-sales
service (Section 2.04 and Schedule 3 of the draft Loan Agreement). For
imported component (after application of a 15% preference in favor of local
components), all necessary import licenses would be promptly issued (Section
3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). Procurement procedures would be monitored
during supervision to ensure that they conform with the above objectives.
74.       Procurement for subprojects under the technology development component
would be conducted in accordance with sound commercial and technical practice
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements
75.       Bank funds would be disbursed to cover 55% of the total installed
cost or 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported components for each subproject
under the production component, whichever is higher, and 50% of the total cost
of each sub-project under the technology component. The 55% disbursement rate
for the production component was set so as to allow for equal treatment in the
percentage of financing of total sub-project cost as between sub-projects for
which foreign suppliers win the bid and sub-projects for which local suppliers
win the bid (it was estimated that a sub-project for which a foreign supplier
wins the bid, would, in the typical case, involve direct imports of about 55%
of total sub-project cost). On this basis, the Bank expects to participate in
the financing of about 30-40 sub-projects under the production component. The
50% disbursement rate for the technology development component corresponds to
the estimated foreign exchange cost of this component and was established to
afford the Bank a reasonable participation in the total three-year program.
Overall, Bank financing will represent approximately 15% of the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project. Disbursements in respect of local
currency expenditures for production unit subprojects and FINEP technology
subprojects will be made against Statements of Expenditures certified by
Banco Central and FINEP, respectively. Detailed documentation supporting the
Statements of Expenditures, including appraisal documents and individual
contracts, would be maintained by the Central Bank and FINEP, respectively,
and made available for review by Bank supervision missions. The Bank would
disburse, also against complete documentation, 100% of the costs of consultants
employed by CENAL up to US$1 million for the monitoring and evaluation system.
Disbursements in respect of foreign expenditures and STI technology subprojects
will be fully documented. An estimated schedule of disbursements appears
in the project summary above at page ii. The closing date for the loan would
be June 30, 1985.



- 22 -
Credit Subsidies under PROALCOOL
76.        Consumer prices of alcohol reflect the full economic cost of produc-
tion. However, ex-distillery prices are on the low side, giving an unneces-
sarily large margin to the Government. In order to ensure, nevertheless,
a sufficiently attractive return to investors, the Government has offered
substantial credit subsidies. The Bank has encouraged the Government to
achieve appropriate returns to investors through its pricing policy (i.e.,
the ex-distillery price offered) rather than through the credit system (see
para. 78).
77.       As part of a package of new monetary measures announced by the
Government in December 1980, interest rates under PROALCOOL were significantly
raised for 1981. As indicated at para. 72, interest rates for subprojects
approved in 1981 will be fixed at 55% for distillery investments and 45% for
associated agricultural investment (in the north/northeast, these rates are
45% and 35% respectively). 1/ Although under the current level of inflation
these rates are negative in real terms, they are higher than effective PROALCOOL
interest rates during 1980 (based on 40% of ORTN plus a 3-5% nominal
interest charge) equivalent to 25% in the North/Northeast and 27% in other
regions. The new level of interest rates is considered acceptable on the
following conditions: (i) that the price to consumers remains sufficient to
cover full economic production cost, and (ii) that as interest rate subsidies
in other credit programs are gradually reduced and eliminated (which is the
Government's declared intention), credit subsidies under PROALCOOL would be
reduced and eliminated pan passu. The Government would confirm its policy
accordingly (Supplemental Letter No. 1 re. Representations on Interest Rates
and Alcohol Pricing). Additionally, the Government would at least once a
year, exchange views with the Bank on the adequacy of interest rates applicable
to lending operations under PROALCOOL (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Return on Equity to Alcohol Investors
78.        The return to investors participating in PROALCOOL is dependent on
the level of the interest rate subsidy and the ex-distillery price offered
by the Government. Under interest rates and prices in effect in 1980, the
return on equity to investors (based on a typical sugarcane-based distillery
producing 120,000 lpd) was about 24%. Under the new interest rate structure,
but maintaining ex-distillery prices at 1980 levels, the return on equity to
investors would decline to about 15%, which may not be sufficiently attractive
to stimulate the level of investment necessary to meet PROALCOOL targets.
Consequently, the Government would adopt and maintain an alcohol pricing
policy which at the producer level would ensure a reasonable return on equity
and which would be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in valuation
of assets, production costs and interest rates (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
1/   Beginning in 1982, PROALCOOL interest rates (for loan contracts approved
in 1981) will be set at 5% per annum plus monetary correction of the
principal amount of from 55-70% of the annual variation of the ORTN
(indexed national treasury bond), with ceilings which limit the
combined nominal interest rate and monetary correction factor to the
nominal interest rates in effect for 1981.



- 23 -
Impact on Government Budget
79.       The Alcohol Program results in a substantial net positive con-
tribution to the Government budget, assuming the differential between the
ex-distillery alcohol price and retail price to consumers, which is set by
the Government, stays at present levels in constant terms. Over the 20-year
economic life of the Project, the present value of the net cash flows to the
Government, measured at 11% opportunity cost of capital, is estimated at
about US$960 million.
Impact on Employment
80.       The production and technology development components of the project
would generate employment in agricultural, industrial and service sectors.
The net impact on employment in agriculture, however, cannot be estimated
accurately until specific proposals for the siting of new distilleries are
known. The impact could be neutral or negative in cases where distilleries
are located in highly mechanized sugarcane growing areas or in regions where
expansion of sugarcane production would occur on land upon which small indepen-
dent or tenured farmers growing food crops depend (see para. 52). On the
other hand, where distilleries are associated with sugarcane production which
is labor-intensive or where its expansion utilizes pasture land or undeveloped
regions of the country, the creation of employment could be significant. Some
56,000 jobs are expected to be created directly from operation of the roughly
250 distilleries in the project. An estimated 130,000 jobs are expected to be
created indirectly through associated production of agricultural and distillery
equipment and manufacturing related to production and conversion of cars to
operate on hydrous alcohol. The technology development component is expected
to create net professional jobs of about 1,500. Jobs would also be created in
other service sectors related to the project (i.e., distribution, regulation
enforcement, quality control and banking services).
Economic Analysis
81.       The economic viability of ethanol production is dependent on the
economic valuation of raw materials, capital and operating (including energy)
costs, compared to the cost of gasoline refined from imported petroleum. The
cost/benefit streams for purposes of computing the rate of return on this
project were based on a "typical" 120,000 lpd distillery with an operating
life of 20 years. Sugarcane has been valued at its average economic cost of
production 1/ and cassava at its selling price. Gasoline prices are based on
mid-1980 crude oil values and on the assumption of a 3% p.a. real increase in
gasoline and petroleum prices over the next 20 years. Local costs were
shadow-priced by 30% to take into account over-valuation of the cruzeiro.
1/   Since sugar is an internationally traded commodity, it can be argued that
its opportunity value is that of sugar exports, thus linked to world
sugar prices. But the additional sugarcane production to meet 1985
alcohol targets if diverted to sugar production would be so substantial
-- 11 million tons, or 40% of present world trade in sugar -- that if
released on world markets it would reduce world sugar values by roughly
50% of the projected long-term equilibrium value.



- 24 -
The alcohol produced is valued at its opportunity value (the gasoline equiva-
lent), which is different for anhydrous and hydrous alcohol. Existing internal
combustion engines do not require any modification to run on "gasohol" and
give the same mileage with gasohol and gasoline. Thus, the opportunity value
of anhydrous ethanol is assumed to be equivalent to the economic value of
gasoline. The economic value of straight ethanol is derived from that of
anhydrous ethanol after adjusting for: (a) increases in car production costs
(about 5%); (b) loss of fuel efficiency as indicated by lower mileage (about
20%); (c) increased volume (6%) of ethanol production from the same raw
materials; and (d) savings in straight ethanol production costs (about 5%).
After combining these factors, the economic value of hydrous alcohol is
estimated at about 86% of anhydrous alcohol.
82.       With respect to capital costs, the Brazilian alcohol industry is
an efficient competitive supplier of conventional sugarcane alcohol technology.
Capital costs in mid-1980 prices (excluding taxes, price escalation, and
interest during construction) for a 120,000 lpd, sugarcane-based production
subproject in the southeast/south are estimated at US$10.8 million equivalent.
Transport and other factors (such as higher construction costs) add approxi-
mately 10% to these costs for a subproject located in the northeast. Cassava
or other starch-based alcohol plants are technically similar to sugarcane-based
plants, except for additional equipment for the saccharification of starch
into sugar. Cassava-based alcohol plants are estimated to cost 20% more than
similar sugarcane-based plants.
83.       The other principal processing cost is fuel.  A sugarcane dis-
tillery is energy self-sufficient (it uses bagasse from sugarcane to fuel
its boilers and generate power). For cassava plants, which have to purchase
outside energy, operating costs are higher. This fact, along with the
higher capital costs of cassava-based production, make the economics of
cassava-based ethanol plants currently less attractive compared to sugarcane-
based plants. Where cheap coal or wood is available (coal in the case of
southern Brazil and wood in the case of northern or western Brazil), energy
costs could be substantially reduced, which would improve the economics of
cassava-based plants.
Project Benefits and Risks
84.       Under the above assumptions, the sugarcane-based production facil-
ities, representing 95% of the production component in terms of volume of
alcohol produced, are expected to yield economic rates of return of 17-21%.
The economic return is not sensitive to land value.but a 20% decrease in
agricultural yield lowers the return by 2-3 percentage points. The remaining
cassava-based units, comprising 5% of the component, would have an estimated
10-16% rate of return, assuming the availability of cheap wood or coal for use
as the distillery fuel and that the cost of cassava is between $20-25/ton.
At full production, the alcohol output of the production component would
result in an estimated net annual foreign exchange savings averaging US$1.3
billion in mid-1980 prices. Over the 20-year economic life of the production
component, total net foreign exchange savings are estimated at about US$32
billion in mid-1980 prices.



- 25 -
85.       The project would also generate substantial non-quantifiable benefits.
Brazil's equipment manufacturing industry, which is quite competitive, is
expected to win substantial portions of the project's equipment requirements,
thus increasing its capacity utilization. The technology development component
of the project would put the country in the forefront of biomass energy tech-
nology, thus enhancing Brazil's opportunities for exporting its know-how in
this area to other countries.
86.       Clearly a project this complex, involving a large number of institu-
tions, has a number of risks associated with it. A major risk to the project
is the dependence on sugarcane for 95% of the alcohol supply during 1981-85
while the fuel and automobile markets are adapting themselves to greater
utilization of alcohol (i.e., the increased production of all-alcohol cars).
A crop failure in one season could be very disruptive. To reduce this risk,
in the short term, the government is encouraging the establishment of regional
storage facilities; in the long term, it hopes to reduce the program's
dependence on sugarcane by using alternative crops and to diversify areas
of production.
87.       Another risk is the effect of the necessary increase in sugarcane
production on land use, food crop production and rural employment in specific
areas, particularly in intensive growing areas of the northeast. This risk
becomes more significant after 1985, and it underlines the need for concerted
research to develop the agricultural and industrial technology needed to meet
future production requirements. Insufficient or lack of timely support of
necessary technology development is, therefore, an additional risk associated
with the project. There are also environmental risks, such as river pollution
through improper disposal of effluents. The monitoring and evaluation system
included under the project would assist in identifying actual and potential
problems and provide a basis for CENAL to take corrective action. It would
also help in planning for future development of the program to avoid supply
problems and any negative impact on agriculture and the environment. In
addition, the technology development component of this project would actively
support the research necessary to achieve expanded alcohol production after
1985, utilizing raw materials other than sugarcane and expanding production
on lower quality agricultural land and in less developed regions of the
country.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
88.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Banco
Central do Brasil, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and FINEP,
draft supplemental letters re. Representations on Interest Rates and Alcohol
Pricing (No. 1) and re. Production Subproject Selection (No. 2), and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
89.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness is described in para. 65.



- 26 -
90.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
91.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 23, 1981
Washington, D. C.



-27-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                      - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           8512.0
AGRICULTURAL-   2067.2                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUPOPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 320.0       570.0    1690.0                  1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     332.0       474.0     794.0                  1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     71.5        95.2     119.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1        55.9      63.3                    63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     201.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       345.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RUCHED                  2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 101.                       8.0        11.0      14.0                    28.1                     77.2
PER SQ. KE. AGRICULTURAL LAND     44.0        49.0      58.0                    81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.6        42.6      41.7                    41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                         53.8        54.3      54.9                    54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         3.1       3.4                     3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3. 0        2.9       2.8                     2.7                      1.6
URBAN                              5.5         4.8       4.5                     4. 1                     3.3
CRUtDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.0        38.0      36.0                    34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     11.0         9.0       9.0                     8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.6         2.6       2.4                     2.5                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       111.0    203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          1.6
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0    112.0                    106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREIENTS)                  101.0       104.0    107.2                    107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          61.0        62.0      62.7                    65.6                     91.0
OF WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       34.0        34.0      35.1                    33.7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0        10.0       9.0                     8.4                      4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0        61.0      62.0                    63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..           ..        ..                    66.5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        56.3      77.1                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        77.7      88.8                    80.4
RURAL                              ..         29.0      56.8                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.9      64.8                    62. 3
URBAN                               ..        86.1      83.7                    79.4
RURAL                               *-        26.5      31.7                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3600.0      1910.0    1700.D                  1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3220.0        ..                  1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            309.0       262.0     253.0                   480.3                    289.7
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                                           ..        .
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         18.0        ..                      ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5. 1        4.8       4.9
URBAN                               ..         4.6       4.7
RURAL                              ..          5.2       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER RO8M
TOTAL                               *.         1.1
URBAN                              ..          1.0
RURAL                               ..         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             38.7        47.6      63.0
URBAN                               ..        75.6      84.9
RURAL                               ..         8.4      19.2



-28-                                          MNEX I
PaRe 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) i.
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95. 0       125.0      90.0JO                    99.7                     105.9
MALE                  97.0       125.0       89. 0/c                 101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                93.0       125.0       90. 0/c                  99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         26.0      24.0/c                    34.4                      64.t
MALE                  11. 0       26.0       22. O/c                  33.5                      71. 1
FEMALE                10.0        26.0       26. 0/c                  34.7                      56. 9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  19.0          17.0      47.0/c                    38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         28.0      22.0                      30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          13.0         13.0      11.0                      14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         66.2       75. 7                    76. 3
CONSUMOPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         25.0      52.4                      43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0        124.0     155.0                    245.3                      192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0         64.0      93.0                     84.2                      118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0         37.0      39.0                      63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0           1. 9       2. 6                      ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22872.9        30057.3   37704.7
FEMfALE (PERCENT)                  17.5         20.4      22.0                     22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9         45.6      41.0                      37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8         18.3      22.0                     23.5                       29. 3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.0         31.6       31.5                     31.5                      40.9
MALE                                 52.7         50.3       49.5                     48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                11.2        12.8       13.6                     14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4        1.4                      1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOMfE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0          63.5      62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3. 8          3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8           9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..     150.0                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     465.0                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     332.0                     332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
[JRBAN                               ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mneans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estirmate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groupa 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-29-                                                                 ANNE  I
Page 3
DEFINITIONSd OF SOCiAL IODICAOTIR
gos;Although  thu  aaae drwAfoiou.sgoouliIude   he n.0auh-rtu-o  so,                             oai,i  ohuddlo  enI                 ta   heSantheier
belese, useful to descr ibe order. of  atitude, todic-te trends, and cha...e-trin  certin nujor differeorns hettuootsrra
e. refece..ie trup  ar  fi' toe sane coutr   noup of the tuij-c  coutr  sod.  1 I  a country troop .ith  -nethe  higher aegetin-  than  bscosrr  grop
ofth  gbja.In c-Zrr  (ootopt for 'Cupiltr : -Poe- Otl fopo.tere" grou  wher  "tMtddiel.      n L   orstAfra an.   d eiddie Enst' it ot...est hsusie  of erttr
lathalf of the c          ietfe   In aI geoP h   data forithat inicaor   flatf  Ie oceeg    f cutIIIt amog the indicators depends on the  aslabtilip  ha
dat  aod isnnuifue.ouioms  aesrsd inrltoater   foeidctrt   nte.Thes  a-erage  see only useful InnL.                                                          the  -alu
Tota  - oT-1srtc  ae  oropriigludreanIcndtr.ao ilana qustitled from  s dical school at u-i--rit  leos
Agricultural - E.tigate ofagicltra  aror  -edtaprtC  cc                  --onoeo ly      Iplto            ugn   esn- Population dinided by usbsr of ersonirin
for croPs, patue.        ket and kitchen gardrna     to lit taller;1977 data.            saig  rd femal  g-ad-eerrs.pratiIca   -.r..e  ..nd aes.nsai nuse
Poultin   r   an Ja.gd - tota. uba. aud rurs  - fPepuatien (renal
CuPpirCuffd  11)  - hP  er  apia ot Iatu  atlL    coc`t97 nucie  ptieu  ca-          urI,  o  rri   diodd bytheir rempectre ubt~   of henitl beds
cu9ata  hgaecrescomtoatuodhcAusfff.0hai);91,                                               ailbeipuirnd p i-nat  genera  so1 d sp.tielised hepitel neWe
190,ud  1979 data.                                                                      habtlitatiot centers.  HtoJpit.e .. are  stablishmant  perunstly snaffsd
by_on_least ore physiIn           stisumnpeonding principall  tetadda1
ihiblf Clftitlllilt PA IdOITA  -donual conuayclco ofonmeerchalenergy (col  care arennt Includd,  Ruralhhepitals, hwever, inuuds healthendde-di.a
And lignite,I petolen.-.. t     Iua  gee and (ydo-. nultoted goohorou  IIa-                n_t_r  non  lemosy ettffed by s phystota  (hut by a sedirsi sastgamo
ttriciny   cc Lhilograns of -cleu1 alorpat ca 9i; 60b, 1970. god 1978                        ur    nidnife, et.-) ehih offsr in-patien  ronnatgse   omd
dens.                                                                itartalesone~~~~~~~j~-     d,  of eedtrsl f-citntns..  Fur I etaignio    purggm    nbag Swept-
naig include WHO.  rn a  genmiad epecilaked heapitaig, ad e-eI
POPUTLATIfON  N  VstITA11 STATISTICS                                                          heieslclo   nlhepitatadsdns   n    aesiynmss
Tntel fo -aion. _fid-Yga.-     llom            f up  July 1; lit?. 1970, at,d 1978       oduimin  ne       .eta     1e    Tonal o,nano   dmsb-go  o   irbrg
data,                                                                                      tretop    faIdtfelb  the nangr of bsds.
diffsrenn dgfrtso  utngosuy affe-t coip-rbhlIny of Inca                              HyttI -h -ii       ,d~ddb
gangcnntrea;md, lof.andhO   dun.                                  nerue  in  ofhouehod  otoonetsrbosshld)- ttal uban  an  enal
leel  adfasl  If  epctoo   aailoldat775yern   Tepot-dIdino thspucttoey.  l                                             dolifga Yantld   oer tem bsr  sirulurn  and
tertlliry  according no income  ~iscladcs  fas-Pily I plnInd. porformach Aces  no. hlcccn.o1nd                  fdaina)-ttl   rbn   ~   ng
andfetiirytrnd lfor "Pynjetynn purpceeaf c                                                   -a -  Pca., nod_ meal doeli rap-tin,y
saint  Lotn. thisitaciee  onl  ef_e  eff- Arc rucs  ecin  to                         hjtedfrlarr no
the repacamarnleoti  f unit  ot ceprducti-  -tto,   no roc  geoAaf.tn        .Prtar  Ecol.     -foa,ml adfml-ooetri,et1ndfml
odf n tilen rep laces      PTee f ecLp.. Teoaicc    ouiiriea                              tuloto   l  ages at otts.prImary lee   spratgab                  frsst
in  bithe year  10. godl th  rteo  Incin   o  lenti Icy rac  to , rolot                  pomht-dudfo   ifret                 -nthsofp- mtedc t;  o
egot lenel.                                                                       euu~~Ihd-   Id  'l  I  EUCTON cout   ncra   dcto    nolaosyore   O    eta
g,ehue.    r  rgaotgd.                                                                 Orcndiytc-oc -totl,saeiad  em.n..C.ptedasshns;-hoggr
oLy.                                                                                   louticil enhllIot Iceced-of-eatflaol -tocatinal_getl_tieI
Poouiuioc  ue Ituctun  ireo    I -flliden  0-0 Crat I.conkiu-aso15-        icsodetobocs_  .lnduert             -11or otee rogeen   hortdaparteds6ep11
bu yese I. ad esniad (6  years sd    The. usyececuo  ofstj id-ey PPOPOij            yeoc-  or, anJ1 lepart    iffog o   1econdhr  Ifrttlturdionie.f
P'in;190   191.an  199dI.yyltshrrto-ciao  adeonao-Ttlsoat nolda
la1-tioefr19.0   91f.an   917atucnaoo  total ault ....a..                                                                            o  aged-~- itpersao od
ted  te-    Of Mide t...ua... I-   P_ua  lion hic...ha per thousand of odd-year..d
Crude bur  tanm lee  ttoueand   - hnn-aidoatha pe  fhoIgandof utd-ya
popultIon   196, 19 1..ad 198dt..                                                aene  Cane jootouur  pouahol-Pseoe   ar    p                             Ia   n
of htt-otoldoesuds   uoeo  fotoa1  uuocaolkycct.                                          uaieto.dt   o  recent19eats way nor he c                  -danb - since 1. mus
ecee  of  hil-ecigao-1-Ayer)douohrt-Ptollcou   o                                   I'  e         doro(eotosndcclaiu f1-fetlyge   for -I hesdug  to
loden.. of. PoodProdctio  tee0Ccitd 11970-781.          -no   fpe   aiasca               Oscrccruato    crtosn Lituluttoi-bostgntgcraa
rroducinnofalfoodceaditAdd, Produtuonocloesfetaodfedad luncndofdpuailneindt  getealas.  insod l.
o_sPItionol    960 ac 9rge   Ocduot 197 r ditolghs  IPl-f.110.u. l7Xdt- sd   ohleni
Per R.ptta-i. mou.ofc -lrta  loeruan  of rdouguncce  .. Cojllo  room-ti    ..th                                     gt...  
peh..   Ihataespp-iet               h.rtodnetcpout c,llc ta loon                      focailiI, L -o oorjhuniui            cowtal   colesn,-nldn
hueodlal; 1961-h, 1977an  117  data.    ff-i j                                               cacen.o.o.tta..aorfoce  hO.   1971. and. 197  lets.
quiromenutfor alt cuntrias gtshluuhol  y IhiA pyotle foe  InIdu        1870 and 1971 daca.                                             i
al hooc  e  6  gnn  o  rural 4.procot  per day sdh20g-al ufanml- ad              Pc ptA  hat(prcet)..  -  uatule.ngenl      attialno
dus   rtt,o   he   0gsstol   o  colpoen    h                        co-              itt   ae  are~I computd amrte)tV ae  and.. fesl  lbord . ft tee
rIceIfos.ad     mlnan  pulnee .C-dIn ra   per day  1961-i. 1870. an177daa             teonoic dI...edooorto-rtoo  ropuId          isr-ion undr t1 end 69 ad rs4
Chl fie  1-AlI rotninh  hatedfret thou_odtl~ -tAnnua  ltatht peef ninad to            t  the tdtul,I' n  for .         I.t-t.   
age aroop  -u yeses, o ettllestInt Iu agt grup                                   I    A.sot.t.loluA'u
te geatade -o d fro    life tablt;  961 191706un 19177 Oats n197ocd-luodiiiti
-p,i- d=.'tl ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    PeunosaLoftrcac -os5Ih -hio 00th and  in)-   gr Idbrihs
sthoh   90   91s 1 1910 date.                                                    ofi touuehiidpn.l.   160   170..
eater rueb ne tht from  poonecre  hoenholeg. tprigm, and tuolitr                    p--edattt.gtlleslo .Poet Income Isoel fu-n1I 0 te 19it  - urba  sad rur1.
of thgleenpncnne coulatius.  IouurhnnaeaopuhIc tur lee                ...ite pocorto  freon  iuoel     I.e on -thedoiassg   enIpe
hIdesto    1-et  Ithois Inerufa75rt . of noultlu-otl    3oa   and                          .    I..          ..l   ..      f 1.f.l
rual i-l pu-ir of   -pl --in.  urban  awl -   rurup) toned hyFAG ~thorons5'tp.t.I..   .l .  I
dispsld  ge. Serannse  ff16517 nhs drree 7ecni6e  o197att-d 19cedata ns-Thooi  nod  Pnt"Otsnneo
pogel may include te inflection tod iipooal. olci or olthut tresngerc, "conyiif-dnsiyei--sod PIjno-inga ..peettan
of .h.gu    ..oe..tarinstts-Psto       dp atr-om   system. .0 .d o7 the use of                                             p.Ictoher.d  1981d65..
phitd pelcie  sod1 eteiar lsesl--tIhous              d-      -.p,  h:di



-30-
EC00W11C INDICATORS                                                               ANNEX 4
Page 4
Population:      122.9       (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita: US$1,687   (1979)
Amount                          Averge Annual Incre ae (%)                              Share of GDP at Mrket Prices (7.)
Indicator                                         (million US$ eurrert)                      (at unmatet 1970 aiueS)                                       (at current prices)
1979                   1965-70      1970-75      1975-80      1980-85             1970     1975      1979      1980b/      1985
N.tio..l Accountt
Naron   Acspe}tauntap-d-t-/                                                         7.7         10.6          6.9          5.4             100.0    lOO.i    100.0    100.0         100.0
Agricultore                                            19,314                     l.9          5.1          4.7          4.2               8.2      8.7       9.4       9.9         9.4
Industry                                              65,094                      9.2         11.6          7.6          5.5              29.1     32.6      31.0      31.6        31.8
Servicet                                              06,970                      8.0        10.7           6.8          5.5             43.0      41.3      42.5      42.6        42.5
Coonu-ption                                            163,334                      7.7          9.8          5.7          4.9              76.9     78.6      79.8      79.0        76.3
Gross inve-tme-t                                        46,176                      9.4         14.6          5.2          5.4              23.5     25.4      22.6      22.6        22.9
Exporct of goods sod NFS                                16,714                      8.2         11.2          7.3         10.1               6.6      7.4       8.2       7.8         9.7
Imports of goods sod W9S                                21,748                     14.5         17.2          2.8         4.9                7.0     11.4      10.6       9.4         8.9
Gress dosoencic ou-iogo                                 41,142                      7.9         12.9          6.1          6.2              23.1     21.4      20.2      21.0        23.7
A     0.untZ/                   Average Ansual Increase (7.)                   Conpositiun of Merchkndine Trnde (.)
(millioc US$ 0u0000                       (at constant 1970 scions)                            (t currec perices)
1980                          1965-70      1970-75     1975-80                   1966      1970      1975      19800f
Merchaodite Trade
M-rchaodis- eports                                     20,132                            7.8          11.9         5.8                    100.0    100.0    500.0    100.0
Primsry                                              9,412                             73             .3         1.1                    82.9      75.1      61.8     46.8
Manotufturon                                        10,720                                          28.1        1.7.9  2.2              17.1      24.9      38.2      53.2
Morchuodiae imports                                    22,961                           10.0          17.6        -1.4                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                 1,239                            3.B           -6.7        17.5                     11.5      4.5       3.0       5.4
Petoolecs                                           10,210                             9-3           7.6        4.3                     14.7      11.2      24.5     44,5
Maokinory aod equipmooot                             4,392                            22.1          15.2       -7.5                      15.2     21.2      14.0     19.1
othor                                                7,120                             8.3          28.4       -1.9                     50.6      63.1      59.5     31.0
1975      1976       1977       1978      1979      1980-/
Prices sad Toon- of Trade
GDP dnflt-or (1970-100)                                 289.6     410.9      584.2      809.2   1,229.6    2,469.5
txchange rate (Cr0/uS$)                                  8.1       10.6       14.1       18.1      26.9         53.5
Export price ilden (1970=1007                          176        192        226        228        266        290
Import price inden (1970-=10)                          242        255        286        317        389        431
T.os of trade iodex (1970-100!                          72         75         79         72         68         67
As 7b of GDP
- (at0 currant prices) 
1970      1975       1979-/
Public Fipnsuo  (c-tral iorooooi)
Current revenue                                                   16.6       19.8       20.8
Current enpendituee                                               14.4       15.8       17.6
Surplut (+) or deficit (-)                                         2.2        4.0        3.2
Capicul enpenditure                                                2.6        3.8        3.7
FiPancing (fnt)                                                   -0.4       +0.2       -0.5
1965-70     1970-75      1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP gr-oh ract7%                                                               7.7         10.7          5.8
GNP per uspita grovth rota (%)                                                 4.6          7.7          3.0
Energy consmption groth rste (-t)                                              7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOE                                                                           2.9          3.0          3.9
Marginal savings race                                                         20.5         25.7         22.7
Import elasticicy                                                              2.2          1.6          0.3
a/ A u .rkot prices-; copo--s  are net domestli  prod cca emproessd st f.cror cos - nod
vill nor udd due to e-clunion of depreciation and indiroct caxes leas.ukbidiss.
b/ EsrinaAe
c/ Preliminary
April 23, 1981



-31-                                                                        ANNEX I
Page S
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL ABn DEBT
(million Us5 et urarent pricco)
Popdlatlonn         122.9 million (mid-1979)
CNP Per C.pita:   Us$1,687 (1979)
ACTuAL                                                                                         PO0JtC1vv
1970            1975           1976             1977           1978            1979            091!             19 1981         1982            1              19
Ba)lance Bt Payments
Bp   xot   f goods and servces                   -583          -tOOl2          -tOl            -4,037         -5,999          -9,774        -12,379           -11,789         -11,421          -9,974 
Netoexports of goods                                (2,739)         (8,6702        (10,128O        (12.120)       (12,b59)        (15,244)       120,132)           24,620          29,431          35,195          423744
Imports of goods                                    (2,5071        (12,2101        (12,383)        (12,023)       (13,683)        (17,951)       (22,961)           26,032          28,570          31,137          33,934
Bet fer.or income                                     -330          -1,733          -2,1B9          -2,558         -3,257          -4,740         -7,300            -8,347         -10 ,031        -11,536         -12,d02
(of  h-h ivtirest paometst)                       (-284)        (-1,498)        (-1,809)        (-2,103)       (- 2,69'7        (-46104)      (-6,004)           (-6,979)        (-8,673)      (-10,192)       (-11,498)
Net nov-factor set7ices                               -485          -1,429          -1,574          -1,576         -1,718          -2,327         -2,200            -2,030          -2,251          -2,493          -2,762
Net -ron-fo-t                                              21               2               1           _                 72              17            150                41              50              50              .0
Coerrveaccount bAnlaoce                                 -562          -6,700          -6,017          -4,030         -3,927          -9,757        -12,179           -11,748         -11,371          -9,923          - /,104
Dire-I prti-te i-vest       2t                             92            892             959             810             906          2,200          1,202              1,736           1,967           2,226          2,513
PLT . - oo  9O~                                           76 7         3,760           1,023           4,631          8,819           4,995          5,431             11,991          11.585         10.370           7,710
Tr-dt onai sonr.1 (833)                                             (i1,408         (2,052)         (2,648)        (2.793)         (2,738)        (2,81i)            (3, 794        (3,9483)        (4.173)         (4,063)
Fi-aacaolvr-dit-                                      (566)         (4,524)         (5,980)         (6,118)       (11,312)         (8,80B)        (9,570)          (15,646)        (16.151)        (15,519)        115,454)
Am-rri-ati-n                                         (-632)        (-2,172)        (-3,009)        (-4,135)       (-5,286)        (-6,551)       (-7,000)          (-7,449)        (-8,514)        (-9,321)       1-11,604)
Bra)ili.. loa e    brood (not)                          -               -197            -248            -267           -358            -596             568           -1.082          -1,442          -1,918          -2,121
Other -ap-av    -,i.                                     248           1.295           2.627            -507            440              -61         1,459               -               -               _
Chaogr     rrserven  (-incre-se 11                      -545             950          -2,344            -630         -3,880           3,219          3,499               -897            -739            -755           -799
Inn ornotiox I Reserves-/                              1,142           4,036           6,544           7,256         11,826            9,688         6,911              7,808          8,547           9,301          10,099
Reserves as oo-ths of imports5                              5.5             3.9             6.3             7.             10.4            6.5            3.6               3.0             3.t             3.t             1.6
ACTOUAL
1974           1975            1976            1977            1978            1979         1980
External Debt
Total debt ottnrsvding  nnd disbursed                                 17,576          23,200         28.344           34,440          46,309         50,956        56,407 6/
P.bl-  nod pnbliclp ganrannod                                        9,394          13,608         17,211          21,434          30,157          35,092
Officiaigot - e                                                    3,276           3,911         4,393            4,693           5, 354          5,801
IBRD                                                             (871)         (1,093)        (1,217)          (1,413)         (1,602)         (1,827)
Other                                                          (2,405)          (2,818)       (3,176)          (3,280)         (3,752)         (3.974)
prl rorv--                                                         6,1DB           9,687        12.818           16,741          24,803          29,291
Pivate ou-gr-te d                                                    8,182           9,592        11,100           13,006          16,152          15,864
lInd,bi.rae.d ebt (poblic o-Ly)                                        2,524           3,761          6,617            8,290          10085         12,429
Gron.. Dlnborosent
Total noos  dlnb-venent of M&LT loans                                  7,254           6,912          B.076            9,242          14,927         12,181
Publ-c and poblicly gone-a-eed                                       2,937           3,717         4,837             5,380         10,133           8,760
Offtilal export credits                                              408             398            393             180             466             399
lBRD                                                                 247             250           173              299             275             301
Other eUntiloteral                                                   139             119            ill              92             136             207
lri-t~~~~~~~ -  - ~~~~2,143                                       2,958         4,160            4,809           9,256           7,8533
Private  o-gnretd                                                    4,317           3,195         3,239             3,862          4,794           3,421
Debt Service
Total debt sevive pay-nts                                              3,290           3,670          4,797            6.163          8,017          10,485        12,986
ater-t or                                                           (1,370)         (1,498)        11809)           (2,1033        )2,69)          (4,1042        6,004)
Paymentsa .   of foporte  4 NSF                                            38.8           37-6           43.0             46.2            57.2            62,7         61.0
Payments as 7. of GNP                                                       3.1            2.9            3.3              3.7             4.2            5.1           5.7
Boerage  nterest rate on tne gosetteed   e.... (7.)-                       10.6             8.7           7.6              8.3             9.9            11.2
Officin .a.ouce                                                          7.0             8.0            7.9              8.0             7.5            8.3
A-rg  ..atrilty of non gacr-eteed   n.osn                                  10.9             9.0          11,2              9.9            10.0            11.5
OffIcial .o..ce                                                         14.6            18.4           16.3             16.4           14.4            14.1
Pri-ate,ooroe                                                            9.7             6.9            9.2              8.7             9.4           11.1
IBRD Eop..s.e
I0RD DOD/total DOD   )                                                      5.0            4.7            4.               4.1             3.5             3.6
IBD dleborsements/total groen d-nb-rse.ents (7.)                           3.4            3.6            2.1              3.2             1.8            2.5
IBFD debt  dev bicn/stntl aebt ceroace OP.)                                 2.4            2.5            2.7              3.2             2.6            2.0
An 7. at total debr o--standing
at eGd of.fooember 1979
Debt Structure
Matrity t tr-cture of debt oatstaodig                                                                      6t.3
M.trilties doe  it6thin 5 yeart                                                                           91.6
lmt.t-itl-s de oithis 10 ypears
1/   Entlmato
2)   E-cludiog re-ti-nsted profits
3/   Enclodiog dollar -al-ation ndjustmeets and sneettiatiom  of domestit gold
4)   Inclading gold. nod dol3Ar v-luatien  d)Asmn,tnts
57     Goods only
4I   D-tll.nan-nliable
7/   Publir debt oto                                                                                                                                 Apr11 23, 1981



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty one loans fully disbursed                                    1,691.3
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0           0.7
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0          10.6
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0          20.1
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5          11.6
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0           9.1
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0          22.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0          27.1
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0          31.0
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0           7.4
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0          17.7
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0             8.9
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0          39.1
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0          22.0
1300   1976  Eletrobras                          Power                50.0           8.1
1302   1976  Brazil                              Nutrition            19.0          12.7
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply         40.0           7.4
1317   1976  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        83.0          83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                           Power                82.0          25.2
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais               Rural Development  42.0            15.7
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           64.0          37.6
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do               Fertilizer           55.0           3.0
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                              Education            32.0          24.6
1488   1977  Brazil                              Rural Development  17.0            12.9
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Sewerage            110.0          95.7
1537   1978  Brazil                              Rural Development  24.0            20.7
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                          Power               130.0         104.9
1557   1978  Brazil                              Roads               114.0          98.9
1562   1978  COPESUL                             Petrochemicals       85.0          35.3
1563   1978  Brazil                              Urban Transport    88.0            61.3
1568   1978  Brazil                              Agric. Extension  100.0            87.4



-31-                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE UF PAY?!ENT9 1010)0)81 CAPITAL AND DEBT
(nllitess US$ atooureent prlress)
Popuiation:        12.9 milliOn (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:   US$1,687 (1979)
ACTUIAL                                                                                       PROJECTED
1970           1975            1976            1977            1978            1979           198/             19-)            .992         PRJT83           i-ho
Balaonce' 8 Parments
Ne   xot   f go,dtaods.o.....                    -99          -,7              608            --137           -3,999          -9,774       -12,7329           -11:,789        -11,4211         -9,974          -7,155
Net exports of goods  and                             -5S           (S 6  )(2     (10 127         1412 170)       (12,6599)        19,744        (20,13)2           24 620          29 431          35,193         42,244
xmot-s o  good                                      (2,507)        12,210)        (17.983)        (12,073)        (13,683)        1] q          (22,961)            26,032          28.579          31, 37          33,034
Net Eactor IncoL  e                                   -330          -1,735          -2,189         -2,558          -3,257          -4,740         -7,300            -8,347         -10,031         -11,536        -12,002
(of which isteess  payments)                      (-284)        (-1,498)        (-1,809)        (-2,103)       (_ 2,69P5       (-4,104)       (-6,004)          (-6,979)        (-8,673)       (-10,192)       1-11.498)
Net -on-ta-tor set-i-es                               -485          -1,429          -1,574         -1,576          -1,718          -2,327         -2,200            -2,030          -2,251          -2.495          -2,7b2
Net I rIsoers                                              21               2               1           -                 72              17           150                 41              50            950               0
os.nrsnr  accossnt baissoe                              _6)           -6, 700         -6.017         -4,037          -1,927          -9,757        -12179            -11,748         -11.371          -9,923          -7,104
Uce   r--     esceses                                     92             892             959             810            906           2,200          1,202             1,736           1.967           2 ,2 26         7,923
049t lioa sta t                                          767           3,7b6           5,023           4,631          8,819           4,995          5,451            11,991          11,585          10,370           '910
Seajorlonal soo[oe                                    (833)         (1,400)         (2,052)        (2,648:         (2,793)         (2.738)        22,881)           (3,794)         (3,948)         (4,173)         :4.060)
Financia,1 credits                                    (566)         (4,524)        (9,9809         (6,118)        (11,312)         :8,808)        (9,570)          (15,646)        (16,151)        t15,5191       (15,454)
A-ortcoatto.                                         (-632)        (-2,1729        7-3.9091       (-4,1359        (-5,286)        (-69551)       (-7,000)          (-7,449)        (-8,514)        (-9,321)      (-11,604)
-rsilan loses abrnod (set:                              -                197            -248             267           -358            -596            568            .1,082          -1,442          -1,918          -27,21
Othe-  capital na..1                                     240           1,295           2,627            _507            440             -61          1,459              -               -               -
CboooecIn re.ervet  (-ooortase :-                       -545             950          -2,344            -630         -3,880           3,219          3499               -897            -739            -755            -799
Internatlonsal Resotnes/                               1,142           4,036           6,544          7,256          11,126           9,688          b,911             7,808           8,547           9,301          10,:"99
Reserves Rs months 06 Imports-/                             9.5             3.9             6.3            7,              10.4            6.5            3.6               3.6                            3.6             3.6
ACTUAL
1974           1925            1976            1977            1978            1979          1980
totesna1 Debt
Totsl debt o- - dtsning tod diabonsed                                 17,576          23,200        28,344           34,440          46,309          50,956        56,407-
Poblic and poblicly go-ansoeed                                       9,390         13,608         17,211           21,434          30 157          35,092
Oftt_ialsoor_e                                                    3 276           3,911          4,393            4.693          59354            5,801
lORD                                                             (871)         (1,093$        (1.217)          (1,413)         (1,6921         71,827)
Other                                                          (2,405)         (2.816)        (0,176)          (3,2BO)         (3,752)         (3.974)
Prioate souece                                                    6,118           9,692         12,818           16 741          24,803          29.291
Privateonon-guaeanseed                                              8,182           9,592         11,100           13 006          16 152          15 964
U2,di.br-ed debt (pblio o-ly)                                          2,524           3,761          6,b7           8,290          10,085          12,429
Gross Disburs-ent
Total gross disb-rnenont of M        LT leans                         7,254           6,912         8.076             9.242         14,927          12.181
Public and publicly goaranteed                                       2,937           3,717         4,837            5,389          10,133           8,760
Otficial expoet oredits                                              408             398           393              180             466             399
IBRD                                                                 247            250            173              299             275             301
Other -1to1arena2                                                    139             119           111               92             136             207
Private source                                                    2,143           2,950          4,161            4,809           9,256           7,853
trivate-noo-oarnnteed                                                4,317          3,195          3,239            3.862           4,794           3,421
lebt Service
Tetal debt seeoooe paryent                                             3,290           3,670         4,797            6,163           8,017          10,485        12,986
interest (net)                                                      (1,320)        (1,498)        (1,809)          (2,103)         (2694)          (4,104)       (6,004)
Par -ents as 2. nf  oporte & SFS                                          38.8            37.6          43.0             46.2            57.2            62.7          61.0
Payents as Y. of GNP                                                       3.1             2.9            3.3              3.7            4.2             5.1           5.7
Average i..     erst rate os oab gn*rnteed loans (7.)-                    10.6             8.7            7.6              8.3             9.9           11.2
OnolaIl. snor:e                                                          7.0             8.0           7.9              8.0             7.5             8.3
A.nerage. ntonlty Pf new goseanteed l-aoe                                  10.9            9.0           11.2              9.9            10.0           11.5
Official snorts                                                         14.6            18.4          16.3             16.4            14.4            14.1
Pr-oatetseot                                                             9.7             6.9           9.2              8.7             9.4            11.1
IBRD EOnnotre
IRRD UCe/torsl 1D8  (5)                                                     5.0            4.7            4.3              4.1             3.5             2.6
08R8 disb-nseneets/total grass disb-rsmrentn                                3.4            3.6            2.1              3.2             1.8            2.3
InRD debt ser-i-e-total debt se-i-e  (1)                                   2.4             2.5            2.7              3.2             2.6            2 0
Aa 7. of total debt o-tts.ndisg
It Rnd ol,foeembee 1979
Debt Strotusre
Msaturity strantnre of debt notatanstieg                                                                    6b.93
Mtaturities dot titbin 0 pears                                                                           92.b
Naterities doe vithin 10 years
1/   Istsmate
27     xcloding re-mvested peolfts
31   Exnloding dollar  aluat-os adJoutmenst  and m-etieation of d-estic gold
*/   In_inding gold, and dalla1   -tloatioe ad7s.tsents
5/     Goods only
6/   DePsbl    ax       yio l8able
7!   Poblin debt only                                                                                                                                April 23, 1901



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty one loans fully disbursed                                    1,691.3
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0           0.7
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0          10.6
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0          20.1
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5          11.6
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0           9.1
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0          22.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0          27.1
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0          31.0
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0           7.4
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0          17.7
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0             8.9
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0          39.1
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0          22.0
1300   1976  Eletrobras                          Power                50.0           8.1
1302   1976  Brazil                              Nutrition            19.0          12.7
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply         40.0           7.4
1317   1976  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        83.0          83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                           Power                82.0          25.2
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais               Rural Development  42.0            15.7
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           64.0          37.6
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do               Fertilizer           55.0           3.0
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                              Education            32.0          24.6
1488   1977  Brazil                              Rural Development  17.0            12.9
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Sewerage            110.0          95.7
1537   1978  Brazil                              Rural Development  24.0            20.7
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                          Power               130.0         104.9
1557   1978  Brazil                              Roads               114.0          98.9
1562   1978  COPESUL                             Petrochemicals       85.0          35.3
1563   1978  Brazil                              Urban Transport    88.0            61.3
1568   1978  Brazil                              Agric. Extension  100.0            87.4



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0           31.4
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              81.8
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0              97.6
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum              98.0          55.4
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   26.0            24.7
1720    1979  Brazil                          Urban Development   70.0            69.6
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power               109.0         105.9
1728    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   40.0            37.9
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation           28.0          25.0
1730    1979  Brazil                          Roads                110.0         109.8
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                 Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                            Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport    159.0           159.0
1850 /1 1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           139.0         139.0
1867 /1 1980  Brazil                          Education             32.0          32.0
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   63.0            62.9
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                       Power                125.0         125.0
1924 /1 1981  Brazil                          Rural Development   56.0            56.0
1939 /1 1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                 54.0          54.0
1965 /2 1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
Total                                              5,476.8 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 727.6
Total now outstanding                              4,749.2
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            44.7             1.1
Total now held by Bank                             4,748.1
Total undisbursed                                                2,621.4
/1   Not yet effective.
72   Not yet signed.
/3   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, a loan of US$180
million for a Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project was approved
on April 21, 1981.



- 34 -                                                ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                  Obligor                                        Type of Business           Amount in US3 million
Year                                                                                                           Loans    Equity    Total
1957                Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                        Electrical Equipment         2.00        -         2.00
1958                Olinkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                             Pulp and Paper               1.20        -         1.20
1958                D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, s. A.                           Automotive Parts             0.45       -          0.45
1958                Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A.                              Motor Vehicles               2.45        -         2.45
TIdutrtia e Coreteio
1959                Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                  Cement                       1.20       -          1.20
1959                Champion Celulose, S. A.                                      Pulp                         4.00        -         4.00
1966/1968/1972    Aces Villares, S. A.                                            Stael                        8.00      1.93        9.93
1966/1969           Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S. A,                           Pulp and Paper               3.78      3.41        7.19
1967/1972           Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                     Fertilizers                  8.22      3.03      11.25
de Fertilizantes
1969                Petroquamica U=iao, S. A.                                     Petrochemicals               5.50      2.88        8.38
1970                Poliolefinas, S. A. Induatria e Comercio                      Petrochecicals               5.50      2.88        9.38
1971                Oxiteno, S. A. I=dustria e Comercio                           Petrochemicals               4.60      1.44       6.04
1971                Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                     Pulp                         4.90       -         4.90
1972/1975           Companhia de Cimento Nactonal de Minas                        Cement                      29.14      3.20      32.34
1973/1974/         Companhia Siderurgica da Gusnabara - COSIGUA                   Steel                       76.97     11.22      98.19
1973                Capital Market Development Fund -FUMCAP                       Capital Market               5.00        -         5.00
Development
1973/1978           Empress de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                        Nickel Mining emd           85.00      8.34       93.34
Minerais - CODE2IN, S. A.                                     Refioing
1974                Industrias Villaces, S. A.                                    Elevators and                6.00        -         6.00
Industrial Equipment
1974               Fabrics do Tecidos Tatuape, S. A.                              Textiles                    31.00       -        31.00
1975/1979           Capuava Carbonas I=dustrias Ltd.                              Carbon Black                 6.18      1.19        7.37
1975                Omiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                       Petrochemicals              10.00        -       10.00
1976                Santista Industria - Tentil do Nordeste, S. A.                Textiles                     6.45      1.00        7.45
1976/1980          Tecanor S. A. - lextil Catarinense do Nordeste                 Textiles                    16.20       -        16.20
1977               FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                               Iron and Aluminum           20.00       -        20.00
Castings
1977               Mineracao Rie do Norte S. A.                                   Mining                      15.00       -        15.00
1978                Cimetal Siderurgia s. A.                                      Iron and Steel               7.0      3.0        10.0
1979                Volvo do Bcasil Mutores e Veicules S. A.                      Motor Vehicles              60.00    5.00         65.00
1980                Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                             Ready-made Garments          2.00      -           2.00
1980                Dende do Pars 8/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,                    Palm-Oil                     3.50    1.00         4.50
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas
1980                Villaces I.dustrias de B.se S. A. - VIBASA                    Item ard Steel               5.00      -           5.00
1980                PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                   Chemicals and               15.00    2.00        17.00
Petrochemicals
1980                Deatilaria Cianorte S. A.                                     Chenicals and                 -       0.25         0.25
Petrochemicals
1980                Sotave Amazonia Quimica e Mineral S/A                         Fertilizers                 16.00    4.00         20.00
1980                Polisul Petroqu.mica                                          Chemicals and               15.00    5.00         20.00
Petrochemikals
1981                Brasilpar                                                     Money and Capitol
Markets                             1.50        1.50
Total Gross Conmitm-nto                                                                  482.24   62.27       544.51
Ltos Cancellations, T-cminatioo-, Ropaymonto and Sales                                   334.02    11.57      341.04
Total Cofmit-mnor  Now Mold by IFC                                                       148,17   50.70       198.67
Total Undisbursed                                                                         82.79   13.07         95.86



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
As of March 31, 1981, there were 46 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
756        Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
After long delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is now expected by April 1981. The financial
condition of the port of Santos has worsened because tariff increases
have not covered increases in costs. Price escalation for civil
works continues to increase the project cost. All of the increase
is in local currency and is being covered by additional allocations
from Brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS. The final disburse-
ment is expected shortly. A project completion report is scheduled
for June 1981.
923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the generating units is
expected to be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due
to geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is about 39% over
the appraisal cost estimate, due mainly to a substantial increase in
the size of the transmission works and-to an increase in the cost of
civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Proposals for
some changes in project components and a postponement of the closing
date are being reformulated by the Government.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved significantly, further
improvement is necessary for it to be able to attain the targets
established in the loan documents.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks,
detailed engineering studies for road construction and road
rehabilitation are substantially completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and
Rio Grande do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the
72 weighing stations (Phase I) is suffering delays because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government. The
closing date originally December 31, 1979 has been postponed to
December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,025.0 million,
an increase of about 68% over the appraisal estimate. Savings in
the Bank loan are expected to result from the maxi-devaluation of
the cruzeiro in November 1979. CSN is expected to propose to the
Bank to utilize these savings to finance additional equipment
related to energy conservation. The Project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1982, about 30 months behind schedule.
Despite operating performance near nominal capacity production levels,
CSN is in a very tight financial situation and reports through
August 1980 showed a continuing deteriorating trend in CSN's
liquidity. CSN's cash flow was well below budget for the same
period. CSN is presently unable to meet its financial covenants
in the Bank loan agreement, and this situation is unlikely to be
remedied unless SIDERBRAS provides additional equity funds to
replace short- and long-term borrowing and the Government imple-
ments price increases to bring steel prices more in line with
international prices. Unless these actions are taken further
delays may be expected in the implementation of the project which
remains, however, economically justified.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. The latest capital cost estimate is US$1861.5
million, an increase of about 53% over the appraisal estimate. As
a result of the cruzeiro maxi devaluation in November 1979, about
US$16 million of the Bank loan will be saved and COSIPA has proposed
that the Bank finance additional energy conservation equipment with
these savings. This matter is under consideration. The Project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1981, about 30 months behind
schedule but may slip further on account of uncertainty regarding
the availability of sufficient counterpart funds. Despite operating
performance above nominal capacity, the Company's financial outlook
remains critical due to the narrow margin between revenues and
operating costs. COSIPA is presently unable to meet its financial
covenants in the Bank loan agreement, and this situation is un-
likely to improve unless SIDERBRAS provides additional equity funds
to replace short- and long-term borrowing and the Government imple-
ments price increases to bring steel prices more in line with
international steel prices. Despite these difficulties, the project
remains economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. A series of contract amendments recently
signed by CODEVASF should result in a more rapid progress of
civil works and in accelerated disbursements. The Bank has
agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to replace works previously
planned for certain areas with the rehabilitation of several
flood plain areas which suffered heavily from floods in 1979.
Land acquisition has been carried out in all flood plains but
one, which is to be expropriated in 1981. CODEVASF is taking
steps to improve the maintenance of the channels and pumping
stations in the irrigation system.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. FEPASA's operations
continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic has increased
25% in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced its operating
cost by 12% in real terms in the past year due to reduction in staff
and improvement of train operations. FEPASA's financial position,
however, continues to remain weak because of its high debt service.
FEPASA and the Sao Paulo state government are preparing investment
and financial plans to put FEPASA on a sound financial footing. The
Bank is monitoring this process closely.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage,
support to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and
inland fisheries. Serious droughts in 1979 and 1980, coupled
with delays in the release of funds, have slowed down the imple-
mentation of Phase II.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Fifteen sub-loans involving twelve different
states have been approved, committing the full amount of the loan.
Construction has been completed in two states, Goias and Bahia.
Construction is underway in five additional states, Minas Gerais,
Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraiba, Alagoas and Santa Catarina. Twenty-
five percent of the physical work foreseen under the project, about
1,600 kms, is now completed. Sub-loans are fixed in ORTN terms
(Indexed Accounting System), but the ORTN lost about 40% of its
purchasing power in 1980, and the sub-borrowers (states) are having
to finance all cost overruns. This is causing serious difficulties
to the states. The Bank is reviewing with Government the financial
participation of the involved agencies in order to ease the financial
burden on the states and to maintain the implementation schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Several restrictions placed on hiring of new
staff, including local consultants, import restrictions and reduc-
tions in the number of staff participating in either long- or
short-term training programs constrained project implementation in
1980. These controls which have been instituted as part of the
government's economic stabilization program have adversely affected
the implementation of this project. These restrictions have recently
been partially waived for this project, allowing progress in project
implementation to resume.



- 3q -
ANNEX II
Page 8
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for con-
nection of low income households have been widely exceeded. Sub-
stantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project should respond better to the Government's
institutional priorities; its progress would be assessed in the
field in late Spring 1981.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete. The Closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981) commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. However,
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and
Government's policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated to
the actual inflation rate have so far rendered the balance of this
loan unusable on the conditions set out in the Loan Agreement.
However, the Government has recently indicated its intention to
follow a revised monetary correction system under which the level
of indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation and which
is more in line with the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrange-
ments for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction have
recently been agreed with the Government. Accordingly. new commit-
ments under this loan are now being approved, and it is expected
that disbursements can begin shortly.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
fourteen months. Commercial production is now expected to begin
in March 1982. The estimated cost to complete the project is still
in line with the budget estimate. The closing date for this loan
was postponed to May 31, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been physically completed, and
the facilities are being tested and commissioned. The Closing
Date has been postponed to December 31, 1981 to allow for completion
of trial runs before final payments are made on certain equipment
and service contracts.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of most training centers is proceeding well.
The delay in the acquisition of suitable sites for hotel schools in
Brasilia and Rio de Janeiro, has compelled the Government to request
substitution of a new hotel school, and of several industrial and
commercial training centers, for these two hotel schools. The
requisite amendments to the loan documents are being formalized.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and land purchase has now started for a first
small group of farmers. Agricultural credit has suffered from
shortage of local bank funds. Physical and social infrastructure



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties in
administering the health component and some delays in carrying
out the water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is well advanced, and is expected to be completed in
accordance with the appraisal targets.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation has
improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra-
tion. However, the pace of execution of several project components
is still slow.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEMIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution-was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEMIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remunerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcasao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980. However, since then works have been
suspended because of financial constraints imposed by the federal
government. Rescheduling of the works is being discussed with the
Government. The maintenance program in the state of Parana is
progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station program
will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR) has been
completed and the effects monitored. Project completion could be
delayed by one year.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in October 1982, about 10 months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Porto Alegre sub-
project is the furthest advanced.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project imple-
mentation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now fairly satisfactory, and
federal funds are being provided punctually. Extension and land
titling services have been improved. At this time, lack of land
purchase credit is the main difficulty in achieving balanced progress
of the project. The quality of feeder roads is not up to standard,
but supervision of construction is being strengthened. The health
component is proceeding smoothly; however, the education and water
supply components are far behind schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met.
Difficulties are being encountered in meeting the sites and services
targets, and the National Housing Bank is preparing a proposal that
will offer a solution.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
also been approved and construction is underway. However, because
of initial difficulties, the project may be completed with about a
one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding with no major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very close
to first year targets and are exceeding second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is already showing results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721       COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to continuing deays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and the project calls for close supervision.
The agency responsible for the village water supply component
has failed to perform adequately and has to be replaced by another
entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study have run
into opposition within the state and their implementation is
uncertain at the moment.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. An acceleration of disbursements should result
from contracts signed for the construction of irrigation and
drainage networks in three flood plain areas. The new CODEVASF



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
regional directorate has rapidly and competently taken charge of
protection, irrigation and drainage works. There is a continuing
need, however, to strengthen CODEVASF's capacity to supervise
assistance provided by various state and federal agencies, and
to follow-up on the implementation of the rice drying, storage
and processing component.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. Five sub-projects committing about twenty
percent of the loan have been approved which will benefit the states
of Pernambuco, Ceara, Espiritu Santo, Acre, and Sergipe. Seventeen
other sub-project applications have been received by the National
Development Bank (BNDE). The feasibility studies for eight of these
sub-projects are at an advanced stage of preparation. As for Loan
1207-BR, the implementation of this project will depend on suitable
measures being adopted to ease the financial burden on the sub-
borrowers (states) considering loss of purchasing power of the ORTN
especially in 1980.
1822       Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1823       Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. The project has experienced initial
delays, but two of the three subprojects have now been declared
eligible for disbursement and procurement is now underway.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
ALCOHOL AND BIOMASS ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         Approximately 8 months (from
November 1979 to June 1980)
(b)  Project prepared by:                   Executive Secretariat of the
National Alcohol Commission (CENAL)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank
and first Bank mission to consider
the Project:                          November 1979
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:         July 1980
(e) Completion of Negotiations:             March 1981
(f) Planned deadline for effectiveness:  August 31, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  CENAL to design and implement a Monitoring and Evaluation System
for the National Alcohol Program (PROALCOOL), and to exchange views
with the Bank at least once a year on its findings; presentation of
detailed designs for the monitoring and evaluation systems and
employment of consultants acceptable to the Bank are conditions of
effectiveness (para. 65);
(b)  Subprojects to be evaluated in accordance with the agreed appraisal
criteria and in accordance with relevant Brazilian legislation;
borrower to exchange views with the Bank at least annually on the
adequacy of the appraisal criteria for PROALCOOL (para. 60);
(c)  Appraisal criteria for PROALCOOL to be modified, by December 31,
1981, to include provision for economic evaluation of subprojects
(para. 60);
(d)  Borrower to ensure that subprojects included in the project conform to
satisfactory environmental standards (para. 55);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Credit subsidies under PROALCOOL to be reduced and eliminated
pari passu with the reduction and elimination of subsidies in other
related credit programs (para. 77);
(f) retail prices of alcohol to the consumer to be maintained at levels
to reflect at least the economic production cost (para. 77);
(g) ex-factory prices of alcohol to the producer to be maintained
at a level sufficient to cover debt service and other costs and
to provide a reasonable return on equity; such prices to be
adjusted periodically to reflect changes in valuation of assets,
production costs (including input prices) and interest rates
on loans under PROALCOOL (para. 77);
(h) CENAL to carry out an initial impact study with the assistance
of consultants and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, such study to be completed by December 31, 1981 (para. 64);
(i) Banco Central to obtain prior Bank approval for first ten produc-
tion subprojects and all demonstration projects to be submitted
for Bank financing (paras. 60 and 62);
(j) STI and FINEP to obtain prior Bank approval for any individual
technology development sub-project with an estimated cost larger
than US$1 million (para. 62); and
(k) STI and FINEP to agree with the Bank on their projected annual
program of technology development subprojects (para. 62).



I BRD 15334
VENEZOL                                                                       3-NOVEMBER 1900
(         /: Bo Vis=         ' \SUR I 'M3' @U-[NAME                 A         AND BI       ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COLOMBIA       \AR                                                                                               A    S (JUNE 30,1980)
242  Acoht$FrOdLlOfl apacty by stole -
capa   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~mllo im prya sof Jwse,1980
A        z                  M         GROS O         G   / {AHI
X,  G t :tA   ' _                                 / a'~S A                           t U
[* - XC % 0 -   N ~ 4  M                             .X4 S                     X -   oS
oj    toV c
60dor ~   Maorrod
,~~~ -                                                                                                      -   Sla 0  |X0 te bas sn;d,,ie-0=M  z s
00";; 0309 /f 0A R    ;G EN liN A;             RI  G '                                                    -    .-         p.-Irsternalionol  boundazries
ko~~~~~OII                                                                      A S+Al   ' '>>t v'   to eee)E 
MArO -y                                                      8tRO0 Bel20o0  40  0
V~~~~~~~~~~~~oioi
URUGU caY 5po'5
t  JL ~ ~   ~    ~    5bodJMl f, 
ON                                 -                                                  30                      30~'go~u



