LOAN NUMBER 1989 BR
Project Agreement
(Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FINANCIADORA DE ESTUDOS E PROJETOS
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1989 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  / CL-        , 1981, betweenl
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECO  TRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and FINANCIADORA DE ESTUDOS E PROJETOS (herein-
after called FINEP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two hundred
fifty million dollars ($250,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that, inter
alia, FINEP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth; and
(B) part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be transferred to FINEP on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS FINEP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.0..(a) FINEP shall cause that portion of Part B of
the Project financed by FINEP to be carried out with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, and industrial practices.


﻿-2-
(b) FINEP shall: (i) out of the proceeds of the Loan trans-
ferred to it by the Borrower, make Credits for Technology Sub-
projects on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) appraise all proposed Technology Sub-projects in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of the Loan Agreement, FINEP shall furnish Technology
Sub-projects to the Bank for approval or for authorization for
withdrawals to be made from the Loan Account.
(b) When submitting to the Bank for approval a Credit for
a Technology Sub-project estimated to cost $1,000,000 or more,
FINEP shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satis-
factory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Beneficiary and an appraisal of the Technology Sub-project to be
financed thereunder (including a description of the expenditures
for such Technology Sub-project proposed to be financed by FINEP
and an appraisal of the Technology Sub-project); (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Credit; and (iii) such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by FINEP for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Credit not subject
to the Bank's approval shall: (i) contain a summary description
of the Beneficiary and the Technology Sub-project to be financed
(including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan); and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Credit.
(d) Except as the Bank and FINEP shall otherwise agree,
FINEP shall submit applications for approval of Technology Sub-
projects pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this
Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section on or before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.03. (a) FINEP undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, any Credit will be made on terms whereby
FINEP shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Bank and FINEP, including, the right of FINEP
to: (i) require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Technology Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stan-
dards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (A) the


﻿-3-
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also
of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services,
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them;
and (B) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Technology Sub-project; (iii) inspect, by
itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Technology Sub-project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require
that: (A) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
(B) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to
replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as
the Bank or FINEP shall reasonably request relating to the fore-
going and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Beneficiary; and (vi) suspend or terminate the
right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under
its contract with FINEP.
(b) FINEP shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Technology Sub-project financed by it in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Bank and FINEP; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) FINEP shall furnish to the Bank quarterly
progress reports, in form and substance satsfactory to the Bank,
on the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan made available by
the Borrower to FINEP, the Credits made by FINEP, the Technology
Sub-projects financed by such Credits and the Beneficiaries
responsible for the carrying out of such Sub-projects and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) FINEP shall, until the amount of the Loan allocated to
FINEP has been fully committed, furnish to the Bank, not later


﻿than November 30 in each year, FINEP's proposed program for the
following year for Technology Sub-projects, such program to be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.05. FINEP shall fully cooperate with the Borrower
in the preparation of the report required under Section 3.10 of
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) FINEP shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Part B of the Project financed by it, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) FINEP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress
of Part B of the Project financed by it, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by FINEP of its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) FINEP shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part B of the
Project financed by FINEP and of each Technology Sub-project
financed by FINEP (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of FINEP and shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(b) FINEP shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures in respect of Part B of
the Project financed by it on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures.
Section 3.02. FINEP shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to


﻿-5-
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, includ-
ing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expen-
ditures and records referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account in respect of Part B of the Project on the basis
of certificates of expenditures have been used to make payments
for goods received, or works or services performed, and that such
goods, works and services were eligible for financing under
this Agreement and were used in the carrying out of said Part of
the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FINEP and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of FINEP thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify FINEP thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿- 6 -
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America,
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For FINEP:
Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos
Avenida Rio Branco, 124
CEP 20042 Rio de Janeiro
Brazil
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of FINEP, may be taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as the President shall
designate in writing, and FINEP shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEFT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FINANCIADORA DE ESTUDOS E PROJETOS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /2i      day of       , 198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


