Report No. PID8041
Project Name                     Uganda-Second Agricultural Research and...
Training Project (ARTP II)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       UGPA59127
Borrower                         Republic of Uganda
Implementing Agency              National Agricultural Research Organization
(NARO)
Dr. Joseph Mukiibi, Director General
P. 0. Box 296
Entebbe, Uganda
Tel. 256-41-321431
Fax. 256-41-321070
Date PID Prepared                March 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         November 1998
Projected Board Date             May 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background:   Uganda, with a per capita income of
about $320 per annum is among the poorest countries in the world. After the
end of the civil war in 1987, the Government has been implementing both a
reconstruction program and an economic reform program. Both efforts have
been successful. Economic growth has averaged 5.6 percent a year. Eight
percent gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate was recorded in 1994, the
highest in twenty years. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy
accounting for 41 percent of the GDP and over 90 percent of the exports since
1990. Eighty nine percent of the population is rural, and 80 percent of the
employed household population is engaged in agriculture. Agricultural output
comes most exclusively from about 2.5 million smallholder farmers; 80 percent
of them have less than 2 hectares of land each. Only tea and sugar are grown
in large estates. The agriculture sector has grown rapidly in recent years.
It increased from a 0.1 percent average annual growth rate between 1983/84
and 1986/87 to an average annual growth of 5.6 percent between 1987/88 and
1989/90. This significant improvement is partly due to the end of the armed
conflict, the restoration of peace and order in the country, and partly due
to the implementation of a sound economic reform program. The performance of
the sector in subsequent years, i.e., 1990/91 to 1993/94 slowed to an average
growth of 3.5 percent per annum due to drought and recovered in 1998 to 8.1
percent from 1.9 percent during the previous year.
2.      Output, especially of food crops, has steadily increased but the rate of
growth has been slowing as the limits set by existing income and technology
levels are being approached. Several strategies, including national research
and extension programs, are currently being pursued to shift the technology
and income frontiers, but the pace of progress is impeded by institutional
capacity constraints. The two decades of instability and mismanagement have
led to human capital flight (from both the private and public sectors), and a
deterioration in the public sector's performance.
3.      The National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) is primarily



responsible for agricultural research and development in Uganda. It works
closely with the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries
(MAAIF) which is the primary agency with responsibilities for animal health,
farmer training, regulatory and promotional services, and providing oversight
for the extension services being implemented through the district. Other
public and private agencies are involved in forestry, environmental issues,
cooperatives, and marketing of specific crops. Coordination among the
various sectoral agencies is less than optimal, mainly because of capacity
constraints, poor facilities and distorted incentives at various levels.
4.      Project Objectives:   The Agricultural Research and Training Project -
Phase II (ARTP II) would be the second phase in a long-term program of
assistance to agricultural research in Uganda and would continue to support
technology development and dissemination, consistent with the Government's
Policy on Poverty Eradication and the Plan for the Modernization of
Agriculture (PMA). The development objectives of the project would be to
increase the efficiency and productivity of the dominant crop, livestock,
fisheries and forestry farming systems of Uganda; increase farm household
income and improve family welfare; and enhance the management of natural
resources for the protection of the environment.
The specific objectives of the project would be to: (a) transfer
relevant technologies and indigenous knowledge, and improved cultural
practices to farmers' fields, and promote their adoption, (b) ensure that
technologies being developed are addressing actual problems of farmers, (c)
establish and operate the zonal agricultural research and development
centers, (d) reinforce NARO's technical and in-service training support for
the district-level extension services; and (e) strengthen NARO's
effectiveness and efficiency in technology transfer, including smallholder
seed production and distribution systems, integrated pest management, and
soil fertility and management.
5.      Project Description:   The project would provide support for technology
development and adaptation programs required to increase production and
incomes of smallholder farmers, expand NARO's outreach, extension and
technology dissemination functions, and further institutional development and
reforms of the national agricultural research system to strengthen NARO's
role in technology transfer and dissemination to give greater attention to
the transfer and adoption of superior technologies. During the initial years
of project implementation, emphasis will be given to strengthening NARO's
capacity to monitor, evaluate and determine economic impact of improved
technologies, develop and refine the implementation strategy for the
outreach/technology dissemination program. National and district level
consultations will take stock of the priority constraints of the dominant
production systems of Uganda, and identification of on-the-shelf technologies
or indigenous knowledge to address these constraints. The project would
finance procurement of goods, services and civil works, demand driven
training, and incremental operating costs.
6.      Project Financing:   Project costs are tentatively estimated at about
US$40 million. IDA would finance 90 percent of the estimated project costs,
and the Government would finance the balance of 10 percent. The possibility
of parallel financing by other donors for some of the components will be
explored.
-2-



7.      Participatory Approaches:   Project preparation will follow a
participatory process to ensure full Government ownership. The proposed
project will be designed by a Ugandan project preparation team comprising
senior officials from NARO, Ministry of Finance, Makerere University and the
MAAIF. The national project preparation team was involved in the preparation
of the project concept document and the project appraisal document. A
consultation with stakeholders will be carried out to validate project
activities and identify priority areas that require attention. During
project implementation, stakeholders will be involved in determining the work
program and budget of research institutes and centers, and in identifying
assistance that would be required by the district extension services.
8.      Project Implementation:   The arrangements in place under ARTP will be
appropriately modified to accommodate the emerging zonal institutional
structure, national coordination of extension, decentralized research
management, and coordination of donors. The Director General (DG) of NARO,
reporting to the NARO Board, would be the manager and coordinator of the
national research program financed by the Government and various donors.
The DG will be assisted by a project management team (PMT), comprising
representatives from NARO operating units, in planning project activities,
implementation, monitoring and reporting of progress, of all agricultural
research programs/projects of the Uganda National Agricultural Research
System (NARS). The PMT would provide general oversight over the national
research programs, deal with routine matters, and advise the DG of
implementation issues that require immediate attention. Representatives
from MAAIF, donors and other stakeholders will be invited to PMT meetings
as necessary.
9.      Project Sustainability:   In broad terms, sustainability of
agricultural research in Uganda depends on a continuation of the country's
transformation to a market-oriented economy, and the concomitant
realignment of the roles of the public and private sectors in research. An
essential aspect of sustainability will be the growing role of commodity
groups in providing research funds on a contract basis, and expanding base
of extra-budgetary incomes raised from cess/levies, enhanced incomes
generated by sale of station farm produce and services and incomes raised
through the NARO's consultancy services group. NARO also proposes to pilot
formulation of appropriate cost-sharing arrangements with clients who will
be involved in identification of problems and research priorities in
dominant production systems of essential food crops and other strategic
commodities. Under the proposed project, NARO will undertake a feasibility
study for the establishment of an endowment fund for research using IDA
funds, government and bilateral donor contributions, levies/cesses on
export crops, and income generated by NARO. The Fund's income would
provide incremental funding for recurrent operations and the ARDF.
10.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations:   There are several important
lessons learned from implementing ARTP and a number of agricultural research
and extension projects in Uganda and in neighboring countries. Some of these
are: (a) an enabling environment and a transparent incentive/reward system
are required to make researchers productive; (b) the concentration of
research institutes and centers in a particular part of the country, quite
distant from most of the farmers spread over all the agroecological zones,
has resulted in a lack of focus on the issues and problems of farmers which
are generally location (agro-ecological zone)-specific; (c) implementation of
- 3 -



research programs works better if management is decentralized; (d) greater
involvement of stakeholders in research planning and budgeting, including
research priority setting, budgeting and assessment of results obtained,
ensures the relevance of the research programs; (e) lack of access by farmers
to improved seeds lead to delayed adoption of improved varieties, (f)
monitoring and impact evaluation of research programs have been generally
neglected and need to be significantly improved; and (g) measures to ensure
sustainability of the national research program need to be given more
attention. These lessons have been taken into consideration in designing the
ARTP II.
11.     Poverty Category:   The improved technologies developed and disseminated
will have direct impact on alleviating the poverty of the main beneficiaries
of the project comprising the majority of poor, smallholder farmers in
Uganda, whose production and incomes are expected to increase by about 15
percent.
12.     Environmental Aspects:   The proposed operation is classified in
environmental category C. There are no major environmental issues
anticipated. The proposed operation would support research aimed
specifically at natural resource management by generating technologies that
will facilitate resource conservation and improve soil productivity. The use
of leguminous trees to promote soil and water conservation would be
introduced to farmers. Research programs financed under the project would
also focus on improving integrated pest management (IPM) techniques utilizing
biological agents. Research on pesticides is aimed at efficient use of these
inputs, particularly by minimizing pesticide use through integrated pest
management. The environmental impact of the project is therefore expected to
be strongly positive.
13.     Program Objective Categories:   The project would foster public sector
efficiency and effectiveness in the provision of services to the private
sector by improving the technology development and dissemination process, and
strengthening the linkages with the extension services, smallholder clients
and other stakeholders. The project will also support human resources
development in the agriculture sector.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Edgardo Quisumbing
Task Manager
(202) 473-4183
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 13, 1999.
- 4 -



