Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19144-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.1 million (US$26.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT (ARTP II)
April 9, 1999
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Negotiations)
Currency Unit = US$ = UShl,350
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADC                  Agricultural Development Center
ARDC                 Agricultural Research and Development Center
ARDF                 Agricultural Research and Development Fund
ARIS                 Agricultural Research Information System
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CAEC                 Continuing Agricultural Education Center (MU)
DANIDA               Danish International Development Agency
DAR                  Directorate of Animal Resources (MAAIF)
DCR                  Directorate of Crop Resources (MAAIF)
DFI                  District Farm Institutes
DFID                 Department for International Development (formerly ODA)
EU                   European Union
FORI                 Forestry Research Institute (NARO)
GOU                  Government of Uganda
GON                  Govemment of the Netherlands
JICA                 Japanese International Cooperation Agency
IDA                  International Development Association
MAAIF                Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MFPED                Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MGLSD                Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Development
MU                   Makerere University
NARO                 National Agricultural Research Organization
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
PPRC                 Program Planning and Review Committee (NARO)
UNFA                 Uganda National Farmers' Association
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: James W. Adams
Sector Manager: Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader: Edgardo Quisumbing



Uganda
Agricultural Research and Training Phase II
CONTENTS
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ....................                                                                   ................................................... 2
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (SEE ANNEX 1): ........................... 2
B: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .......................................................................                                                                                4
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................................                                                                                   4
(SEE ANNEX 2 FOR A DETAILED DESCRIPTION AND ANNEX 3 FOR A DETAILED COST BREAKDOWN):   .. 4
2.  KEY  POLICY  AND  INSTITUTIONAL  REFORMS SUPPORTED  BY  THE PROJECT: .........................                                                     ............................. 5
3.  BENEFITS AND  TARGET POPULATION: ....................................................................... 6
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS: .......................................................................                                                         6
C: STRATEGIC CONTEXT .......................................................................                                                                                          9
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) ....................................................................... 9
2. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: .......................................................................                                                           9
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES: ............................................. 10
D: PROJECT RATIONALE .......................................................................                                                                                        11
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION: .......................................................... 11
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES: ..................  11
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN PROPOSED PROJECT DESIGN: .............................................................. 12
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER  COMMITMENT AND  OWNERSHIP: ....................................................................... 13
5. VALUE-ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN  TSHS PROJECT: .........................................                                                ............................... 13
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS (SEE ANNEX 8) .......................................................................    14
1. ECONOMIC .......................................................................                                                                                             14
(SUPPORTED  BY  ANNEX  4): ........................................................................                                                                             14
2. FINANCIAL .......................................................................                                                                                           14
3. TECHNICAL: .......................................................................                                                                                          15
4. INSTITUTIONAL: .......................................................................                                                                                       16
5. SOCIAL: .......................................................................                                                                                             16
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT: ........................................................................ 16
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH: .......................................................................                                                                             17
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .......................................................................                                                                                 18
1. SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................................                                                                                      18
2. CRITICAL RISKS .......................................................................                                                                                       18
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS: .......................................................................                                                                      19
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS .......................................................................                                                                                      19
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS: .......................................................................                                                                           19
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .......................................................................                                                                             19
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ...................                                                                .................................................... 20



Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9       Concept Note on Relevant Research and Extension
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance
Map No.      IBRD 29987



Uganda
Agricultural Research and Training Phase II
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Date:
Country Director: James W. Adams                        Task Team Leader: Edgardo Quisumbing
Sector Manager: Sushma Ganguly
Project ID: PE-59127                                    Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Sector: Agriculture                                     Development
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:       Yes  [x ] No
Project Financing Data                 [    Loan    [x]    Credit   [I    Guarantee    [ ]    Other]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 26 million/SDR 19.1 million
Proposed terms:                           [x]  Multicurrency        [    Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):      10              []   Standard Variable    []   Fixed            [     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:         40
Commitment fee:            0.5 %
Service charge:            0.75 %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                  Local                Foreign              Total
Government                                              20.0                                      20.0
Cofinanciers                                            16.5                 9.5                  26.0
IDA                                                     21.4                 4.6                  26.0
Total                                                   57.9                 14.1                 72.0
Borrower: Government of Uganda
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries, Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and
Development, National Agnicultural Research Organization (NARO)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1999        2000        2001       2002    2003    2004  2005
Annual                                          4            5           5         4        3        3    2
Cumulative                                      4            9          14         18       21      24   26
Project implementation period: 6 years Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/1999  Expected closing date: 12/31/2005



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed Agricultural Research and Training Project - Phase II (ARTP II) would be the second phase
in a long-term program of assistance to agricultural research in Uganda and would continue to support
technology development and dissemination, consistent with the Government's Policy on Poverty
Eradication and the Plan for the Modermization of Agriculture (PMA). The development objectives of the
project would be to increase the efficiency and productivity of the dominant crop, livestock, fisheries and
forestry farming systems of Uganda; increase farm household income and improve family welfare; and
enhance the management of natural resources for the protection of the environment.
ARTP II would give increased emphasis to demand-driven, client-oriented research and promote the active
participation of stakeholders, especially farmers and the private agribusiness sector, in research planning,
implementation, and (beneficiary) impact assessment. The project will give priority to addressing the real
problems of the farmers so that research is focused on specific constraints of a particular production system.
During the first 2-3 years, the project would concentrate on moving on-the-shelf technologies existing at
research institutes into farmers' fields. In addition, indigenous knowledge would be identified and
disseminated as necessary. Examples of improved technologies and cultural practices which are available
include: (a) improved cultural management of Matoke to reduce the harmful effects of the Sigatoka disease,
banana weevil and nematodes, (b) the rapid multiplication of planting materials of many crops, e.g., mosaic
resistant cassava cultivars, high yielding clonal coffee, high yielding disease resistant Irish potato and sweet
potato varieties, through tissue culture and other techniques, (c) improved varieties of beans, sorghum,
cassava, groundnuts, sunflower, cotton, (d) village level on-farm storage structures for maize and other food
grains, (e) small farm implements designed for the smaller cattle of Uganda, e.g., the improved Ugandan
plow; hand shellers, hand threshers, and mechanical weeders, and (f) improved agroforestry technologies and
practices for harvesting, processing and utilizing products of conifer plantations.
The National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) would continue on-going high priority,
adaptive research which address specific production constraints and have a high potential of producing
significant benefits and impact, in a relatively short time. Diagnostic surveys of production constraints
carried out with extension staff and farmers would determine the adaptive research program to be carried
out in the districts. A campaign to widely disseminate and introduce improved technologies and cultural
practices will be carried out under the outreach, extension and technology dissemination program
involving the district extension service, farmers, NGOs, MAAIF and NARO. Some examples of
technologies which are close to maturity and could be moved to on-farm trials for verification include: (a)
superior varieties/cultivars of high yielding maize, sorghum, cassava, Irish potato, groundnuts, sweet
potato, millet, Sigatoka resistant banana, (b) improved aquaculture practices, (c) pheromones baits for the
biological control of banana weevils, (d) integrated pest management in cotton, and (e) biological control
of water hyacinth. Other research areas to be supported by the project will be identified during a series of
district and national level consultations between NARO and all the stakeholders of agricultural research.
The specific objectives of the project would be to: (a) transfer relevant technologies and indigenous
knowledge, and improved cultural practices to farmers' fields, and promote their adoption, (b) ensure that
technologies being developed are addressing actual problems of farmers, (c) establish and operate the
Agricultural Research and Development Centers (ARDCs), (d) reinforce NARO's technical and in-service
training support for the district-level extension services; and (e) strengthen NARO's effectiveness and
efficiency in technology transfer, including smallholder seed production and distribution systems,
integrated pest management, and soil fertility and management. The project would also: (f) provide



3
bridging finance for the design the proposed Agricultural Extension Project (AEP II), including pilot
activities to test modalities to improve technical support for the decentralized extension services. The
number of technologies developed and transferred to farmers will be given a higher weight in evaluating
performance of researchers. Key performance indicators have been identified to measure project inputs,
outputs, performance, and impact, such as increased adoption rates, yield increases and incomes of
farmers (see Annex 1). These key performance indicators will be reviewed during a series of national
consultations and may be revised as necessary.



4
B: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Cost +    % of   Bank-    % of Bank
Project Components              Category  Cont.    Total  financin  financing
(US$M)           g
(US$M)
(a) Technology Development and Adaptation.    Physical,  24.3    34       6.6          27
The project will support: (i) on-going, adaptive  Institution
research which address specific problems of   building
dominant production systems, (ii) adaptive   (INS) and
research to respond to serious emerging        project
problems, and (iii) establishment of an ARDF to  manage-
support a competitive research grants scheme.  ment (PM)
ARTP II would finance recurrent expenditures,
short-term training, procurement of goods and
services, civil works for repair and maintenance
of research institutes and construction of one
research institute.
(b) Outreach, Extension and Technology        PM and   15.9       22      6.1        38
Dissemination. ARTP II would give priority to  physical
dissemination and adoption of existing on-the-
shelf technologies through a partnership with
extension and other stakeholders. The project
would demonstrate these technologies in
farmers' fields and promote their adoption. The
project would finance procurement of goods,
services and civil works, short-term training and
incremental recurrent costs.
(c) Institutional Development. The project will  INS, PM   31.8   44     13.3        42
support the: (i) transformation of NARO into a  and
research and development institution to highlight    physical
its role to promote transfer and adoption of
improved technologies, (ii) updating of the
National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan
of 1991; and (iii) strengthening of NARO's
capacity for economic and impact analysis of
research results. ARTP II will finance short-tenn
training, recurrent expenditures, including staff
emoluments, procurement of goods and services,
and civil works for the rehabilitation of the
NARO Secretariat headquarters.
Total                 72.0     100    26.0          36



5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project would provide some support for institutional development and reforms of the national
agricultural research system to transform NARO into a research and development institution, giving
greater attention to the transfer and adoption of superior technologies. During the first year, the main
activity of the project would be to update the National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan of 1991,
strengthening NARO's capacity to monitor, evaluate and determine economic impact of improved
technologies, develop and implement a process for evaluating performance of NARO and its staff, and
refine the implementation strategy for the outreach, extension and technology dissemination program.
National and district level consultations will take stock of the priority constraints of the dominant
production systems of Uganda, and whether technologies to address these constraints already exist, are
under development, and what important problems loom in the future. These consultations will be
followed by the launching of a campaign to transfer improved technologies that already exist (on-the-
shelf) and indigenous technologies which show superior performance over farmers' practices, into
farmers' fields to increase production and incomes.
The project would assist the Government in decentralizing research to the country's nine agro-ecological
zones over the next 5-10 years, thus bringing researchers closer to the intended beneficiaries and
stakeholders. Eight ARDCs will be established involving the rehabilitation of (i) six existing District Farm
Institutes, and (ii) an existing DFI at Serere. The ARDCs will, in time, have a zonal/agroecological mandate
to improve production and incomes of dominant farming systems of the agroecological zones.
As a result of this and other initiatives intended to secure stakeholder participation in research planning,
implementation and program reviews, the project would promote a client-oriented and demand-driven
adaptive research agenda. The Concept Note on relevant research and extension (Annex 9) lays out a
structure for technology development and transfer to the districts/sub-counties. This structure will be
regularly evaluated and improved as necessary during the implementation of the project. Conditional
grants from the Government would be provided to the districts, upon the advice of NARO, to access or
contract for technical assistance, training and other services from any institution which can best provide
the services, as well as to contribute to the operating costs for technology development and transfer to the
districts. NARO's outreach program for effective technology transfer would be intensified through the
appointment of a Deputy Director General (DDG) who will be in charge of Outreach and Technology
Dissemination. The DDG will be supported by a fully staffed Outreach, Extension and Technology
Dissemination Unit (OU) in the NARO Secretariat. The DDG for Outreach and Technology
Dissemination will have overall responsibility for the outreach programs of the 8 ARDCs and of all the
research institutes and national coordination of technical support and training for the extension programs
of the districts and the sub-counties. The Project will support the active involvement of Makerere
University in research through the Agricultural Research and Development Fund (ARDF), and through in-
service and continuing education training courses to update skills of agricultural professionals, e.g.,
agribusiness technicians, NGOs, subject matter specialists and other extension staff, researchers, and
commodity groups.



6
3. Benefits and target population
The direct benefits of the project would include:
*  a strengthened research and development program establishing durable linkages between
researchers, extension workers and farmers focusing on a more client-oriented and demand-
driven research agenda,
*  new, improved/superior technologies introduced and adopted by farmers,
*  more cost-effective agricultural research institutions capable of effectively addressing the
priority problems and opportunities of farmers in major ecological zones of the country,
*  a better trained cadre of scientific and support personnel, and
•  increased production and incomes of smallholder clients.
The project would benefit crop and livestock farmers and fishermen, and particularly help most of the 2.5
million farm families in the country through improved production practices, resulting in higher incomes.
Rural employment would be raised through demand generated by increased output and productivity.
Benefits to the environment would accrue as a result of improved natural resource management and in
particular, better soil fertility and water management and increased tree cover through agroforestry.
Enhanced training capacity in MU would result in availability of well-trained Ugandans to meet human
resource requirements of agricultural research, extension and the emerging agribusiness sector.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Project Management and Oversight. The arrangements in place under ARTP I have been appropriately
modified to accommodate the emerging zonal/agroecological institutional structure, national coordination
of extension, decentralized research management, and coordination of donors. The Director General (DG)
of NARO, reporting to the NARO Board, would be the manager and coordinator of the national research
program financed by the Government and various donors. The DG will be assisted by the project
management team (PMT), comprising representatives from NARO operating units, in planning project
activities, implementation, monitoring and reporting of progress, of all agricultural research
programs/projects of the Uganda National Agricultural Research System (NARS). The PMT would
provide general oversight over the national research programs, deal with routine matters, and advise the
DG of implementation issues that require immediate attention. Representatives from MAAIF, donors and
other stakeholders will be invited to PMT meetings as necessary. The research institutes/centers and the
ARDCs will be managed by the Program Planning and Review Committees (PPRCs) which would serve
as the Board of Management in planning and implementing the adaptive research and development
agenda. The PPRCs will have substantial representation from processing and other industry groups, and
other stakeholders from the districts, e.g., farmers and farmer groups, women groups, NGOs, and
extension staff. The PPRCs would annually review the relevance of research results, and their adoption
and impact, and approve the research programs and budgets for the coming year.
Framework for a Relevant Research and Extension Service. A Concept Noteon the relevance of research
and extension, specifically the need for stronger and effective linkages between research, extension,
clients and other stakeholders is provided as Annex 9. The note highlights the objectives of the PMA and
outlines the basic principles for establishing a demand driven technology development and transfer
program which include decentralized administration of research, outreach and extension functions, and
outsourcing and cost-sharing of research and technical backstopping services. A key element would be
the establishment and operation of ARDCs by upgrading District Farm Institutes now divested to NARO.



7
Some of the TOC may be given expanded roles in research and development than others. Each ARDCs
would be managed by a Board comprising stakeholders in the districts. During the first year of the
project, the roles and functions of the ARDCs will be harmonized and agreed. NARO has already thie
initiated discussions with donors and other stakeholders with a view to clarifying and reaching common
agreement on the functions, and management and financing arrangements, including flow and use of
conditional grants, and cost-sharing arrangements for salaries of staff and recurrent operating costs.
The Research-Extension Interface. Under the project, NARO proposes to strengthen its links with farmers
and the extension workers in the districts by converting 8 of the DFIs, strategically located in a distinct
agroecological zone into Agricultural Research and Development Centers (ARDCs). NARO plans to
decentralize its research and development operations from around Kampala to the agroecological zones.
At the start, ARDCs will not be carrying out research. Their main focus will be to provide assistance to
the districts in identifying: (a) production constraints and opportunities, (b) on-the-shelf technologies that
may be able to address those constraints, (c) the research that would be needed to develop new
technologies to respond to current and future problems, and (d) monitor the flow and utilization of
research and development funds to the districts/sub-counties. They will also provide assistance to the
districts in identifying training needs, supply foundation seeds and planting materials for further
multiplication, and put up demonstration plots. The districts will be provided conditional grants to allow
them to contract for technical backstopping services, including training and on-fann demonstrations,
directly from the NARO research institutes, Makerere University, NGOs or other institutions with the
capacity to provide the services. The ARDCs will assist and facilitate the contracting process if requested.
Several DFIs (5-6) have been selected by some donors to operate as District Agricultural Training and
Information Centers that will be managed and co-financed by the district. The Mukono DFI is being
converted into a farmer training center which will sustain its operations through fees derived from training
courses offered, by renting its facilities for training programs sponsored by NGOs, Government agencies
and other stakeholders, and through the sale of products from its commercial operations. The Serere DFI
will be integrated as part of the commodity research institute at Serere and operate as an ARDC. Under
the proposed second phase Agricultural Extension Project (AEP II), the remaining DFIs would be
transformed into Agricultural Development Centers (ADCs). At this stage, it is not possible to determine
the most appropriate and cost-effective arrangement for supporting technology development and
dissemination at the field level. While there is agreement that the ADCs would be managed by a Board
comprising representatives from stakeholders, the size of the Board, its authority to review and approve
the annual work program and budget and other functions still need to be discussed and agreed. The
running costs of the ADCs would be shared between the district(s), NARO, and other stakeholders
involved. The implementation of the various arrangements will be regularly monitored and evaluated
during project implementation. At the mid-term of the project or sooner, the cost-effectiveness, efficiency
and sustainability of the various modalities for channeling technical support and funding assistance to the
field level extension service will be assessed with the view to a common management structure and
operating arrangements for all ARDCs and ADCs.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. NARO's financial management system
established under ARTP I has been computerized with a network in place for decentralized financial
management at the institute level. The system would also cover the new ARDCs. NARO's financial
management system is designed to provide a financial report of the overall NARO accounts which will
show sources and application of funds from all donors and the Government. NARO's financial
management system has been assessed by IDA and found to be satisfactory for ARTP II to qualify to be a
pilot on the use of LACI (Loan Administration Change hiitiative) as a financial management approach.
As under ARTP I, the Auditor General would conduct an annual audit of NARO institutional accounts,



8
including project accounts, SOEs, and the special accounts. A separate audit opinion on the ARDF
account will be made. The Government would provide annual audit reports to IDA within 6 months of the
close of the fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. NARO, through the Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
(MEPU), would give greater emphasis to the M&E function. M&E procedures would be improved with
the assistance of consultants. MEPU would be responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) of all agricultural research programs and may contract out some of these tasks, as necessary.
Studies/surveys would be conducted to establish baseline information to measure project impacts at mid-
term and at the end of the project using key performance indicators agreed during appraisal (and shown in
Annex 1) or as revised. The research institutes/centers and the ARDCs would be responsible for
monitoring progress of the programs implemented by them in terms of the agreed key indicators. They
would also be responsible for submission of these periodic M&E reports to NARO for distribution to
donors and clients. Starting July 1, 1999, the reporting formats and the biannual reporting schedule which
have been revised to respond to the requirements of NARO's management, and IDA's LACI will be used.
The NARO Board, the PPRCs, and concerned technical committees would discuss these reports and
provide guidance on how project implementation can be improved to best attain the development
objectives ofthe project. An impact evaluation ofthe project would be carried out forthe mid-term
review and during the last year of the project.



9
C: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS Document: Report No. 16540-UG, discussed on May 20, 1997, 6 year implementation period.
The Government's stated national development objective is poverty eradication through rapid and broad-
based growth, vastly improved service delivery, and regionally targeted investment in distressed areas,
particularly in the North. As part of the Bank's strategy for supporting the revitalization of rural
development, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) identifies accelerated agricultural growth as a key
component, along with greater public investment in infrastructure, improved implementation of the
decentralization policy and reduced regional disparity. CAS supported strategies for accelerated
agricultural growth are strengthened research and extension, improved access to land, and preparation of a
national strategy for micro/rural finance. Together with further support to the Govemment extension
service through a follow-on Agricultural Extension Project (AEP II), the proposed project would directly
support the CAS objectives that relate to agricultural intensification through technology development,
dissemination and adoption. The Government has confirmed that the project's objectives are consistent
with the priorities of the Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (PMA).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Uganda has made exceptional progress in liberalizing its markets for agricultural commodities. Some of
the remaining policy issues include the following':
(a) Decentralization - Uganda is committed to decentralization but a lot more work is needed concerning
two essential elements: adequate funding, and analytical and administrative capacity. Uganda needs to
pay attention to the rapidly developing fields of communication and information technologies which can
be harnessed effectively in the service of successful decentralization. The overall policy guidance and
technical and financial support for the operation of decentralized agricultural research and extension
services require further scrutiny and agreement by all concerned. A strategic and institutional framework
for agricultural extension in Uganda has been agreed with the Government. During the design of the
proposed AEP II, several options for operating and supporting a decentralized, district-managed extension
service operating at the Sub-County level will be tried. The mechanisms for the flow of conditional grant
funds for extension directly to the Sub-County will be developed.
(b) Private Sector Financing of Agricultural Research. At present a charge of one percent of coffee export
revenues is levied to meet the regulatory and other costs of the Uganda Coffee Development Authority
(UCDA). This levy, its size and its use, raise a number of issues which apply more broadly to all the
traditional export commodities. If a levy is to be charged, the question should be raised whether research
and extension would not be better funded by the industry itself and tightly focused upon the problems
specific to the commodity in question. This approach may provide a much more effective mechanism for
generating and extending improved technologies and cultural practices. The appropriate level of such a
commodity levy needs to be determined. At present, the levy for the UCDA appears to sustain a
substantial net surplus (14 percent of revenue), whereas its current allocation for coffee research to NARO
is no more than two percent of revenue. The Government has agreed in principle to increase the allocation
from the levy to support research and extension.
Donovan, Graeme. Uganda Agricultural Sector Memorandum. World Bank, February, 1998.



10
(c) Institutional Issues. The main institutional issues relate to reducing the size of the MAAIF, and
restructuring agricultural research and extension consistent with the Govemment's policies on
decentralization, poverty eradication and the PMA. Following privatization to its logical conclusion implies
that the Ministry should focus significant attention to policy-making and regulatory activities, and in
providing marketing information to facilitate the growth of private trade in agricultural inputs and outputs.
Such a mandate and the decentralization of extension to the districts, substantially reduces the functions and
number of staff of the Ministry. The status of NARO as an autonomous organization, responsible for
technology development and adaptation as provided in the NARO Statute of 1992 has been reaffirmed.
NARO will give particular attention to intensify dissemination, transfer and adoption of existing and newly
developed improved technologies, as well as superior and relevant indigenous knowledge. To highlight the
importance of this initiative, a Deputy Director General for Outreach and Technology Dissemination will be
appointed. The DDG will be assisted by a strengthened Research, Extension and Outreach Unit (OU) headed
by a Director with the same rank as a research institute director. At the national level, NARO will be
responsible to: (i) plan, undertake, and streamline research in agriculture, livestock, fisheries, and forestry; (ii)
ensure the dissemination and facilitate application of research results, including indigenous knowledge and
on-the-shelf technologies; and (iii) provide administrative coordination, technical backstopping, and training
for District and Sub-County level extension programs.
In coordination with NARO, the MAAIF will also assist in providing technical backstopping and training
for District and Sub-County extension programs, monitor and evaluate extension activities and the flow
and utilization of funds, and participate in national extension policy formulation and planning.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Decentralization. ARTP II would support the planning for, and initial implementation of decentralizing
research infrastructure to the nine agroecological zones. Under the project, the DFI at Serere will become
part of the Serere Agricultural and Animal Production Research Institute (SAARI) and converted into an
ARDC to address the constraints and opportunities of the dominant farming systems in the agroecological
zone. The Forestry Research Institute which will be constructed in a more suitable agro-ecological zone
will also perform the functions of an ARDC. As earlier mentioned, over the next 5-10 years, NARO will
be moving most of its researchers in its commodity research institutes from around Kampala to the
agroecological zones.
Export Commodity Taxation. The proposed project will commission studies to explore possible funding
of research on export commodities through a research cess and/or through research contracted with NARO
and/or MU by the export commodity sectors and other agribusiness enterprises.
Institutional Issues. The main focus of the institutional restructuring of NARO over the next 5-10 years
would be decentralizing the planning, and implementation of the adaptive research program of the
research institutes to the districts and sub-counties in the various agroecological zones. Emphasis will be
given to promoting the participation of smallholder farmers and other stakeholders in the research and
development process to ensure a demand driven, client-oriented adaptive research and development
programn. The vital role of Makerere University of providing the human resource required by research and
extension programs is recognized. Some academic departments like food science and technology,
agricultural engineering, and veterinary disciplines would require further assistance under ARTP II.
NARO has recently been given the additional responsibility for coordinating the extension activities of the
districts at the national level. The Concept Note on relevant research and extension (Annex 9) describes
the overall relationships between NARO, the Directorate for Crops and Animal Resources of the MAAIF



11
and the decentralized district extension services, with respect to technology development, extension
planning, technology transfer, financial management, monitoring and evaluation of activities and
provision of technical support services. These relationships will be continuously monitored, evaluated
during project implementation, and improved as necessary.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Initially, the Government and the Bank, in view of the new role given to NARO to coordinate extension at
the national level, considered combining the follow-on research and extension projects into one operation.
This alternative was not pursued as the Government wanted the second phase research project to be in
place as early as possible in view of the fact that funds available under several categories of expenditure in
the on-going ARTP I have already been exhausted. It was determined that the next phase extension
project, AEP II, would require more time to clarify certain organizational and policy issues with the
MAAIF and the district governments, and operational and financing arrangements with bilateral donors
and NGOs, and would not be ready for appraisal for at least another year. It was, therefore, agreed that the
two projects would be processed separately. It was also agreed that bridging finance to continue support
for extension activities and the processing of AEP II would be provided under ARTP II.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies:
Latest Supervision
(PSR) Ratings
Sector Issue              Projects                                 (Bank-financed
projects only)
IP         DO
Bank-financed
Agricultural productivity  Agricultural Extension (Cr. 2424-UG)    S          S
and economic growth
Cotton Sub-sector Develop. (Cr. 2609-UG)    S      S
Livestock Development (Cr. 2176-UG)     U           U
Agric. Sector Adjustment (Cr. 2190-UG)  S           S
Southwest Region Agricultural           S           S
Rehabilitation (Cr. 2632-UG)
Northern Uganda Reconstruction,         S           S
Agriculture Component (Cr. 2362-UG)
Agricultural Development (Cr.1539-UG)   S           S
Smallholder productivity  Agricultural Research and Training (Cr.  S          S
and rural poverty         2446-UG)
National Agricultural Research (Cr. 1849-  S        S
KE)
National Agric. Research 11 (Cr. 2935-KE)    S      S
Other development
agencies
Smallholder productivity    IFAD Smallholder Cotton Rehabilitation  S         S
and rural poverty
IFAD Vegetable Oil Development          S           S



12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
Performance and Impact: There are several important lessons learned from implementing ARTP I and a
number of agricultural research and extension projects in Uganda and in neighboring countries. Some of
these are: (a) an enabling environment and a transparent incentive/reward system are required to make
researchers productive; (b) the concentration of research institutes and centers in a particular part of the
country, quite distant from most of the farmers spread over all the agroecological zones, has resulted in a
lack of focus on the issues and problems of farmers which are generally location (agro-ecological zone)-
specific; (c) implementation of research programs works better if management is decentralized; (d)
greater involvement of stakeholders in research planning and budgeting, including research priority
setting, budgeting and assessment of results obtained, ensures the relevance of the research programs; (e)
lack of access by farmers to improved seeds lead to delayed adoption of improved varieties, (f) monitoring
and impact evaluation of research programs have been generally neglected and need to be significantly
improved; and (g) measures to ensure sustainability of the national research program need to be given
more attention. These lessons have been taken into consideration in designing the ARTP II.
Under the project, the National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan of 1991 will be reviewed with
stakeholders and updated. This will include the review of research priorities in the light of existing
problems as well as those that seriously loom in the future. The size and salary structure of NARO staff
will be revisited. The Ministry of Public Services (MPS) and the MFPED would play key roles in
approving any revision of NARO's terms and conditions of service and compensation package. With the
participation of the MPS and technical backstopping of the International Service for National Agricultural
Research (ISNAR), NARO will develop a performance appraisal system for: (i) evaluating NARO's
performance and impact, and (ii) evaluating staff performance to improve the relevance and quality of
research as well as to determine staff promotion, rewards, and sanctions, as warranted.
Several studies will be conducted. These would include the preparation of the plan and strategy for
decentralizing research, development of a research endowment or trust fund to provide sustainable
incremental funding for research and development, a national strategy for soil fertility and management,
and a strategy to promote the development of the formal and informal seed industry in Uganda. Terms of
reference for the feasibility study to create and endowment fund and for the seed sector development study
are shown in the Project Implementation Plan (21P). Results and recommendations of the studies would
be discussed and a dated action plan agreed not later than March 31, 2000. The results and
recommendations of the decentralization study will be discussed and agreed at the mid-term of the project.
Development Communication/hiformation System for Research. To support NARO's technology
development and transfer mandate, the National Agricultural Documentation and Information Center will
be transformed into an Agricultural Research Information System (ARIS) whose mandate will be
expanded to include documentation of research activities, results and recommendations, linking NARO
research institutes electronically with each other, and preparation of prototypes of extension brochures,
manuals and extension materials for multiplication by the MAAIF/Districts. A reference library at
NAROSEC and selected institutes using CD-ROM technology would be established, and training staff on
research and development communications and information systems, and promoting public awareness to
NARO's objectives, programs and accomplishments, would be carried out.
Partnerships and Competitive Research Funding: In the Uganda ARTP, where major institutional change
was an objective, key elements of change involved the retrenchment of staff, rationalization of the number
and functions of research centers, and streamlining of the priority setting process. These processes would



13
be continued under ARTP II. In addition, participation of smallholder clients, and linkages and
collaboration with the decentralized extension service at the districts, through mechanisms such as the
farming systems approach (FSA) introduced under ARTP 1, would be significantly expanded.
Partnerships with producer and processor associations, and academic institutions would be fostered
through research supported by an Agricultural Research and Development Fund (ARDF ), to be
established following the Kenya agricultural research fund as a model. The ARDF will finance proposals
for research and development programs/projects largely from outside the NARO and would include
collaborative research with the International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs) operating in Uganda.
Guidelines for the operation of the ARDF have been agreed and described in detail in the ARDF Manual
which is available in the project file.
Donor Coordination: Uniting donor efforts in support of a single coherent program is desirable, specially
when the number of participants, project size and complexity increase. The experience of neighboring
countries has shown the value of coordinating the activities of donors. The director general of NARO,
assisted by its Management Committee, and back-stopped by the Monitoring Evaluation and Planning
Unit (MEPU) will be responsible for coordinating all donor activities in agricultural research. Meeting
once every three months or as frequently as required, the MC will also be monitoring implementation
progress through the MEPU, and inform the DG/DDG of urgent matters requiring immediate attention.
The DG who is the Chairman of the MC, shall delegate authority for day-to-day operations to his Vice-
Chairman . The PMT will use the reporting formats suggested under the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) of the Bank which would also be used for preparing reports to the donors on
procurement, training, and overall project progress and finances. (Also see Section B4 above.)
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership
The Govemment's Development Plan has accorded the highest priority to the development of the
agriculture sector and to the improvement of farmers' production and productivity. The PMA has
identified agricultural research and extension as important vehicles for achieving these. The allocation of
development resources over the last few years has shown the importance that the Government has placed
on supporting the research and extension services. Counterpart funds have been adequate, specially the
Govemment's contribution for recurrent expenditures including salaries. The proposed project was
designed by the Ugandan project preparation team comprising senior officials demonstrating a high level
of ownership. Like in the case of the ARTP, the proposed ARTP II has been endorsed by the MAAIF and
the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, the Sectoral Committee on Agriculture of
the Parliament, and other stakeholders as a high priority project essential for supporting the Government's
Poverty Eradication Action Plan and the PMA.
5. Value-added of Bank support in this project
The project is expected to make a significant contribution in further improving the effectiveness of the
national agricultural research system and the recently decentralized extension service to provide relevant,
improved technologies to smallholder farmers. The further enhancement of the agricultural education
capacity of Makerere University, including continuing agricultural education, would be supported. This
project will build on the research and financial management systems established under ARTP I which
would be decentralized to the research institutes. The project would strengthen NARO's capacity to
coordinate donors assisting research and extension programs, harmonize various approaches for research
and extension collaboration and support to the districts, and finance operating costs, procurement of goods
and technical assistance.



14
IDA has played a key role in supporting the development of the national agricultural research program
under ARTP L. Without IDA's support for ARTP II, the output of the national agricultural research system
would slow considerably, with negative consequences for the generation and transfer of new technology,
smallholder productivity, environmental protection and poverty eradication in rural areas. IDA support
would, therefore, play an important role in ensuring that research continues to make a substantial
contribution to rural development.
E: Summary Project Analysis (See Annex 8)
1. Economic
(supported by Annex 4):
An economic assessment was undertaken for four commodity research programs of NARO to analyze the
returns to agricultural research investments in Uganda. This analysis is not limited to expenditures under
ARTP but looks at returns to all investments in research and extension activities for four key food crops
which together account for more than 50% of the total arable and permanent crop area in Uganda. These
are maize, beans, cassava, and Matoke bananas. The time frame for each analysis is defined by the start of
research activities for the respective crops and the likely period over which benefits are expected to
materialize. Benefits focus on the development of new technical packages and, especially in the case of
bananas, are likely to underestimate the actual benefits from research, because of data constraints. The
table below gives the economic indicators derived by this analysis:
Cost-benefit Analysis for Research/Extension Investments in 4 Key Food Crops
Maize            Beans           Cassava           Matoke
Bananas
IRR                   34%              45%               44%              15%
NPV (12%,
million US$,          19.7             60.0             174.5             12.4
1997 prices)                     I                 I                I                 I
At an opportunity cost of capital of 12%, investment in applied agricultural research on annual food crops
in Uganda is highly competitive. In the case of Matoke bananas, the parameters specified in the analysis
are close to the minimum that needs to be achieved to make the investment in banana research profitable,
highlighting the comparative advantage of applied versus basic research and the faster retums from
research on annual food crops versus perennials. The results for maize, beans, and cassava are robust to
changes in individual variables as well as to a combination of variables (yield increase and adoption
ceiling; product price and adoption ceiling), and are in line with numerous ex-post studies regarding the
impact of agricultural research in Sub-Saharan Africa.
2. Financial
A series of reviews of the financial systems will take place during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation. Some of the important issues requiring special attention include: the need for consistent
and well integrated budgetary, financial, intemal controls and accounting processes and procedures for the
NARO Secretariat and the research institutes to promote greater financial autonomy; clear demarcation of
responsibilities in respect of expenditures and maintenance of accounts for day to day operations;
installation of adequate intemal control systems and procedures; and timely overall audit of accounts.



15
Procedures will be established for pricing and cost recovery mechanisms for certain services, e.g., soil
analysis, and production and sale of farm produce such as, improved seeds, animal breeds, etc.. by the
research institutes. NARO would also need to develop procedures to monitor and annually evaluate the
cost-effectiveness of each research activity and explore cost reducing measures.
Fiscal impact:
In broad terms, sustainability of agricultural research in Uganda depends on a continuation of the country's
transformation to a market-oriented economy, and the concomitant realignment of the roles of public and
private sectors in research. Agricultural research in the public sector will focus on the highest national
priorities and be implemented by an efficient institution, NARO. The viability of NARO will depend on
the quality of its research products and management systems, to be further strengthened under the
proposed project, and on commitments by Government on financing incremental operating costs, NARO's-
new initiative of generating revenues, including the establishment of an endowment fund for agricultural
research. At the level of resources allocated by the Government to NARO, ARTP II is sustainable for the
duration of the project. In the post project-period starting from FY2005/2006, however, a possible
financing gap emerges, largely from the full payment by NARO/GOU of the salaries of staff. At this time
the financing gap is estimated at USh 5 billion; this could be much less if NARO's payment of salaries at
the end of the project would be 70% with full assumption of the salary budget, during an anticipated third
phase of the Bank's long-term commitment to support research and development in Uganda. NARO has
also indicated that the original figures on the contribution of other donors is based on very conservative
estimates and could actually be much higher.
The response of NARO to this projected financing gap is to do further analysis aimed at reducing the
scope of Government financing in those areas where the private sector may be willing to participate, or
where beneficiaries may be willing to pay, and on improving cost effectiveness. In addition, several
initiatives would be undertaken by NARO to meet 10-15% of the NARO budget in FY2005/2006. These
include: (i) arrangements and negotiations with commodity/industry groups to provide research funds on a
contract basis and/or take responsibility for funding and implementation of commodity research, (ii)
expanding of extra-budgetary incomes raised from cesses/levies, (iii) generation of revenues from the sale
of farm produce, including foundation seeds of improved varieties and animal breeds, and provision of
consultancy services, (iv) "right sizing" the network of research institutes/centers, and (v) the
establishment of an Agricultural Research Endowment Fund.
3. Technical
The project design is sound and takes into account lessons learned from the operations of the ongoing
ARTP I and the regional experiences. The design was also guided by the Government's Plan for the
Modernization of Agriculture (see Concept Note, Annex 9). The ongoing project helped in creating an
appropriate institutional framework for the research organization and improved research infrastructure
and institutional capacity for conducting the priority research programs. Scientists were properly
remunerated which enhanced motivation. Systems were established for research planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. The proposed project builds on these achievements to further
strengthen the institutional structure of NARO for a decentralized research establishment, and stronger
outreach capacity for effective linkages with fanners and extension. It seeks to improve human resource
development by supporting the training programs of the Continuing Agricultural Education Center
(CAEC) located at MU-Kabanyolo, to update the skills of subject matter specialists, front line extension
workers, researchers, NGOs and the private agribusiness sector. In the design of the project, special care
has been taken to: (a) emphasize the client-oriented and demand-driven aspects by decentralizing research



16
to agro-ecological zones and by supporting and strengthening the operations of the program planning and
review committees of research institutes/centers through appropriate representation of stakeholders and
research-users; (b) establish a vigorous outreach, technology dissemination and extension program to
promote strong support for agricultural development; (c) strengthen existing farmer-extension-research-
linkages and collaboration; (d) ensure that on-the shelf technologies and indigenous knowledge, where
relevant, as well as newly developed technologies, are demonstrated and adopted; (d) delegate financial
and administrative authority to the research institutes/centers for carrying out their mandates efficiently
and cost-effectively; and (f) encourage NARO/Government to adopt measures like: (i) requiring a
cess/levy on commercial and industrial crops to raise incremental sources of research funding; and (ii)
establishing the capacity within NARO to provide consultancy services, and for carrying out contract
research for industry and businesses for a fee. Over time, these measures should reduce dependence for
research funding from the Government and lead to increasing levels of sustainability.
4. Institutional
The institutional arrangements for implementing the project are described in Section B4 above. NARO,
through its DG, and under the supervision of the NARO Board, would have the overall responsibility for
project implementation, monitoring, evaluation and reporting implementation progress to the Government
and IDA. Directors of research institutes/centers would be responsible for providing regular reports on the
progress of the annual work program and shall be accountable for funds provided. For projects funded by
the ARDF, NARO would review and approve proposals, and monitor and report implementation progress.
General oversight for ARTP II would be provided by MAAIF as the responsible ministry for the
agriculture sector.
5. Social
Beneficiary involvement and stakeholder participation is central to the project and project implementation
is likely to have a positive impact on all participating farmers and users of new technology. The impact of
the HIV epidemic on the availability of labor and overall agricultural productivity would be assessed to
guide NARO in developing the appropriate technologies required to mitigate the effects of the H1V
epidemic. The project would contribute to broad-based poverty eradication in the country by supporting
technological change and innovation in agriculture, forestry, fisheries and livestock production, which will
improve production and increase rural incomes. Women, who constitute a high percentage of the
Ugandan farming population play key roles as farm laborers, managers and decision makers. A
significant effort will be made to develop and test appropriate labor-saving technologies particularly for
women farners. Strategies of mainstreaming gender issues will be developed in collaboration with the
Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development and would include: (i) producing technologies
which are especially suited for women; (ii) promotion of small enterprises run by women's groups and
(iii) training workshops to sensitize scientists, extension workers, and policy makers to gender related
issues.
6. Environmental Assessment
Environmental Category     [ ] A   [ ] B    [x] C
The proposed operation is classified in environmental category C. There are no major environmental
issues anticipated. The proposed operation would support research aimed specifically at natural resource
management by generating technologies that will facilitate resource conservation and improve soil
productivity. The use of leguminous trees to promote soil and water conservation would be introduced to



17
farmers. Research programs financed under the project would also focus on improving integrated pest
management (IPM) techniques utilizing biological agents. Research on fertilizers and pesticides is aimed
at efficient use of these inputs, particularly by minimizing pesticide use through integrated pest
management. Also, participatory on-farm and farming systems research would help stabilize and improve
farming in areas with degraded environments. The environmental impact of the project is therefore
expected to be strongly positive.
7. Participatory Approach
Stakeholders                           Preparation      Implementati     Operation
on
Beneficiaries/community groups                          IS/COL           CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs                                       IS/CON/COL       CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
Academic institutions                   CON             CON/COL          CON/COL
Local govermment                        CON/COL         CON/COL          CON/COL
Other donors                                            IS/CON/COL       IS/CON/COL
IS/CON/COL
[Note: Form of planned involvement: infonnation sharing [ISI; consultation [CON]; and collaboration [COLI.]
8. Checklist of Bank Policies
a. This project involves (check applicable items):
[ ]   Indigenous peoples   (OD 4.20)      [x] Financial management  (OP 10.02), (BP 10.02)
[]   Cultural property    (OPN 11.03)     [x] Financing of recurrent costs  (OMS 1.21)
[ ]   Environ. impacts  (GP 4.01),(BP 4.01),  []  Local cost sharing,  (GP 6.30), (OP 6.30)
(GP 4.01)                                            (BP 6.30)
[xl  Gender issues      (OP 4.20)         [   Cost-sharing above country, (GP 6.30), (OP 6.30)
three-year average      (BP 6.30)
[]   Involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30)   [x] Retroactive financing above
normal limits (OP 12.10), (GP 12.10)
[x]  NGO involvement   (GP 14.70)         []  Disputed territory (OP 7.60), (BP 7.60), (GP 7.60)
[ ]   Riparian water rights  (OP 7.50), BP  []  Other (provide necessary details)
7.50 , (GP 7.50)



18
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
In broad terms, sustainability of agricultural research in Uganda depends on a continuation of the country's
transformation to a market-oriented economy, and the concomitant realignment of the roles of the public
and private sectors in research. Agricultural research in the public sector will focus on the highest national
priorities and be implemented by an efficient institution, NARO. The viability of NARO will depend on
the quality of its research products and management systems, to be further strengthened under the
proposed project and with Government commitment on financing incremental operating costs, and
NARO's new initiatives for generating revenues. An essential aspect of sustainability will be the growing
role of commodity groups in providing research funds on a contract basis, and expanding base of extra-
budgetary incomes raised from cess/levies, enhanced incomes generated by sale of station farm produce
and services and incomes raised through the NARO's consultancy services group. NARO also proposes
to pilot formulation of appropriate cost-sharing arrangements with clients who will be involved in
identification of problems and research priorities in dominant production systems of essential food crops
and other strategic commodities. Under the proposed operation, NARO will undertake a feasibility study
for the establishment of an endowment fund for research using IDA funds, government and bilateral donor
contributions, levies/cesses on export crops, and income generated by NARO. The Fund's income would
provide incremental funding for recurrent operations and the ARDF.
2. Critical Risks
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                 Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Outputs to Objective
The El Nino and La Nina phenomenon   M         Land and crop management practices to
could have serious effects on                  overcome harmful effects of
agricultural production.                       unstable/unreliable rainfall and small scale
irrigation of high value crops should mitigate
_ _______  the harmful effect of drought or excess rainfall.
Project Components to Outputs
ARDCs may take time to establish     N         NARO will immediately pilot the
establishment and operation of two ARDCs
using the PPF.
Participation of stakeholders in     N         Funds to contract on-farm research and other
planning and implementation of                 support services required from NARO, MU and
research may not be adequate                   MAAIF will be provided to the district
extension services.
Financing for research may be        N         Increased contribution from export crops, cost
inadequate.                                    sharing with the districts, resulting in a
reduction of the GOU counterpart contribution,
should mitigate these risks.
Overall Risk Rating                  N        I_I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



19
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The main concem is the different perceptions on the respective roles of the MAAIF in managing extension
at the national level and of NARO in providing technical backstopping and training, and facilitating
technology transfer and linkages with the local governments and farmers. Under a recent Government
decision, it was clarified that the primaiy responsibilities of NARO with regard to supporting the
agricultural extension services will be the: (i) strengthening of the farmer-extension-research linkages, (ii)
provision and national coordination of technical backstopping for extension activities of the local
governments, (iii) adaptation and dissemination of new, improved technologies and farming practices, (iv)
financial management of funds of the project, including the development of mechanisms for the transfer of
funds directly to the districts/sub-counties, (iv) training of front line extension staff and subject matter
specialists, and (v) the preparation and design of the proposed AEP II. These defined roles of NARO do
not include management of day-to-day extension activities of the local government units.
For the MAAIF, the immediate effect of devolving all operational activities as per the Constitution onto
the district structures, is the nullification of the need for a Directorate of Extension. However, in the light
of the constitutionally defined Ministerial functions of: Policy Formulation, Planning, Technical
Guidance, Inspection/Regulation, Coordination, and Monitoring and Evaluation, the two Directorates of
Crop Resources and Animal Resources have been retained to discharge these functions at the national
level. Through these Directorates the MAAIF will be monitoring field activities to ensure maintenance of
desired standards and equity in service delivery across the country; and helping in building further
technical capacity in the districts and sub-counties. In coordination with NARO, the Crops Resources and
Animal Resources Directorates of the MAAIF will also provide training and technical support services,
and monitor and evaluate the effectiveness and relevance of the district extension service. During the first
year of the Project, the MAAIF will be provided financing for monitoring and evaluating extension
activities jointly with NARO. These arrangements will be closely monitored and evaluated during
implementation of the Project, and would be modified as necessary.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
The following are conditions for Credit effectiveness:
(a)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and NARO;
(b)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited into the Project Account an amount in
Uganda Shillings equivalent to $5,000;
(c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Project Implementation Plan; and
(d)    NARO has appointed a Deputy Director General satisfactory to the Association, for Outreach and
Technology Dissemination.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.



20
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[xl The Project hmplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] The training plan for the first year's activities is complete and ready for the start of project
implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Edgardo Quisumbing                 Sushma  anguly             Jam s V. Adams
Team Leader                        Sector Manager             Cou    Director



21
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Logical Framework
Narrative Summary                    Targets/Key Verifiable Indicators         Means of Verification           Important Assumptions
I. Bank Country Assistance
Strategy Objectives
Accelerated agricultural growth to:  15% increase in output of                 *  National statistics          *  Political stability and good
*   meet the rising food requirements of  *  non-grain starchy staples         *  MAAIF statistics                 govemance are maintained
the growing population;          *  cereals                                *  Local industry survey reports   *  Favorable macro-economic
*  provide sufficient supply of raw  *  grain legumes                          *  National household income        environment exist in country
materials for local agro-industries;    *  oil seeds                          survey reports               *  Good institutional infrastructure
*  generate foreign exchange earnings   *  livestock products                                                      at farm level to support uptake of
through diversification of                                                                                     technology
agriculture;                     15% increase in output of                                                 *  Favorable climate for
*  reduce rural poverty and raise the  *  fisheries                                                                agricultural production exists in
standard of living of the rural poor    *  forestry                                                            project areas
by increasing farm household                                                                               *  Adequate funds for research and
incomes.                                                                                                       technology transfer are provided
II. Project Development Objectives
*  Increase efficiency and productivity
of dominant crops, livestock,    *  20% adoption rate of new technologies    *  Baseline surveys; farm     *  Stakeholders, especially farmers,
fisheries, and agroforestry systems  by farmers in specific locations by mid-  surveys; technology adoption    actively participate in research
through improved technologies.       term and 50% by end of project.           studies; case studies of        planning and implementation
*  Increased farm household incomes                                                successful examples; impact
and improved family welfare      *  15% increase in household income and       studies                     *  Technologies developed are
improved welfare in specific locations by  *  Household surveys; farmers  relevant to farmers' conditions
*  Improved management of natural        mid-term and 30% by end of project        and focus group interviews      and inputs are available and
resources and protection of       *  20% increase in environment-friendly                                      affordable
environment                          technologies developed and promoted by  *  Fann surveys; adoption rate    *  Policies provide incentives for
NARO and 40% adopted by farmers by       studies; case studies of         adoption of improved
mid-term to end of project               successful examples              technologies



22
Narrative Summary                    Targets/Key Verifiable Indicators         Means of Verification           Important Assumptions
III. Project Outputs
*  Improved capacity of NARO for     *  Improved technologies made available    *  Baseline data, annual       *  Full support from NARO's top
research planning, implementation    and adopted by farmers, high level of     workplan and budgets; cost      management in implementation.
and technology transfer.             participation of stakeholders, especially  tables; NARO organizational  *  NARO has critical mass of staff
farmers in research planning and problem  review report; annual program  to implement research and
identification.                          evaluation report               technology transfer programs.
*  Sufficient funds are provided in
*  Established and operated six      *  Two ARDCs established by end of Y2;   *  Project progress reports;         a timely manner.
ARDCs.                               total eight ARDCs established by end of   facilities completion reports.   *  Stakeholders, especially farmers,
project.                                                                  actively participate in planning
*  Increased number of technologies                                            *  Baseline surveys; periodic       and evaluation of NARO
developed and tested on-farm by  *  Number and quality of technologies        farm surveys; adoption rate      programs and activities.
NARO and adopted.                    developed and tested by NARO; 50% of      studies; Project progress
new technologies adopted by farmers.     reports.
*  Increased technical and training
support by NARO for district     *  No. of extension staff trained by NARO;  *  Project progress reports;
extension services.              *  No. and type of technical advice by       training evaluation reports.
NARO to extension workers.
*  number of on-farm adaptive trials, field    *  Project progress reports;
days and demonstrations.                 training evaluation reports;
*  Strengthened continuing agricultural                                           university research reports.
education training capacity at   *  No. of courses held, No. of extension,
Makerere University in Kabanyolo.    NARO, NGOs and private agribusiness
sector staff trained.



23
Narrative Summary                    Targets/Key Verifiable Indicators         Means of Verification           Important Assumptions
Project Activities
A. Technology development and
adaptation
*  Updated national agricultural     *  Year 2 annual workplan reflects updated   *  Annual evaluation reports;  *  NARO management provides
research strategy and plan of 1991,  national and zonal priorities; priorities  *  Report of peniodic priority  close supervision and timely
established national and nofn1       which will be reviewed by mid-term of     setting exercise.               interventions.
research priorities and programs.    the project.                          *  Baseline surveys; periodic    *  Adequate funds are provided in a
farm surveys; adoption rate     timely manner.
*  Developed and tested relevant     *  Increase in number of technologies tested  studies; reports of case studies  *  Good M&E and MIS systems in
technologies in dominant crops,      in crops (50%/o), livestock (30%/o), fisheries  and impact studies.       place.
livestock, fisheries and forestry    (3 0%), agroforestry (30%/o); 50%                                      *  Clients, especially farmers,
production systems.                  adoption of technologies by fanners.                                      adequately participate in NARO
programs and activities.
*  Supported short-term training of  *  Number of staff have completed short-    *  Project progress reports;  *  NARO partners (extension,
NARO staff and extension workers     term training at mid-term (250); by end   training evaluation reports.    NGOs, MU) actively participate
on technical, rescarch management,   of project (450).                                                         and committed to provide
natural resource management, and                                                                                additional resources, as required.
extension topics.                                                                                           *  NARO has critical mass of staff
to implement research and
*  Improved delivery of technical    *  30 % of TA services procured by end of   *  Project progress reports; TA   technology transfer programs.
support services for research        Year 2; TA services satisfactory based on  inception and progress
planning, management,                periodic evaluation by end-users.         reports; TA evaluation reports.
implementation and decentralized
financial accountability.



24
Narrative Summary                     Targets/Key Verifiable Indicators          Means of Verification            Important Assumptions
B. Outreach, Extension and
Technology Dissemination
Strengthened research-extension-farmers  *  Eight ARDCs are operational at end of    *   ARDC annual progress     *  NARO management provides
linrages                                  project; % of funds allocated for district  reports                         close supervision and timely
activities by local governments increase.   *   Field surveys; third party  interventions.
farmers' satisfaction surveys   *  Adequate funds are provided in a
Established eight ARDCs               *  70 % ARDC activities implemented        *  Periodic planning evaluation      timely manner.
jointly by researchers, extension workers  reports; third party farmers'    *  Good M&E and MIS systems are
and farmers by end of project; 50%        satisfaction surveys             in place.
farmers involved in activities are                                      *  Clients, especially farmers,
satisfied; high level of awareness of                                      adequately participate in NARO
NARO technologies by fanners and local                                     programs and activities.
officials by mid-term project.                                          *  NARO partners (extension,
*  Project progress reports;         NGOs, MU) actively participate
Supported in-service training of      *  25% of extension staff participated in in-  training reports; training       and committed to provide
extension staff.                          service training; 60% of trained staff     evaluation report                additional resources, as required.
have been applying new skills                                           *  NARO has critical mass of staff
to implement research and
Developed participatory district-level  *  Level of participation of fanners in  *  Field surveys; third party        technology transfer programs.
extension plans                           extension planning; 50% of farners in     farmers' satisfaction surveys
locations are satisfied
Conducted on-fann research and        *  No. of demonstration trials and field days
demonstration trials and field days       conducted; 50% of farmers involved are   *  Project progress reports;
involving farmers                         satisfied.                                 media effectiveness studies;
field surveys; third party
farmers' satisfaction surveys
*  increase in regular radio audience of
agriculture programs; 80% of farmers are  *  Multi-media evaluation
Provided multi-media support for          aware of NARO programs and activities;     reports; reports of farmers'
extension and fanners' activities         50% of farmers found print media           surveys; project progress
disseminated relevant to their needs and  reports.
satisfied with multi-media support



25
Narrative Summary                    Targets/Key Verifiable Indicators         Means of Verification           Important Assumptions
C. Institutional Development
*  Strengthened research management   *  100% of NARO managers trained on      *  Project progress reports; HRD   *  NARO management provides
capacity of NARO                     management skills by end of project;      evaluation report; training     close supervision and timely
75% NARO staff trained on research,      evaluation reports; M&E and      interventions.
PRA, extension topics by mid-term and    MIS reports                  *  Adequate fimds are provided in a
end of project; M&E and MIS systems                                      timely manner
fully operational by end of Year 1.                                   *  Good M&E and MIS systems are
*  No. per year of research projects     *  University research progress     in place
*  Strengthened research and training   implemented by MU researchers jointly     reports; training evaluation  *  Clients, especially fariners,
capacity of agriculture faculties of  with NARO; 25% MU researchers            reports.                        adequately participate in NARO
Makerere University                  trained on technical topics by mid-term                                   programs and activities
and 50% at end of project                                             *  NARO partners (extension,
*  High level participation of stakeholders,   *  Project progress reports;  NGOs, MU) actively participate
*  Improved participation of             especially farmers, in NARO              facilities development reports;  and committed to provide
stakeholders especially fanners in   Committees; -No. of stakeholders          cost tables                     additional resources, as required
research planning, implementation    participating in NARO research and    *  Project progress reports;    *  NARO has critical mass of staff
and monitoring.                      technology transfer programs; 80% of      collaborative program reports   to implement research and
priority activities from PRAs included in                                technology transfer programs.
outreach program.
*  FORI and NARO Secretariat facilities  *  Facilities completed and
*  Established FORI facilities and       established and operational by end of    turned over to NARO.
NARO Secretariat offices             project.
*  Agricultural Research and Development   *  Guidelines for the operations
*  Established and operated an           Fund operational by end of year 1;       of the ARDF, project progress
Agricultural Research and            Agricultural Research Endowment Fund     reports; guidelines and
Development Fund (ARDF)              feasibility study completed by mid-term   manuals.
of project.
*  50% are collaborative research projects
*  Provided support for collaborative    implemented through the ARDF.
research with local andlor foreign
universities and research institutes.
*  Project management Committee          *  Establishment of donor
*  Improved coordination of donors       established by end of Year.               coordination unit
financing the agricultural research..



26
Annex 2
Project Description
Project Component A - US$24.2 million
Technology Development and Adaptation: The project will finance: (i) adaptive research and
development activities address specific production constraints and opportunities, (ii) new priorities
identified in the review of the National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan of 1991 which
responds to serious emerging problems identified in subsequent annual assessment and priority setting
exercises; and (iii) establishment of an ARDF to support a competitive research grants scheme. ARTP
II would finance recurrent expenditures, short-term training, procurement of goods and services, civil
works for repair and maintenance of research institutes and the construction of the Forestry Research
Institute.
Project Component B - US$15.9 million
Outreach, Extension and Technology Dissemination: ARTP II would give priority to demand-driven,
client-oriented research and promote the active participation of stakeholders, especially farmers and the
private agribusiness sector, in research planning, implementation, and beneficiary impact assessment.
NARO will give the highest priority to the development and transfer of technologies that address actual
constraints of the dominant production systems of Uganda. During the initial years, the project would
focus on moving on-the-shelf technologies existing at research institutes, into farmers' fields. The
project will provide funds to the districts to enable them to "buy" improved technologies and technical
support services. NARO's capacity in development communications will be enhanced. Financing will
also be provided to allow NARO to decentralize research planning, management, and infrastructure
through the establishment and operation of 8 Agricultural Research and Development Centers
(ARDCs). The project will finance the appointment of a new Deputy Director General who will be in
charge of outreach and technology dissemination activities. He will be assisted by a fully staffed
Outreach and Extension Unit at the NARO Secretariat on technical supervision, and general oversight
over the outreach, extension and technology dissemination program. The project will also finance
incremental recurrent costs for training of district extension staff, field trials and demonstrations and
field days, procurement of goods and services, and the preparation of the proposed Agricultural
Extension Project II.
Project Component C - US$31.9 million
Institutional Development. The project will support the: (i) transformation of NARO into a research
and development institution to give equal importance to its role in promoting the transfer and adoption
of improved technologies and practices, (ii) updating of the National Agricultural Research Strategy
and Plan of 1991 with the participation of a broad spectrum of clients, e.g., farmers, agro-industries,
NGOs and districts, in the light of the Government's policies on agricultural modernization, poverty
eradication, and decentralization; and (iii) strengthening of NARO's capacity to monitor, evaluate and
determine economic impact of improved technologies. ARTP II will finance short-term training,
recurrent expenditures and staff emoluments, procurement of goods and services, and civil works for
the rehabilitation of the NARO Secretariat headquarters.



27
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                       Local         Foreign       Total
.......I...............   US   $  million
A. Technology Dev. and Adaptation        18.6          5.1          23.7
B. Outreach, Extension and               13.2          2.5          15.7
Technology Dissemination
C. Institutional Development            26.1           5.3          31.4
Total                                    57.9         12.9          70.8
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies             ---         ---           ---
Price Contingencies                0.0          1.2           1.2
Total Project Cost                       57.9         14.1          72.0
Component by Financiers
(US $ million)
Components                        GOU          IDA           Other Donors  Total
A. Technology Development and     6.0           6.6          11.6          24.2
Adaptation
B. Outreach, Extension and         0.1          6.1           9.7          15.9
Technology Dissemination
C. Institutional Development      13.9         13.3           4.7          31.9
Total Financing            20.0         26.0          26.0          72.0
The amount for Institutional Development includes NARO staff emoluments of around US$ 22
million equivalent, for the different research institutes and centers.



28
Annex 4
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Future minimum levels of incremental in total factor productivity in Ugandan agriculture required to justify all
agricultural research expenditures during ARTP I and ARTP II is 1.25% (assuming a research, development, and
adoption lag of 13 years).
Returns at the research program level
Maize              Beans              Cassava         Matoke Bananas
ERR                   34%                45%                 44%                 15%
NPV (12%;             19.7                60.0               174.5               12.4
million US$)
Main Assumptions:
*      Yield increases due to improved technical packages range from 33% to 67% for the respective crops.
*      Adoption ceilings for annual crops lie between 33% (maize, beans) and 50% (cassava); for bananas, the
adoption ceiling of new varieties and improved practices is set at 5% of the total banana acreage, based on
estimates of researchers in the respective research programs.
*      The time until the adoption ceiling is reached is set at 10 years (maize, cassava) and 12 years (beans) for
annual crops, and 20 years for bananas.
*      Cassava and Matoke bananas are valued at the average domestic farm gate price because they are not
exported; maize and beans are valued at their export unit value, con-verted to Ugandan Shillings at the real
exchange rate.
*      Research and extension costs were increased by a factor of 50% to account for cost components such as
salaries, benefits, and overhead costs for national headquarters, administration, libraries, etc.
*      All nominal values of the net benefit stream are based on constant 1997 prices using the Consumer Price
Index (CPI) for Uganda.
Sensitivity Analysis for Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC)/Switching Values of Critical Items:
Switching values for OCC = 12%
Maize             Beans            Cassava        Matoke Bananas
Yield increase of
improved technical            -49%              -70%             -80.75%             -25%
packages
Output price                  -74%              -84%              -91%               -30%
Adoption ceiling             -92.50%           -94.50%           -97.50%             -40%
Additional non-labor         +375%             +760%             +1,385%            +110%
production costs
Research/ extension         +1,100%           +1,675%            +3,500%            +70%
costs
Yield increase + adoption     -46%              -63%              -74%             -17.50%
ceiling
Output price + adoption     -62.50%             -72%              -81%               -20%
ceiling                 __                _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _  _     _     ____ ____files.
Details of the cost benefit analysis is provided in the project files.



29
Annex 5
Financial Summary
(US$ million)
Implementation Period           Operational Period
1999-2004                                         l
Project Costs
Investment Costs               19,8                                   6 years
Recurrent Costs                52.2                                   6 years
Total                       72.0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                        26.0 (36.1%)                               6 years
Co-financiers
Govemment
Central                 20.0 (27.8%)                               6 years
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Other donors               26.0 (36.1%)                               6 years
Total                       72.0



30
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.     All procurement of goods and works would be done in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, works and services would be used. All
procurement of consultant services would be done in accordance with "Guidelines, Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 edition, revised in September 1997 and January 1999."
Bank's Standard Requests for Proposals will be used. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and
must be published in the UN Development Business immediately after negotiations. The GPN would be
updated annually. Specific Procurement Notices will also be required for consulting service contracts above
US$200,000 prior to the preparation of the short list. For details on project costs by procurement arrangements
refer to Table A.
(a)    Civil Works: All civil works contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or more for construction of research
facilities and rehabilitation of offices will be awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in
accordance with the Guidelines. Contracts costing less than US$50,000, including rehabilitation of facilities for
the Agricultural Research and Development Centers (ARDCs) up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000
equivalent may be awarded on the basis of soliciting quotations from at least three local contractors.
(b)    Goods and Equipment: To the extent possible, contracts for goods, such as vehicles, equipment
(office, laboratory and field), computers, and furniture shall be grouped into packages estimated to cost
US$ 100,000 equivalent or more and will be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Domestic
preference will be applicable. Contracts estimated to cost between US$30,000 and US$100,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000 will be procured through NCB. Goods and equipment estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$700,000 equivalent may be procured
through shopping procedures by soliciting at least three quotations from different suppliers. National shopping
for regular operation and maintenance or miscellaneous items will follow IDA guidelines.
(c)    Services: The category of "Services" includes consulting services, technical assistance, engineering
design and supervision of works, training, linkage activities and contracted research through the Agricultural
Research and Development Fund. All consulting service contracts costing more than US$100,000 equivalent
for firms will be awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting service
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for firms will be awarded through the Consultants'
Qualifications selection method. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under
individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines.
(d)    IDA prior review: Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each civil works contract estimated
to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or
more will be subject to IDA prior review as per para 2 Appendix I of the Guidelines. Other contracts will be
subject to post review in accordance with para 4 Appendix I of the Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing
US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms will be subject to IDA prior review. With respect to each contract for
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its
prior review. All single-source selection of consultants, terms of reference for consulting services and overseas
training will be subject to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to non-prior review contracts raising
their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds will be subject to IDA clearance.



31
(e)    Procurement Plans: The Bank's standard bidding documents for works and goods, and the Standard
Request for Proposals (RFP) for consulting services as well as the Standard Bid/RFP Evaluation Forms will be
used. An overall Procurement Plan, including a detailed procurement plan for the first and second year of the
project, showing processing time for each contract, would be agreed at negotiations. By March 31 each year,
NARO would update the overall Procurement Plan and prepare a detailed Annual Procurement Plan for the
following year.
Disbursement
Annex 6, Table C shows the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit. The proceeds of IDA Credit of
US$26 million equivalent would be disbursed over a 6 year period, and a period of four months after the closing
date would be allowed to make payments for the expenditures actually incurred until the closing date. The
annual estimated disbursements are given on page 1 of the Project Appraisal Document.
(a)    Statement of Expenditures: Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation,
except for items of expenditures for: (a) goods contracts or purchase orders costing less than the equivalent of
US$100,000; (b) civil works contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent; (c) consultant service contracts
for individual contracts below US$50,000 and contracts for firms below US$100,000 equivalent, and (d) local
training costs which would be based on statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for
SOEs should be kept at a suitable location and readily accessible for IDA review at any time.
(b)    Special Account: To facilitate disbursements, a Special Accounts in US dollars would be established
and operated at a local commercial Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon Credit
effectiveness, a sum of US$1.5 million would be deposited by IDA into this account. Further deposits by IDA
into this account would be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
(c)    Audit: The NARO fmancial statements, including the project accounts, SOEs and the two Special
Accounts would be audited each year by the Auditor General of Uganda or by extemal auditors acceptable to
IDA. The auditor's reports and certificates in respect of each of the statements of accounts would be furnished
to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The terms of reference for the yearly audit and
formats for the audit report will be in accordance with Appendices XVIII to XXII of the Financial Accounting
Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH), January 1995.
(d)    Accounting and Financial Management: A financial management and accounting system was
established under the ongoing ARTP. It has recently been computerized and will allow decentralization of
responsibilities for financial operations to the research institutes and the ARDCs. A financial and accounting
management manual has been prepared to provide operating procedures and reporting formats. The Auditor
General will conduct an annual audit of the NARO institutional accounts, including SOEs, project accounts, and
the Special Accounts for the project and the ARDF. The Government will provide the annual audit report to
IDA within 6 months of close of the Government fiscal year. The manual for the financial management and
accounting system of NARO has been reviewed and subject it was determined that disbursements under the
project would qualify under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).



32
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                 (including
contingencies)
ICB     NCB    Shopping   Other   N.B.F
1. Works                              2.340     0.200             0.489       3.029
(2.107)   (0.180)                      (2.287)
2. Goods                      1.185    0.500    0.700              3.448      5.833
(1.185)  (0.500)   (0.630)                      (2.315)
3. Services                                               3.314    7.164      10.478
(3.314)             (3.314)
4. Miscellaneous                                          37.761   14.899     52.660
(18.084)            (18.084)
Total                      1.185    2.840     0.900    41.075   26.000     72.000
(1.185)  (2.607)   (0.810)  (21.398)           (26.000)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Procurements under NBF will be govemed by the terms and conditions of the agreements between
GOU and the co-financiers.



33
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value        Procurement   Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)            Method         Prior Review/
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ million                             US $ millions
1. Works
$50,000 or more            NCB           $200,000 or more
Below $50,000              Shopping
2. Goods                                                       _
Over $100,000              ICB           All
Over $30,000 up to $100,000   NCB
Below $30,000              Shopping
3. Services
Over $100,000 (Firns)      QCBS          All
Below $100,000 (Firms)     CQ            TOR
_____________ Over $50,000 (Individuals)  CQ            All
r____________ Below $5,000 (Individuals)    CQ         TOR
i___________ X Any Amount                 Single-source  All



34
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in million     Financing Percentage
SDR
1. Civil Works                           1.65 (2.28)         90 %
2. Vehicles, Goods and Equipment         1.70 (2.33)         100% of FC, 90% of LC
3. Consultant Services and Studies       1.00 (1.36)         100%
4. Training                              1.25 (1.70)         100%
5. Incremental Recurrent costs
(a) Local staff salaries             6.20 (8.44)          50% in Years 1, 2 and 3
after effectiveness, 40%
in years 4 and 5 and
30 %thereafter
(b) Operation & maintenance (including   4.85 (6.60)      100% up to SDR3.7
US$2.00 million equivalent support for                    million equivalent and
agricultural extension)                                   90% thereafter
6. Other Items
(a) Agricultural Research Fund        0.40 (0.50)          100%
(b) Refunding of Project Preparation  0.45 (0.60)         Amount due.
Advance
7. Unallocated                           1.60 (2.19)
Total 19.1 (26.00)
(SDR= 1.36202)
Note: FC = Foreign costs; LC = Local costs



35
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                 Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$186,000
B. Project Schedule                        Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project             9                        11
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)       7/24/1998                06/24/1998
Appraisal mission departure               11/15/1998               11/09/1998
Negotiations                              1/25/1999                03/30/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness             5/25/1999                07/01/1999
Prepared by: National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO)
Preparation assistance: FAO/CP, ISNAR
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Edgardo Quisumbing               Senior Agriculturist (Task Team Leader)
Kafu Awunyo                      Senior Council
Hyacinth Brown                   Financial Management Specialist
Derek Byerlee                    Principal Economist (peer reviewer)
Graeme Donovan                   Principal Economist (quality assurance)
Dely Gapasin                     Agriculturist (peer reviewer)
Gesa Horskotte-Wesseler          Agricultural Economist
Jaakko Kangasniemi               Agricultural Specialist
Jacob Kampen                     Principal Agriculturist (quality assurance)
Rogati Kayani                    Senior Procurement Specialist (quality assurance)
Joseph Mubiru-Kizito             Financial Management Specialist
Satish Kumar                     Senior Agricultural Extension Specialist
Mbuba Mbungu                     Senior Procurement Specialist
David Nielson                    Economist
Helena Nkole                     Operations Analyst
Mohammed Noor                    Agriculturist (peer reviewer)
Seljan Riddle                    Planning and Budgeting Specialist
Taqi Sharif                      Senior Financial Analyst
Almaz Teklesenbet                Team Assistant
Moctar Toure                     Executive Secretary, SPAAR (Lead peer reviewer)
Palitha Wij esinghe              Senior Disbursement Officer



36
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Final Draft November 1998
Training Plan
Procurement Manual
Procurement Plan
Financial Management and Internal Controls
Monitoring and Evaluation
Priority Research Program FYl999/2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Technical Report on the National Fisheries Research Program
Technical Report on the National Soil Fertility and Management Program
Technical Report on the National Livestock Research and Development Program
Consultant's Report on NARO's Integrated Pest Management Program
Consultant's Report on NARO's Horticulture Research Program
C. Other
Detailed Economic Analysis of the Project
Financial assessment of ARTP II -Oxford Policy Management, UK
Improving rural livelihoods in N and E Uganda through innovative technology generation
and dissemination (DFID Project Document, November 1998)
Fiscal and Financial Analyses
Guidelines for the Operation of the Agricultural Research and Development Fund
Procurement Manual
Report on the Technical Workshop for the Modernization of Agriculture,
September 14-16, 1998
Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture, December 1998.



37
Annex 9
A Concept Note
Seeking Agricultural Growth Through Enhanced Relevance of Research and Extension
Background
Agriculture in Uganda has grown steadily (over 4% per annum) for over ten years. The recent
growth has accompanied a profound re-orientation of the public sector's role in the agricultural economy.
This re-orientation included significant liberalization of the agricultural economy and complementary
institutional reforms which down-sized, privatized, and decentralized public agricultural institutions.
While the recent growth provides momentum for rural development in Uganda, it builds from a very low
base. Real agricultural GDP in the early 1990s had yet to re-attain the level achieved in 1970. The real
incomes of rural people today are still well below their 1970s levels.
The main sources of agricultural growth over the past ten years - expansion of area under
cultivation, and a substantial improvement of incentives for farmers to produce - have largely been played
out as sources of sustained growth. While area expansion will continue for some time, land is becoming
scarcer and expansion will not be able to keep pace with population growth in rural areas. Even if it could,
the growth impact of expansion would diminish over time as it is primarily marginal and remote lands
which are available for exploitation. Consequently, area expansion by itself will not even be sufficient to
maintain rural per capita incomes at their present levels.
The other source of recent growth in the sector, improvement in the incentive regime, came from
the liberalization of the economy. Further gains can still be made through improving the functioning of
agricultural commodity markets and reducing marketing margins. While such gains will help to create a
growth-nurturing environment, they will be of a "one-shot" nature. They will not provide a sustained
impetus for continuous growth in the sector.
The Need for Higher Productivity and Higher-Valued Products
As area expansion and further gains in the incentive regime are unlikely to support sustained
growth in the future, Uganda must look to other sources of growth for the agricultural sector if rural
development is to continue. The two possible sources for growth are, on the one hand, increases in the
productivity of land and labor, and on the other hand, a shift in production pattems from low-value staples
to higher value commodities. Past growth occurred without the support of either. Since the sixties, land
and labor productivity have both suffered secular decline while production patterns have exhibited a
structural shift towards relatively low-valued food crops. There is great scope for improvement on both
counts. With agriculture being the principle economic activity in rural areas, it is here that the
Government's strategy2 for the revitalization of rural development is anchored.
The first pillar of the strategy, increasing agricultural productivity, focuses on transforming
Uganda's "low-input low-output" agriculture into a modern science-based agriculture capable of sustaining
growth in the sector and raising the incomes of farm families. At the level of the farm, this would require
better access to improved technologies and to modem inputs. It would also require increases in farmer
know-how.
The second broad pillar of the strategy focuses upon helping production patterns to shift from low-
value staples to higher-valued commodities. Here, Uganda has an important factor in its favor - the long
tradition on farms in many parts of the country to produce at least small amounts of coffee for market. The
2 The Govermnent's strategy for growth in the agricultural sector is laid out in its December 1998 presentation to the
Consultative Group entitled: Towards a Sector Wide Approach: Developing a Framework for the
Modernization of Agriculture in Uganda.



38
strategy would be one of seeking to build upon and expand this tradition of partial market-orientation. The
strategy would seek ways to help farmers to produce a variety of products, some of them of higher value for
commercialization in order to be able to increase their household incomes. Some of the measures
necessary to pursue this strategy are similar or complementary to those required to raise productivity. At
the level of the fanm, they would include acquiring the knowledge of how to produce and to market higher-
value crops, greater access to the required inputs, and better access to reliable outlets for such products.
The public sector has a role to play in creating the conditions under which these transformations
can occur at the level of the farm. This is recognized in the Government's Statement to the December 1998
Consultative Group Meeting entitled: Towards a Sector Wide Approach: Developing a Frameworkfor the
Modernization of Agriculture in Uganda (or, more simply, the Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture)
which calls for public sector investments and programs in a number of areas including the following:
(a)    agricultural research and extension;
(b)   the establishment and maintenance of a regulatory and policy environment in which
markets and distribution chains for modem inputs (including credit, fertilizer, seeds,
equipment, etc) and for farm products can develop more fully;
(c)   improved rural and agricultural education;
(d)   the establishment of clearer property rights to land in order to encourage investment and
efficient use of natural resources; and,
(e)    development of infrastructure such as rural roads which will be needed for growth in the
marketing of both inputs and outputs.
A Focus on the Relevance of Agricultural Research and Extension
While public sector support is needed for a variety of activities if agricultural growth is to be
achieved, as indicated above, Uganda's Plan for the Modernization of Agriculture (henceforth PAMA)
assigns first priority to agricultural extension and research. Further, focus is placed on achieving greater
relevance in both the research and extension programs. The analysis underlying the PvMA suggests that the
low productivity observed in Ugandan agriculture today is not the consequence of a lack of research
activity, nor of a lack of extension activity. In fact, well-established institutions are reasonably active in
both research and extension. Rather, the low productivity of Ugandan farmers can be traced to a lack of
adequate interface between research and extension, on the one hand, and farmers on the other.
Correspondingly, at present, farmers' needs do not sufficiently drive the orientation of research and
extension efforts (causing lack of relevance), while the know-how and the technologies which are produced
by the system, even when relevant, are not widely taken up by farmers (suggesting lack of effectiveness in
the transfer of technologies).
Based on this analysis, the emphasis of Uganda's strategy is being placed upon improving the
relevance as well as the effectiveness of the process of technology generation and transfer, i.e. of the
agricultural research and extension programs. This means redoubling efforts in the extension area, but now
under institutional arrangements which have been transformed to ensure that extension would become
more directly responsive to farmers' needs. It also suggests maintaining the program of investments in
agricultural research, but as in extension, now under a set of institutional arrangements transformed so as to
improve the responsiveness of agricultural research activities to the needs of extensionists and of the
farmers they serve.
The basic components of the Government's vision for more relevant and responsive programs in
agricultural research and extension are presented in the M4P and include the following:
*     focusing the content of both programs on enhancing intensification and productivity of
small-holder agriculture;



39
*      increasingly, bringing research closer to (and even into) farmers fields;
*      making linkages between farmers, extensionists, and researchers more demand driven;
*      further decentralization of responsibilities for extension to the level of the sub-counties;
*      contracting out field extension, technical-backstopping, and training of extensionists;
*      allowing for a plurality of providers and methodologies at the field level; and
*      learning from, and building on, successful experiences (SG2000, IDEA, UNFA, etc.).
The vision which emerges from the MAP is widely shared among the various stakeholders
including government officials, farmers, NGOs and civil society, and the community of donors. The
vision, enunciated in this way, suggests that attention be given to the institutional designs of both the
research and the extension programs in order that the two programs would be characterized by the guiding
principles underlying the vision. The guiding principles implicit within the vision as outlined in the AlP
are presented below, followed by a presentation of the elements which must be present in the institutional
framework in order that it might embody these principles.
Principles to Ensure Relevance and Effectiveness in Research
A set of guiding principles have been identified in the MAP as necessary conditions to ensure that the
research is both relevant and effective as an input into development. The principles, which focus primarily
on the outreach function of the research program, include the following:
1. Decentralized Administration of Some Research/Outreach Functions. District governments,
with the participation of sub-counties, extensionists, farmers, civil society, and the private sector
manage and control some elements of the design, the administration and governance, the
execution, and the evaluation of research programs based at the district level (in former DFIs).
Anticipated Benefits:
* Local people (beneficiaries) hold researchers responsible for results;
e Researchers are more responsive to farmers' and extensionists' needs;
e Clients provide feedback on research processes and results; and
e Research better reflect farmers' own knowledge of local conditions and practices.
2. Outsourcing of Some Research and Outreach Services. Some research and outreach activities
are contracted-out by the districts from providers other than NARO.
Anticipated Benefits:
Research and Outreach become more operationally efficient;
Researchers and Technicians are more accountable for their performance and results; and,
* A plurality of providers can be employed to deliver research and outreach services.
3. Some Research and Outreach Services are Cost-Shared. Costs of research and outreach
activities are shared between national government, local governments, fanners' associations,
NGOs and/or donors, the private sector, and eventually individual farmers themselves. Anticipated
Benefits:
Budgetary burden on national government is reduced;
* Local and national capacity for sustaining extension programs is strengthened; and
* Paying clients (i.e., local governments, etc.) are empowered to hold researchers and technicians
accountable to provide relevant, effective services.
4.     Research and Outreach are Integrated at Field-level with Extension. Funding mechanisms are
created to allow farmers and extensionists to attract researchers to work with them on collaborative



40
applied research on farmers' fields. Formal and informal means are established to ensure that farmers
have a voice in decisions affecting research priorities, funding, execution, and evaluation.
Anticipated Benefits:
* Farmers, extensionists, and researchers learn from each other in the field;
*  Research becomes relevant to the constraints and opportunities of farmers.
Principles to Ensure Relevance and Effectiveness in Extension
The set of guiding principles implicit in the MAP for extension include the following:
1. Decentralized Administration of Field Extension Services. Through local organizations and
governments, farmers participate in designing, funding, goveming, executing, and evaluating extension
programs and in defining the needs that extension addresses. Extensionists live in the communities
they serve.
Anticipated Benefits:
*  Farmers can hold extensionists responsible for results;
*  Extensionists are responsive to farmers' needs;
* Extensionists earn trust and credibility; and
*  Extension programs reflect farmers' own knowledge of local conditions and practices.
2. Outsourced Extension Services. Extension is contracted-out rather than delivered by civil
servants.
Anticipated Benefits:
*  Extension is more operationally efficient;
•  Extensionists are more accountable for their performance and results;
*  A plurality of providers can be employed to deliver extension services; and
*  Extension is more flexible to promote extension staff for good performance and to dismiss
extension staff for poor performance.
3. Extension Services are Cost-Shared. Costs of extension are shared with local governments, with
farmers' associations, with NGOs and/or donors, and eventually with individual farmers
themselves. Anticipated Benefits:
* Budgetary burden on national government is reduced;
• Local and national capacity for sustaining extension programs is strengthened; and
* Paying clients (i.e., local governments, etc.) are empowered to hold extensionists accountable
to provide relevant, effective services.
Institutional Framework for Agricultural Research and Extension
The extent to which the research program and the extension program will be characterized by the
principles presented above is determined by the institutional structures of the two programs. An
institutional framework for the research program as well as for the extension program which is designed to
allow the principles outlined above to be realized in practice is presented in the sections that follow. With
regard to research, the discussion here is focussed primarily upon the outreach ftmction and the activities
involved in the process of technology transfer and does not provide a complete presentation of the
institutional framework for the research function itself. The presentation is organized by level of
government.
National Level. Under the reorganized Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry, and Fisheries
(MAAIF), the National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) would be responsible for both
agricultural research and extension at the national level. NARO would be organized into two Directorates



41
of equal rank - a Directorate for Research, and a Directorate for Outreach and Technology Dissemination
each headed by a Deputy Director General. The responsibilities of these two directorates would include:
(a)     The Directorate for Research - to undertake, promote, and streamline research in
agriculture, livestock, fisheries, and forestry;
(b)     The Directorate for Outreach and Technology Dissemination - to facilitate the
dissemination and adoption of research results; and, to coordinate and/or provide technical,
capacity-building, training, and financial support to District and Sub-County extension
programs.
Under the coordination of NARO, and where technical expertise exists, the Crops and Livestock
Resources Directorates of MAAIF will: provide technical backstopping and training to District and Sub-
County extension programs; assist with monitoring and evaluation of extension activities; and, participate
in national extension policy formulation and planning.
In support of extension activities, the Directorate for Outreach and Technology Dissemination
would oversee the provision of conditional matching grants channeled directly from the Ministry of
Finance to Districts to be used to:
(1)    pass on to Sub-Counties on a matching grant basis to be used in contracting
extensionists at that level; and
(2)    cover the expenses of maintaining and operating an extension coordinating office
at the District level within the LC5 structure.
With respect to NARO's outreach function and the linkages between research and extension, some
funds from the conditional matching grant would be used by the District to support the agricultural
activities of the districts and to pay for the services of NARO and other sources of technology and technical
knowledge (such as Makerere University, NGOs, private sector, etc.) to provide training, technical
assistance, applied research, and technology verification and transfer at the field level. These activities
would be coordinated at the ARDCs and to some extent by the ADCs. Advisory boards would govern this
support so that farmers and extensionists would have a say in the way these funds are used.



42
Extension and Outreach Functions to be Carried Out by NARO
-00~~~~~~~W                t.. ..... .g,.g  ggsg gS5,gw gg,
,,~~~ . R '   . .                                                          .. . .   E. . ..~ 555 si
_~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
i ~ ~ ~ ~ ..  ...     wg .iso ......f .. .U O fsigg                       g     , g  g-.w.S   .. .e-
>                                               ; ;S;   gxe   s    H § 00  , .g0ffiW0m .am. i-5wiK2ia§itg L ....................................... w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   .    . ...   .. - - - - - - - - -
llcnlganOurahCnesi18Districts. Agricultural thcnoom  development,~s  - 
4inati~~~ ~in4   r~~:eg   ..lcy ........ .-. 
.gicult.ralResearcih and~ Development Centers   ~ (ADs@wrned.andpea.te by  NARO and.linked to
NARO'sninde resea intiuts. Ths   RDswl b   salihdi a  goeclgcloeb
Tchnoting  rearnc  Outre  centera   thein efrts inas.t Agritculotal teovernmg  development,
constrationts and dismntoonspportunte and feeoingteladaptivel exensearhondit bevlcomplisednthproughram systmi)
rcutracing       h ford DevelopmentaC ote identrs (Awed tivitieds   Operates, M and Unkedsto
other entitiesearch insti-tuto Thesen r          es     tablshedn aagrotes andog (icali) provi
trabing,ainfgsormetof sth  an ete         ingt Distedcto Nan                   anty exthen   ArDCs.
seRDCs twol alorhe Disridcts soundatialof theds, plantricgmteras arecvrd. Throed ARClilpoivesoc bresystematico
ponti icationc byestehers Eseay, exten    sin ists and faers, Initiealof the ARDCs  will b te gve actua
Tend chinologyeandh Outreallchncentraeteirefrs in 18sDistricts. h Agrculual tehnology developmdent,fin
validain,s and doisosemition ind suelpportofe adaptive research and  t v be acomplRshed progr   at ytem
ontraRsTine researhininstitut. DFtheseARs will be  act iest a  bsed   in s Antgroi-coltu l    oene  byiven t   or
(ADCs) oentities wit the lcapalt tovernlmentrsiclabrchatindwt deeopmnors ADCtiiis,wl hand thei proiding
trai ni ngt aingometofn t e8rt and texi thing l witc aed ben  Ditrivest and to nubr   hanty eo ten ARnDogiesw
aRdve  wo   o producis tracticts so    seatedalo  te5Dtict are and    covered.ohed fares w   preovds ssematlricg
mpontspofation  betwee arkesers     , extensionists, and   faremin ers pnao l, gof the ARDCs will  be    anCtl
copanducti     tng     sude adaptive research b cat D eors ikes siom the loc al gOvernme nts in (in at g the
cnistration and o runities and devrrelop    the aApRCseArC and developmen pgredam,n  a
coTracin frtemaimplementation of tehebidentified andctivirties ito NAgrinstitutes, Maereropen Ueniversit,o
other oentities wit the lcapait tovimplmentsi reseabrchatindwt deeopment ADCtivities hand the proiding
rsosbltoftraining,nomto supportsannd otehnricanaktoppingbtoeDistarict and Sub-Counethtyipoe extnsinoprograms.
aRdC willualson produicesr fudaionsemiaeds pandaotingb smatralshande iamproved livestok Breedsaia foatrin
multiplication byo stakeoners. evtentuallyt, asd staff sarehinolace,s somed gofe the ARDCswl begvnd anCs
expanded role toeincludeadaptniveiresarc AnDCsAC woulmaes onrome dofos Nas reseralc pgrogrntam ato the
(adCins)tprateo ad byncthen loa goecrrmenots in collAbRatonwihdoor.ADCs will hedteavreted prmogary



43
stakeholders, including the donors. These relationships will be further developed during implementation of
ARTP-II and in the design of AEP-II.
Functions of Technology and Outreach Centers (ARDC/ADC)
........ ..
i.W
*~~ "uni -X qan     W            , af- Xg  
s. ~ ~ ~       Sfoi5-z2¢ 4   ''O-. "2""          '
4  aCn                                                                                                 k ~f 
District Level. District Extension Coordinating Of fices would be funded in part through
conditional matching grants received from the Ministry of Finance, and in part from the District's own
budget. These offices would maintain a small administrative and technical staff and would be responsible
to carry out administrative, supervisory, and technical backstopping functions with regard to sub-county
level extension programs in the respective District. These of fices would also manage District financial
contributions to the operation of the relevant ARDC and would manage the requests and demands for
assistance required from the ARDCs.
'                          'vVo.'~~~~~'  '  g' S..,   , 5;  "fo  > S'
ss.;~~n . .p   : .S.  >s: vs  ss .s.is   &vRi i .    ttK          S t                       '4'
".iriaST wtkTn                         _                 kW PWiso  6Ti 1topgd
'.',z,  n''X
M2                                                                                                S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
a'  Idwi  vtilgNes -s
'.Armnge _rainin  Events u=uig &~nftacted Piuviders t& tli~xt~it possible 
... F                          __~~~~~~~~
:_f                                                                                          -.;.>f~~~~~~
i :.......... SSSSSigy    S.................................................  i,.i.f .,A->.      
;,      ,  ......................................., ,.f.  sfi.- r...... ii.-5vAfs :5 ...... .;  S..Y;55e5iW.ii,fI:..:,,.::
r5  ,,.,,a...................................................... X,, ....,  TW ,S,
Ditrc Lee.: Ditrc Exeso  Corintn  Ofie wol be fude  in par thogh
codtoa matcin  grant reeie  fro  the MSinistyo incead in part from the DitictS Sown
bugt                     =_s fie   ol   ananasalamnsrtieadtcnclsafadwudb  epnil



44
Sub-County Level. Teams of extensionists would be contracted to carry out extension at the
Sub-County level. Sub-County governments (LC-3s) through their Production Committees would be
responsible to contract extensionists to implement field-level extension services. As appropriate,
extension delivery for a Sub-County could be out-sourced to a private extension provider, to a local
NGO, to a farmers' association, or to other entities with the capacity to deliver the desired extension
services.
.                                      _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
Effon*; hCie 54Ut 2t ste tv_ = s.  SO
S~~BSr4#uttefu  ^tttggB A Sn...., tk1>w
O to     ,s/,.S.wsf  i.2x,g     .n.s.ds..f.iL.ioi5$Mg. ¢>gvs:.,,:siss,..,s2s.s.g SgS~g
,C5g9nt. psi5 on jfg s ssBgss g           gs s5gssSS&s fg{sB pigSof$U5fAEafgitgr%osoMrfo 4  ev
* Fg.ZM4ws;e5s N    s>w.CstdfsUdSs.T h xus. s,,.ss sgsghg5fi555,gs -ss  -af2 
--..   0 g  
'gs>  ieWi ...24P 1 ss .a ,;  .   Ig .giBi^V< . d-g¢  gSs <   g se



45
Institutional Framework
Miityof           i x               s N  ofO 0
Financel                             fI.
|WorldBank                      Central Bank                         Agriculture  I
I$\$
District
Government              X-_trkt
$ ~ Ag c 1tra
$                                                         I
Sub-County
Government
I
$   ~~~    Su..b-County                                                             ____
info i  oPn i ate
f arp6 ~ ~    ~ ~ Cman  et.



46
Annex 10
Statement of Loans and Credits
(in millions of US Dollars)
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Loan or     Fiscal
Credit No.    Year                Borrower                          Purpose
IBRD        IDA        Cancellations    Undisbursed
IDA31150      1999    GOVT. OF UGANDA                     ICB-PAMSU                            0.00        12.37             0.00          12.15
IDA30490      1998   GOV                                  EDUC SECTOR ADJ CRED                 0.00        80.00             0.00          79.03
IDA30520      1998    GOVERNMENTOFUGANDA                  NUTRIT.CHILDDEV                      0.00        34.00             0.00          33.37
IDA29870      1998    REPUBLIC OF UGANDA                  ROAD SECT/INST.SUPP                  0.00        30.00             0.00          28.83
IDA30640      1998    GOVERNMENTOFUGANDA                  ELNINOEMERGRDREP                     0.00        27.60             0.00          27.37
IDANO230      1997    GOVT. OF UGANDA                     SAC III                              0.00       125.00             0.00          77.81
IDA29090      1997    GOVT. OF UGANDA                     LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                   0.00        12.10             0.00          10.51
IDA27770      1996   GOVERNMENT                           ENVIRONMENT                          0.00        11.80             0.00           7.37
MANAGEMT
IDA27980      1996   GOU                                  PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                 0.00        12.30             0.00           7.89
IDA26790      1995    GOVERNMENT                          DISTRICTHEALTH                       0.00        45.00             0.00          29.42
IDA27360      1995    GOVERNMENT                          INST. CAPACITY BLDG                  0.00        36.40             0.00          19.16
IDA25870      1994    GOVT.                               TRANSP. REHAB.                       0.00        75.00             0.00          45.18
IDA25830      1994    GOVERNMENT                          SMALL TOWNS WATER                    0.00        42.30             0.00          25.12
IDA26030      1994    GOVERNMENT                          SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                      0.00        50.00             0.00          27.35
IDA26090      1994    GOU                                 COTTON SECTOR DEVELO                 0.00        14.00             0.00           5.43
IDA24460      1993    GOVERNMENT                          AGRIC. RES & TRG.                    0.00        25.04             0.00           4.47
IDA24930      1993    GOVERNMENT                          PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC                 0.00        52.60             0.00          26.97
IDA24180      1993    GOVERNMENT                          ECON & FINANCIAL MAN                 0.00        29.00             0.00            .24
IDA24240      1993    MINIS. AGRIC ANINMAL                AGRIC. EXTENSION PRO                 0.00        15.79             0.00            .98
IDA23150      1992    GOVERNMENT                          ENTERPRISE                           0.00        65.60            23.75           8.35
DEVELOPMENT
IDA23620      1992   GOVERNMENT                           NORTHERN                             0.00        71.20             0.00           1.87
RECONSTRUCT
IDA22680      1991    GOVERNMENT                          POWER III                            0.00       125.00             0.00          41.30
IDA21760      1991    GOVT.                               LIVESTOCK                            0.00        21.00             2.22           2.69
IDA22060      1991    GOVERNMENT                          URBAN I                              0.00        28.70             0.00           4.08
0.00    1,041.80            25.97         526.94
Active Loans        Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    474.56              1,628.49             2,103.05
of which has been repaid:                         0.00               291.01               291.01
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   1,015.82             1,261.22             2,277.04
Amount sold                                          0.00                 25.82                25.82
Of which repaid                                     0.00                25.82                25.82
Total Undisbursed                                  526.94                  3.80               530.74
a.       Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.        Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of
Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, E- = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end ofthe frst week ofthe month.



47
Annex 11
Country at a Glance
Sub-                                                 1/13S9
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Uganda      Afdca   Income       Development dlam ond-
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       20.3       614      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     330       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       6.7       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                       T
Population (%)                                         3.1        27        2.1                                      Gross
Labor force (%/q)                                      2.7        2.6       2.3     GNPer                          pross
Most recent estinate (latest yearavallable, 1991-97)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below naional poverty line)    55
Urban population (% of total population)                13        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        42        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                99        90        78
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under5)                26                  61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                   34        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    38        43        47
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of'school-agepopulation)       73        74        92               -Uganda
Male                                                  79        81       100                  Low-income group
Female                                                67        67        82
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
GDP (USS billions)                             ..      3.9        6.1       6.6     Economloratios
GrossdomesticInvestment/GDP                   6,3      8.4       16,0      15.3                     Td
Exports ofgoods and services/GDP             114      12.8       118       12.6                      rae
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    8 1      680        4.7       7.5
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                      79       82        11.1      12.3
Current account balance/GDP                            00        -8.2      -7.9     Do  stic
Interest paymentslGDP                                  0.6       0.6       0.6        mecgs                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ,    36.0        60.1      56.3     Savngs                       I
Total debt servicelexports                    61      441        200       21.0
Present value of debtVGDP                                        32.3
Present value of debtlexports                                  264,5
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.9      7.0      9.3        5.4       7.0                  Uganda
GNP per capita                       -0.2     3,7      6.6        3.0       4.1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                11.8    27.2       29.5        9.0    1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth ratesofoutputandlnvestmentI%)
(% of GOP) 
Agriculture                                  73 3     56.6       45 5      43 8     00
Industry                                      75      10.2       160       173      s+7
Manufacturing                               61        64        7.8       8.2    20
Services                                     19.2    33.2       3865      38.9                    o
Private consumption                             -     850       851        82.6    *201    D    93   94   95   96   97
General government consumption                         9 0       10.2       99 9                                 GDP
Imports of goods and services                 9 6     152       231       20.3                ._
197646  198797        1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (% -
(average annual growth)GrwhrtsoexrsadIpts(.
Agriculture                                            4.1        4.4       1.3   160
Industry                                              11.0       181       14.5    40
Manufacturing                                  .     12.2      19.7      13.5
Services                                               7 9        8.6       5.9    20 .
Private consumption                                    6.3        8 3       2.3     o      99 .
General government consumption                         61I        8.4       7 0        < -4    9=  6 9
Gross domestic tnvestment                              7.0       10.0      -2.6    L20-
Imports of goods and servces                           6.3       13.0       2.0            ,Exports    -.0-Imports
Gross national product                        1.8      7.1        9.8       6.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. I data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



48
Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domesticpnices                                 1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation 1%)
(%/. change)                                                                           so
Consumer prices                                         148.1 619 5.5    40
ImplicitGDPdeflator                                     137.3       5,7        6.6    30
20
Goveonment finace                                                                     1 0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o      _I_               _ _        _
Currentrevenue                                    .       6.7      10.1      10.5             92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                            .      -1.6       1.2       0.9                 -=GDP deflator  -.CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -4.4      -5.9       -6.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976      1986      1996       1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millIons)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      379        590       671      1s500
Coffee                                          ..     360        404       366
Cotton                                          .                  13        26
Wanufactures
Total imports (cit)                                      380      1,218     1,246
Food                                                                                   0.
Fuel and energy                                  .       61        90        92
Capital goods
Export price index (1995=100)                     -       49         75        67            91   92   93   94  9g   96   97
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..      82        107       107                 a Exports      a Impolts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..      60         71        63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986       1996      1997      Cu rrent account balance to GDP ratio (y)
(US$ millions)
Exports ot goods and services                   333      389        726       825 
Imports of goods and servces                    285      446      1,601     1,651                      >     ,   d
Resource balance                                 48       -57      -875      -826
Net income                                       -7      -44        -46       -17
Net current transfers                             2      101        421       322
Current account balance                          43        0       -500      -521     -10
Financing items (net)                           -41       39        573       653
Changes in net reserves                          -2      -39        -73      -132    -19
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                    86        480       622
Conversion rate (DEC. locaWJS$)                          10.9    1,012.8   1,058.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                         Com position of total debt, 1997 (US$ m IllIon
Total debtoutstanding anddisbursed              244    1,414      3,674     3,708
IBRD                                            3       43          0         0                      G:112
IDA                                            42      370      1,849     1,954                  F 76
Total debtservice                                20      172        150       182            E7
lBRD                                            1        5          0         0
IDA                                             0        4         21        22
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                        : 1,954
Official grants                                 5       82        338                    D:445
Official creditors                             25      121        175       207
Private creditors                               5       35         -7        -1
Foreign direct investment                       ..
Portfolio equity                                .c 394
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0         42       125      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   3       62        124       216     I- IDA    D-Othermltilateral   F - Priate
Principal repayments                            1        2          8         9          C-IMF                     G - Short-term
Netfiows                                        2       60        116       207
Interest payments                               1        6         13        13
Net transfers                                   2       54        103       194
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                            1/13/99



MAP SECTION



30'  32'                                                                                                            36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~IRED 2998
30'                         32'                                                     34.~~~~~~~½                                             UGANDA
KIOTESS U D A  N,                                                                                                                         AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH4-
7   )                            ~~~AND TRAINING PROJECT
-N  --                                    C                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH INSTITUTES:
To  -~~ Nr-r~~~OyON    'S.1(  y~~~ --         \~~7        -0 .KAWANDA AGRICULTURAL
I  *                              K~~~~~~~~~~~p            I'k       Kb ~~~~~~~~~~~~0                 NAMULONGE AGRICULTURAL AND ANIMAL PRODUCTION
01(0   Eiooe (    \~~~~~~~~*(40      /P~       1(0( 0N(                                                     SERERE AGRICULTURAL AND ANIMAL PRODUCTION
/.                                                                                                                             F b~r  > >  ORERSTRY (AT RULINDI)
/  ~ ~   YIADJUMANH   b             Kite       Moh          '~'~' fO* (40   I D ~                        9   LIVESTOCK HEALTH (AT TORORO(
DEMOCRATIC                                                                        /.I(olido                       0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FISHERIES (AT JINJA)
~~   Coop ~~~~Go   LI                  1'                                               0                     FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (AT KAMPALA)
DEMOCRATIC         T.Abo j       p                 >G                                                                                                   AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY (AT NAMALEREI
REPUBLIC                                        >   2otPu-gO9                                        N                                       k       E    MUARIK (AT KABANYOLO(
..   .  I                                     (2   Moo&    COFFEE (AT KITUZA)
2   OLi oCONGO                                                 ~0NOI+                                                                             ,,~AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTERS (ARDC):
~~>  A ; loGO  999000 ~~~~~~~~~~SERERE2-
2-                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oynog I N  tD I                           TB uoiL                                      ULINDI
0   Kolobo4  I  ~~~~j          IKULWE
ENNE i  ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~     ~       (LbeJ ® KACHWEKANO
4112imlml a                        p4-.                                 /                         ophoMITYANA
I       __   PRIMARY ROADS
~~kc                                                                                                       BALE9                     SECONDARY ROADS
.k"t ~~~~~~~~AIENa               dBo K                                                                       jO00----RAILROADS
SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
/  Bololi  o>  Eokoyo0'     / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /    *                   40*~~~~~~   S                ® ~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
I,    ISO (0  IKABARCILE                                                                        "''~~~%    To Re-9ca Ij'           ®    NATIONAL CAPITAL
- 62                                                                        (0      >-'                 - - - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
oAi,                   VAMWM~~OOIOEh REGION BOUNDARIES
Kososo   #202   Ke(oo0e 0                                           [                                   --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES 
To:   P'Ai)40(
Scot   * 19 900  'tic'                                                                             :   A~
<>  ->  roN  *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   /                   t~~~~~~~~   :                   P ~~~~~~~   K   E  N    Y  A                                            UA
-                                                                                                                       This -op c- prodocd by tAc
21'        N             T~~~~~~~~Mop 0054g0 boNe The World Se-b.
019Sf /    *o                                         ilOt                                N.    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hio mop do so( iply, c- lb. poet of
I  K.~~v0:  ::~1;jj~~~'"-i-':  ~           Th. W-Add Scab G0op, coy jedgo-ot
APRIL 191



