Page  1
CONFORMED COPY          
CREDIT NUMBER 3204-UG
Project Agreement
(Second Agricultural Research and Training Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION
Dated June 2, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3204-UG 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION (NARO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
nineteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,100,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that NARO agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
NARO, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to NARO on the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS NARO, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NARO declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural research and 
training practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NARO shall otherwise agree, NARO shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NARO shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07. of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NARO shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
NARO, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with NARO on 
said plan.
Section 2.04. NARO shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NARO shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NARO shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
NARO shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NARO of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of NARO
Section 3.01. NARO shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and agricultural research and training 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NARO shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office 
Page  3
space, plant, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and administrative practices.
Section 3.03. NARO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NARO shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
NARO shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year, including those for the Project Account, audited in 
accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and report of such 
audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, NARO shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order to enable NARO, 
not later than September 30, 1999, or such later date as the Association shall agree, 
to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association. Each 
such report shall: 
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources 
and application of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and 
show separately expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report; 
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and explain 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  4
Section, NARO shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NARO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify NARO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For NARO:
National Agricultural Research
  Organisation
39 Berkeley Road
Entebbe
Uganda
Cable address:
Telex:
AGRICULTURE
61287
ENTEBBE
NATURE UG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
Page  5
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NARO, or by 
NARO on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Director General of NARO or such other person or persons as said 
Director General shall designate in writing, and NARO shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION
By /s/ Edith Ssempala
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), subject to (a) the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating 
countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
Page  6
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods  The provisions of 
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part, goods estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Bidders for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more 
per contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 
and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more and each contract of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  7
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to (a) the modifications thereto set forth  
in paragraph 2 of this Part A, (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Consulting services for the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Consulting services for the Project which are estimated to cost less than: (i) 
$100,000 equivalent per contract for consulting firms; and (ii) $50,000 equivalent per 
contract for individual consultants, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  8
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
NARO shall:
(i)
prepare and furnish to the Association no later than June 30,1999 
a Project 
Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Association setting 
out: (A) the 
details of all procurement and disbursement 
arrangements for the Project; (B) 
performance indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, said indicators being 
subject to 
modification by agreement between the Association and NARO; (C) a 
timetable for the establishment of the ARDCs; (D) details of the institutional 
structure of the ARDCs, including their staffing, funding and operating 
procedures; (E) arrangements for the decentralization of financial and 
administrative responsibilities to the research institutes, 
stations and 
centers, said arrangements being subject to 
modification by agreement between 
the Association and NARO; and (F) 
such other administrative, financial and 
organizational 
arrangements as shall be required for the Project; and  
(ii)
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule 2 and 
the procedures set out in the Project Implementation 
Plan.
(b)
NARO: (i) shall obtain the consent of the Association before making any 
material changes in the Project Implementation Plan; and (ii) shall not make any such 
changes in the said Plan that are, in the opinion of the Association, likely to affect 
materially or adversely the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project.
(c)
The farmer extension research interface linkages under the Project shall 
be implemented by the ARDCs under the overall supervision of the Deputy Director  
General of NARO for Outreach and Technological Dissemination. The ARDCs’ functions 
shall include: (i) strengthening NARO’s capacity to transfer technology effectively; 
(ii) serving as a base for launching an on-farm technology verification and adaptation 
program with the participation of smallholder clients and the extension services; 
(iii) serving as a venue for in-service training, monthly technical workshops and for 
planning; and (iv) carrying out of technology verification and adaptation trials. 
2.
NARO shall: (i) streamline and strengthen its Monitoring Evaluation and Planing 
Unit; and (ii) provide adequately for stakeholder consultation. 
3.
(a)
NARO’s Director General shall be the Project Manager of the Project.
(b)
NARO shall be responsible for the overall monitoring of the Project and 
the periodic evaluation of the Project, including: (i) the periodic preparation of 
reports on Project implementation status, (ii) the regular furnishing of the said 
reports to the National Agricultural Research Board and the Association; and (iii) the 
development of procedures to (A) monitor and annually evaluate with the participation 
of stakeholders the cost-effectiveness of each research activity carried out under the 
Project, and (B) explore cost reducing measures.
(c)
NARO shall continue to maintain its Human Resources Development Committee 
in a form and with functions satisfactory to the Association. The said Committee shall 
be responsible for the implementation of the training activities of the Project and 
its membership shall include representatives of: (i) the NARO Secretariat and research 
Page  9
institutes, (ii) Makerere University's Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, and (iii) 
MAAIF.
(d)
NARO shall no later than 90 days after the date of Credit effectiveness, 
cause to be prepared: (i) an operational plan for NARO to provide technical 
back-stopping to the extension services, and (ii) a study to clarify NARO’s 
relationships with MAAIF and local governments.
(e)
NARO shall cause to be prepared and brought into effect no later than 
October 1, 1999, a performance appraisal system satisfactory to the Association which 
shall be used by NARO in: (i) evaluating Project performance and impact; (ii) 
evaluating organizational performance to improve administration and accountability; 
and (iii) evaluating staff performance in order to improve the relevance and quality 
of research and outreach programs and determine, as necessary, staff promotion, 
rewards and sanctions. 
4.
(a)
NARO shall be responsible for the management of ARDF and to that end 
shall establish in a form and with policies, functions, procedures and membership 
satisfactory to the Association a management committee to be responsible for the day 
to day management of ARDF. The Management Committee shall be assisted by a panel of 
technical reviewers acceptable to the Association.
(b)
NARO shall not change the policies, functions, procedures or membership 
of the Management Committee without prior consultation with the Borrower and the 
Association.
(c)
NARO shall prepare and furnish to the Association no later than July 1, 
1999 a manual for ARDF (the ARDF Manual). NARO shall obtain the consent of the 
Association before making any material changes in the ARDF Manual; and (ii) shall not 
make any such changes in the ARDF Manual that are, in the opinion of the Association, 
likely to affect materially or adversely the carrying out of Part A. 3 of the Project.
(d)
Grants shall be made to scientists, universities, private sector 
agencies, international institutions and individuals meeting the criteria set out in 
the ARDF Manual subject to the following provisions of this paragraph (d): 
(i)
the Management Committee may approve Grants not exceeding in the 
case of (A) 
individual researchers, $10,000 equivalent, and (B) research 
institutions or 
universities, $25,000 equivalent, said amounts being 
subject to increase by 
the National Agricultural Research Board with 
the concurrence of the 
Association; and 
(ii)
the approval by the National Agricultural Research Board and the 
Association’s 
concurrence shall be required in the case of all 
Grants exceeding the limits 
set out in subparagraph (d) (i) above; 
(iii)
The Management Committee and the National Agricultural Research 
Board shall in 
approving Grants give first consideration to research 
proposals that (A) 
address the highest priority research areas of 
NARO, and (B) foster team 
effort, collaboration among institutions 
and links with universities and the 
private sector, including 
farmers, NGOs, agribusiness companies and commodity 
groups.
5.
Research Grant Agreements 
(a)
After a Research Subproject proposal has been approved for a Grant, NARO 
shall enter into an agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
(the Research Grant Agreement) with each Research Grant Recipient. 
(b)
Each Research Grant Agreement shall require the Research Grant Recipient 
to (i) carry out the Research Subproject proposal as approved by NARO; (ii) report 
periodically to NARO on the progress made in carrying out the Research Subproject 
against the objectives and output indicated in the relevant Research Grant Agreement; 
(iii) provide an accountability report, along with supporting documents duly audited 
by NARO'S internal audit unit; and (iv) use the proceeds of the Grant solely to 
finance costs relating to the Research Subproject. 
Page  10
(c)
The Research Grant Agreement shall also provide for the right of NARO to 
obtain all such information as the Association or NARO shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing provisions of subparagraph (b) of this paragraph.
6.
(a)
NARO shall establish, for the research institutes, stations and centers 
included in the Project, Program Planning and Review Committees (PPRCs) in a form and 
with functions and membership satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The functions of the PPRCs shall include: (i) the provision of guidance 
to the directors, and review of the research plans and budgets of the said research 
institutes, stations and centers; (ii) the making of recommendations to NARO with 
regard to the approval and funding by NARO of the said research plans and budgets; 
(iii) the periodic review of program implementation; and (iv) the formulation of zonal 
agricultural research priorities.
(c)
The research institutes, stations and centers shall be responsible for: 
(i) monitoring the progress of their respective programs under the Project in 
accordance with performance indicators satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the 
preparation and submission of reports to NARO for distribution to donors and clients. 
The said reports shall, after recommendations by the PPRCs and approval by the 
National Agricultural Research Board be used to provide guidance for the execution of 
the Project. 
7.
(a)
NARO shall no later than 90 days after the date of Credit effectiveness 
cause to be carried out a study satisfactory to the Association to evaluate possible 
mechanism for providing funding for research in a sustainable manner, including in the 
case of research on export commodities funding of such research through contract 
arrangements between NARO and the export commodity sectors and other agri-business 
enterprises.
(b)
NARO shall continue to maintain: (i) a financial management system 
covering the ARDCs and the zonal agricultural research stations included in the 
Project; and (ii) a financial management and accounting manual for the Project, said 
system and manual to be in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
8.
NARO shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
no later than November 1 each year, commencing from November 1, 1999 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period of 12 months preceding 
the period ending June 30 and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by January 15, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
9.
(a)
NARO shall carry out, jointly with the Borrower and the Association, no 
later than 36 months after the Effective Date, a mid-term review of the progress made 
in carrying out the Project. The said mid-term review shall cover, among other things: 
(i) progress made in meeting the Project's objectives; and (ii) the performance by the 
Borrower and NARO of their respective obligations under the Project. 
(b)
NARO shall carry out, no later than one month after the completion of the 
report of the mid-term review referred to in subparagraph (a) above, the 
recommendations of said review as agreed with the Association and set out in an action 
Page  11
plan satisfactory to the Association.
