Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2672-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
December 21, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
SECOND HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              -            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                       -            CFAF 210 1/
CFAF 1,000                 -            US$4.8
CFAF 50                    -            FF 1
1/ Floating Exchange Rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
CA1MDEV    -    Cameroon Development Corporation
CCCE      -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
(Central Bank for Economic Cooperation)
CDC       -    Commonwealth Development Corporation (U.K.)
CFA       -    Communaute Financiere Africaine
(African Financial Community)
ENSA      -    Ecole Nationale Superieure Agronomique
(Higher National School of Agronomy)
FONADER   -    Fonds National de Developpement Rural
(National Fund for Rural Development)
HEVECAM   -    Societe Hevea - Cameroun
IRCA      -    Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc
(Rubber Research Institute)
PAMOL     -    Societe Pamol Cameroun (Unilever Group)
SAFACAM   -    Societe Africaine Forestiere et Agricole - Cameroun
(African Forestry and Agricultural Company - Cameroon)
SATET     -    Societe Africaine de Travaux et d'Etudes Topographiques
(African Company for Topographical Works and Studies)
SEDA      -    Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement de l'Afrique
(Research Company for the Development of Africa)
SOCAPALM  -    Societe Camerounaise de Palmeraies
(Cameroonian Oil Palm Plantation Company)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
CREDIT AND LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:           HEVECAM
Amount:                US$15 million IDA Credit
US$16.5 million IBRD Loan
Terms:                 Credit:  Standard
Loarn:    20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an annual interest rate of 7.95 percent.
Relending Terms:       The US$15 million. IDA credit and US$16.5 million
IBER) loan would be relent by Government to HEVECAM
on t:erms equivalent to the IBRD loan to Government.
Project Description:  The proposed project would comprise a second five-year
phase in the development of an industrial rubber estate
within HEVECAM's 40,000 hectare Niete concession.  Its
maini objectives would be to: expand by 9,300 ha the
area planted with rubber, maintain this new planted
area as well as the 4,200 ha planted under the first
project (which are still in the pre-production
phase), bring 1,500 ha planted under the first
project into production, construct a rubber factory
and provide technical assistance to HEVECAM.
It would consist of thirteen components:
(i)  fell and prepare for planting a further 9,800 ha of
forest;
(ii) plant a further 9,300 ha with selected rubber
clones;
(iii) maintain during the pre-production phase this
planted area together with 4,200 ha planted from
the first project;
(iv) bring into production the first 1,500 ha planted
under the first project;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discklsed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(v) establish the infrastructure necessary for
the expansion of the estate;
(vi) construct a factory capable of processing
30 tons/day of rubber;
(vii) establish nurseries to provide material for the
1,500 ha of rubber to be planted under a future
third phase of the project;
(viii)  complete the survey of the Niete concession and
prepare studies for the rubber company's further
development;
(ix) provide technical assistance to manage HEVECAM
and to train Cameroonian staff;
(x) continue field trials on rubber varieties,
disease control and tapping techniques;
(xi) clear land for food crop production by estate
workers;
(xii) clear about 250 ha of land outside the concession
area and conduct trials for the introduction of
rubber as a smallholder crop; and
(xiii)  conduct a survey to determine the quantity of timber
available for salvage logging in the forest areas to be
cleared for the project.
Benefits and Risks:
The project would eventually supply block rubbers for export and, thereby,
lead to a reduction in the country's heavy dependence upon cocoa and coffee
for agricultural export earnings and help to fulfill the Government's plans
for the economic development of the sparsely populated Kribi region. While
HEVECAM is taking measures to ensure the availability of sufficient labor for
full project implementation, there may be some difficulty in obtaining the
skilled tappers beyond the project period needed to realize full production
potential of high yielding rubber clones. A long-term plan for development of
perennial crops in Cameroon's coastal area, to be completed in 1981, is
expected to recommend a course of action that will balance the need for
labor with its availability. The principal agricultural risk would be "Fomes"
disease, which attacks the roots of rubber trees. However, the precautions
that have been incorporated in the project design are considered adequate to
ensure a satisfactory stand of trees at maturity.



- iii -
Estimated Costs
Foreign
US$ million            as %
Foreign   Local   Total   of Total
Plantation Development
and Operating Costs                   16.5      31.5    48.0         34
Civil Works, Utilities                    1.8       7.8     9.6        19
Vehicles, Equipment                       3.7      0.9      4.6        80
Factory Investment                        1.9      1.1      3.0        62
Smallholders Program and Studies          0.4      1.0      1.4        29
Total base cost                    24.3      42.3    66.6         36
-  Physical contingencies           1.2       2.1      3.3       36
-  Price contingencies              9.0      16.1    25.1         36
-  Total cost (including taxes)  34.5        60.5    95.0         36
-  Taxes                              -       6.2      6.2
-  Total cost (net of taxes)       34.5      54.3    88.8        39
Financing Plan:                              US$ million
Foreign      Local         Total
IBRD                            6.9           9.6         16.5
IDA                             6.5           8.5         15.0
CCCE                           10.1           8.9         19.0
CDC                            11.0          14.7         25.7
Government                       -           18.8         18.8
Total                        34.5          60.5         95.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual                            5.8    6.1    7.9    8.2    3.5
Cumulative                        5.8   11.9   19.8   28.0   31.5
Economic Rate of Return: 15 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2661-CM dated December 10, 1979.
Maip:                     'IBRD 14373 and IBRD 14374






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
SECOND HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of US$15 million and on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$16.5 million to the United Republic of Cameroon to
help finance the Second HiEVECAM Rubber Project. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms and thLe IBRD loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum. The Common-
wealth Development Corporation (CDC) has agreed to finance the project with a
loan to Government of L 12 million (US$25.7 million) with a term of 20
years, including seven years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) has also agreed to
finance the project with a loan to Government of FF 80 million (US$19 mil-
lion). Sixty million French Francs (US$14.2 million) would carry a term of 20
years, including eight years of grace with interest at 5.5 percent per annum.
The remaining FF 20 mill;ion (US$4.8 million) would have a term of 15 years,
including a five years oi grace, at 10.25 percent interest per annum.
The Cameroonian Government would contribute CFAF 3.9 billion (US$18.8 million)
to project costs and CFAF 1 billion (US$4.8 million) to cover HEVECAM's
working capital requirements during the project period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic Memorandum"
(No. 1798-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 5, 1978.
Its principal findings and conclusions, updated by missions that visited
Cameroon in April and June 1979, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diversified countries with a wide
range of ecological conditions, ethnic groups and cultures. Cameroon was a
federation until the United Republic, which unified the anglophone western and
francophone eastern parts of the country, was established in 1972. The
Government has concentrated on the establishment and maintenance of national
unity between the eastern and relatively small western parts of the country
and between the sahelian zone in the north with Muslim traditions and the
southern tropical regions.



- 2 -
4.        Cameroon has a population of 7.9 million (1978) and covers an
area of 475,000 km2. The main opportunities for development lie in the
expansion of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing
of agricultural and forestry products for export. Soils and climatic condi-
tions permit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the southeast contains
large untapped timber resources. The north holds promising potential for
livestock development. Cameroon became an oil producer and exported nearly
250,000 tons of crude petroleum in 1978. Beginning in 1979, crude oil exports
reached a rate of about 270,000 tons every two months or 1.6 million tons per
year. Trade, transportation and transit services are other important economic
activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast areas of
low population density; furthermore, the country's transport facilities also
serve landlocked Chad. As a result, a large port and adequate inland trans-
portation infrastructure are essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and
industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
5.        GDP growth was nearly 4.5 percent per year during both the Second
Five Year Plan (1966-71) and the Third Plan (1971-76), and accelerated to 7.9
percent during 1977-78, the first two years of the Fourth Plan. Population
growth is estimated at about 1.8 percent per year in the 1960s, about 1.9
percent until the mid-1970s and about 2.3 percent from 1975 to 1980. Per
capita GNP reached about US$460 in 1978. 1/
6.        Most agricultural crops, livestock, fishing and forestry experienced
high growth rates during 1966-71 thanks to favorable supply and demand condi-
tions including high producer prices, high domestic income growth and rapid
economic expansion abroad. Lower agricultural growth during 1971-76 was due
in part to the decrease in output of two major commercial crops, cocoa and
arabica coffee. Important factors in this decline were the decline in rela-
tive competitiveness of producer prices with food cash crop prices and the
termination of the foreign supported fertilizer subsidy program for arabica
coffee. The decline in cocoa and arabica coffee output was not fully offset
by growth in other important commercial crops including cotton, rubber, and
oil palm. Growth in forestry production dropped during 1971-76 because of
reduced Western European demand and some transportation bottlenecks.
7.        Manufacturing and mining grew at about 10 percent per year during
1966-71 mainly on account of the rapid development of import substitution
industries, particularly manufactured consumer goods. The lower manufacturing
growth experienced during 1971-76 was due to the slowdown in new import
substitution activities and to slower income growth because of the deteriorat-
ing terms of trade.
1/   This reflecrs the revisions incorporated in the new series of national
income statistics compiled by the Government with the assistance of the
UN Economic Commission for Africa.



- 3 -
8.        Since 1976, Cameroon experienced rapid growth in most major sectors.
Agricultural growth was helped by recovery in cocoa production as farmers
responded to higher producer prices and in forestry production. The construc-
tion industry grew by 15 lpercent per year during 1977-78 as large investments
were undertaken for the implementation of the plan. The rapid increase in
income and thea high rate of economic activities led to substantial growth in
most other sectors particularly food crops, trade, transport and other
services.
Investment and Savings
9.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), the investment rate, in-
cluding increase in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic
savings and gross national savings were respectively 13.4 and 12.6 percent
of GDP. Foreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during
this period. During the Third Plan period, despite slow income growth,
the investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP. Gross domestic savings
and gross national savings rose to 16.4 percent and 13.9 percent of GDP, but
debt service increased by 60 percent from a small base. External resources
therefore continued to finance about one-third of total investment during this
period. The higher savings rate in a period of slow output growth was made
possible by a drastic reduction in the real growth of consumption, particu-
larly private consumption, to less than 2 percent per annum.  One of the
prices paid for the substantial improvement in savings during the Third Plan
was, however, a limitation on farmers' earnings in tree crops, providing
insufficient incentives for farmers to obtain more output from the existing
trees and to make new plantings to maintain and expand production capacity --
a situation that has serious implications for the longer term future of these
crops. The maintenance of a high investment rate during this period was
offset by a decline in the efficiency of investment. Some reduction in
capital productivity was attributable to projects, such as in oil exploration
and transport infrastructure, which would lead to production increases only a
number of years later, and social infrastructure investments, which would
improve welfare but have a limited impact on output. During 1977/78, the
investment rate reached an average of 22.8 percent of GDP. Due largely to the
record cocoa and coffee export prices, gross domestic savings and gross
national savings increased further to 19.9 and 19 percent respectively of GDP.
As a result, external resources financed only about one-fourth of total
investment during these lwo years.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
10.       Budgetary revenue amounted to about 17 percent of GDP during each
of the past two plan periods, respectively, while public savings after debt
service as a percentage of total public investment declined from about 39
percent in 1966-71 to about 36 percent in 1971-76. During 1977/78, the share
of budgetary revenue in GDP increased to an average of 19.4 percent. The
balance of payments did not become a problem until 1974-76. Imports increased
rapidly in 1975 and 1976 as a result of world-wide inflation and heavy public
development expenditure, especially in capital goods, and the decline in



-4-
agricultural exports, particularly exports of cocoa and timber, resulted in
sizeable current account deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits
was financed by net capital inflows but a substantial drawdown of inter-
national reserves also took place in 1975. Therefore, net official inter-
national reserves decreased from more than two months of imports in 1974 to
less than one month in 1975. In 1977-79, exports rose substantially (at an
average annual rate of 21 percent) but imports also increased ( annual average
rate of 23 percent) because of economic recovery and expanded investment.
Gross official international reserves were rebuilt in 1976-79, in part by the
use of IMF credit (Oil Facility and Compensatory Financing in 1976), but net
official international reserves continued to be less than one month of imports
at mid-1979. This was a low level by international standards but still
acceptable considering Cameroon's membership in the Central African Monetary
Union.
Development Issues and Prospects
11.       Cameroon's main medium- and long-term potential lies in the develop-
ment of a diversified agricultural sector relying upon export crop production
to generate foreign exchange and domestic food crop production to meet the
needs of a growing urban population. Realizing this potential depends upon an
appropriate mix of public policy measures aimed at stimulating private
initiative. Factors that further complicate the agricultural development
effort in Cameroon are the dispersion of its main economic and population
centers, its regional and institutional diversity, the competition between
export and cah food crops for the dwindling agricultural labor in some parts
of the country, the dependence of a substantial part of public revenue and
savings on cocoa and coffee, and the limited availability of skilled agricul-
tural agents and administrators. Through its technical assistance and educa-
tion projects and through its normal project work, the Bank is supporting
Cameroon's effort in manpower training and development in the agricultural
services, as well as in other sectors. In industry the Government has moved
to channel more financial resources for investment directly through the public
sector, in addition to the indirect support provided by tax incentives and
other measures, which have been in existence for many years. The Government
has actively participated in a Bank study of the manufacturing sector whose
results will help to identify bottlenecks and opportunities to develop exist-
ing as well as new industrial activities.
12.       The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth during 1979-81
is quite favorable. It is based on the maintenance of cocoa output at about
110,000 tons; recovery of robusta coffee; continuing expansion for arabica
coffee; increased production of most other commercial and food crops, as well
as of livestock; and expansion of commercial forestry production. Growth of
industrial production is expected to derive from existing and expanded manu-
facturing facilities (particularly for food, beverages and construction
materials), some new industrial projects, as well as from crude oil and new
mining ventures. Given the stepped-up production and investment activities, a
high growth rate is expected also for construction and services.



-5 -
13.       Long-term growth could be somewhat constrained by a worsening of the
terms of trade, which will make it difficult to sustain the high investment
rate planned for the 1976-81 period, and by the need for prudent debt manage-
ment to ensure the country's long-term borrowing capacity. Growth prospects
will be greatly influenced by the extent to which Cameroon succeeds in the
difficult task of maintaining and expanding the country's main traditional
export crops, and the large-scale development of still unexploited forestry
resources. Results of studies on the forestry potential, forestry sector
development policy, investment plans and transport requirements, many of which
are part of Bank projects, will support the latter development. In addition,
there are still uncertain indications for the exploitation of iron ore, but
with heavy investment requirements and long lead times to establish commercially
viable export operations, production could probably not begin until the end of
the 1980s.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-81)
14.       Cameroon is implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Development
Plan. Private investment is encouraged, under Government guidelines, to
expand production capacity in agriculture, forestry, mining and manufac-
turing. A part of financing of private investment activities, however, will
be publicly guaranteed borrowing. Planned investment of some US$3.1 billion
(in 1974/75 prices) is about 80 percent higher in real terms than the esti-
mated level achieved during the last plan period and almost triple previous
Plan expenditures in nominal terms. Public investment is expected to account
for 73 percent of total investment. However, public investment should not
be maintained at planned levels for several reasons, including: (a) the
heavy dependence of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee export
prices, which are expected to decline substantially in the last three years of
the Fourth plan (1979-81) from their record levels in the past; (b) the need
for adequate producer prices to give farmers sufficient incentives for produc-
tion and new plantings; (c) the rise in import prices, which is expected to
continue; and (d) the requirement to keep supplementary borrowing on commercial
terms at prudent levels to maintain Cameroon's long-term capacity to borrow.
An investment rate during the Fourth Plan period of about 22 percent of GDP,
some 10-20 percent below planned levels, appears manageable, implying a total
investment in current prizes of US$3.4-3.7 billion or about US$690-740 million
a year.
Financial Prospects and Creditworthiness
15.       In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (July 1976 - June
1978), with the favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service
financed more than half of total public investment. However, in the last
three years (July 1978 - June 1981), public savings after debt service are
not expected to finance more than 30 percent of total public investment, a
share of domestic public financing that is unlikely to be exceeded in the
longer run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly on external financ-
ing for the bulk of its public investment, and foreign official lenders should



- 6 -
finance a high proportion of total project costs of externally financed proj-
ects, including local costs in appropriate cases. An increasing reliance on
foreign borrowing during a period of deteriorating terms of trade will require
careful external debt management. Borrowing on commercial terms increased
significantly in the last two years as a result of the implementation of a
number of large investment projects at higher costs than initially planned.
Debt service will thus increase faster than expected at the beginning of the
Plan period, but the debt situation will remain within acceptable limits
provided future borrowing at commercial terms is kept within prudent limits.
Cameroon has yet to establish a timely and comprehensive system for controlling
the foreign borrowing of its public enterprises. However, our latest mission
has enabled us to bring our estimates up to date. Cameroon is judged to be
creditworthy for Bank financing over the medium-term on the basis of its
ability to maintain and improve productivity in the utilization of the coun-
try's resources and its potential in the long term to further diversify the
economy by developing still unexploited resources. In order to keep debt
service within reasonable limits, foreign public donors should provide at
least 50 percent of public capital assistance on concessionary terms. On this
basis, the foreign debt service ratio, 7.6 percent of export earnings in 1978,
should not exceed 17 percent by the mid-1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
16.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$496
million and cover 32 projects: fourteen in agriculture, elev%n in trans-
portation, three in education, two in public utilities, one~ sall- and medium-
scale enterprises project, and one technical assistance project. Transport
represents the largest share (54 percent) of past commitments, followed by
agriculture (35 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of October 31, 1979, and includes notes on ongoing
projects. Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in
the execution of projects, the Government has consistently shown willingness
to collaborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
17.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export-
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's
infrastructure; stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase
employment in urban areas; and enhance the efficiency of Cameroon's institu-
tions.
18.       The Government rightly attaches priority to the balanced regional
development of agricultural resources, and to the improvement of conditions
in the rural sector parallel with promotion of plantation agriculture, in-
cluding smallholder schemes. Bank Group assistance to Cameroon in agriculture
is designed to support these policy objectives. The Bank helped the Govern-
ment create an effective and well-managed plantation sector by financing oil



-7-
palm and rubber plantations in the south and west. The first rubber project
approved in 1975 is completed and the second project proposed in this report
would help further the development of the southwest coastal region. The
second SOCAPALM and CAMDEV projects are follow-up operations to successful oil
palm and rubber projects in the western coastal regions. At the same time the
Bank has assi6ted, with two SEMRY projects, in promoting smallholder rice
irrigation in the north. The ongoing cocoa project is aimed at modernizing
smallholder cocoa growing and raising rural productivity in areas south and
west of Yaounde. Rural development projects in populated but poor regions are
being established with the assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural
Development Project is financing studies and trial activities to establish
whether a full-scale rural development program can be launched. The ZAPI-East
Integrated Rural Development Project supports ZAPI's ongoing integrated rural
development activities as well as an expansion of ZAPI's activities in eastern
Cameroon. The Western Highlands Rural Development Project provides a package
of inputs, techniques and iinfrastructure aimed at improving productivity for
the agricultural economy of the western part of the country. The Rural
Development Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish the
machinery for processing and implementing small-scale rural development
schemes - initially in the north. The objective of a rural development
project that is proposed for the northern region will be to establish planning
and coordination capabilitiLes at the provincial level, as well as to finance
crop diversification, reforestation, small-scale irrigation and rural water
supply. The second phase of a livestock development program which began in
1974 is now being prepared and will comprise tsetse eradication, training and
a credit scheme for traditional producers.
19.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of pub]Lic investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with other development institutions, has substantially aided develop-
ment of adequate transport facilities. The First, Second and Third Highway
Projects were designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system.
A Feeder Roads Project approved in 1977 will establish institutions for feeder
road administration and maintenance in addition to providing the necessary
resources for a feeder roadl program to support high priority agricultural/
rural development projects..  The Fourth Highway Project which became effective
in November 1979, will concentrate on road maintenance and rehabilitation and
includes funds for feasibil]ity studies for the construction of a two-lane
heavy duty road between Yaounde and Douala. The Fourth Railway Project, which
was signed in August 1979 will help finance the new Douala marshalling yard,
maintenance facilities at Yaounde, railway equipment, and technical assistance
for improvements in operatiLons, management and training. Given projected
traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments in the transport
sector, substantial capital outlays are still necessary - particularly for the
expansion of the Port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and
IDA credit, and for relatecl facilities such as those being financed by the
Fourth Railway Project. Future road investments could possibly include
financing of strategic international access routes, but should place greater
emphasis on road maintenance and on developing the network of forestry, feeder
and farm access roads.



20.       In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project,
approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship and
a second project is under preparation. A Third Education Project, approved
in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education and training.
The Second Water Supply Project, signed in December 1979, will provide water
to 13 secondary centers, reinforce and expand water supply systems in Douala
and Yaounde, and includes financing for sewerage and drainage master plan
studies for these two cities. At the same time an urban project is being
prepared which is designed to upgrade several low-income settlements and
develop sites and services in Douala and Yaounde.
21.       All these projects include, as needed, training, technical assis-
tance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in June
1977 is helping to support Government services in several key Ministries
involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing and a
second project is in preparation. The Bank's lending strategy will continue
to emphasize strengthening the institutional framework, particularly sector
planning, and project preparation and implementation in transportation and
rural and urban development.
22.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements of
official development assistance to Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million
a year.  While at the beginning of this period 65 percent of aid funds were
grants, the proportion of loans slowly increased. A major part of external
assistance was provided by France and was concentrated in infrastructure and
the productive sectors. The European Development Fund and European Investment
Bank directed their lending mainly to agriculture and infrastructure. Bank
and IDA disbursements were small during this period. Since 1972 overall
disbursements of foreign aid increased to about US$90 million per year with
one-fifth as grants. The Bank and IDA's share of these inflows amounted to
about 23 percent. Their lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with
other donors; in 14 of our 32 projects, joint or parallel co-financing
arrangements have been made and co-financing for several future projects is
being actively sought.
23.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1978,
amounted to US$1,153.4 million and is projected to reach US$3.1 billion in
1983. Public debt service as a proportion of export earnings amounted to
7.6 percent in 1978 and is projected to reach 16.5 percent in 1985. At
that time, annual foreign aid disbursements may amount to over US$500 million.
At end-1978, IBRD loans accounted for 8.9 percent of Cameroon's public debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 13 percent of its public debt service. IDA
credits accounted for 9.3 percent of public debt outstanding and 5.8 percent
of public debt service. The Bank and IDA are expected to account for about
20 percent of total public debt and 11 percent of public debt service in 1985.
24.       In October 1974, Cameroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$380,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,



-9-
was approved in May 1975. In September 1976, the IFC Board approved an
equity investment of about US$800,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate
(SAFACAM), which is currently the second largest rubber producer in Cameroon,
and which has provided technical assistance to HEVECAM. The investment will
assist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an existing estate that
will produce rubber for export and palm oil for the domestic market. The
operation will also facilitate participation of domestic shareholders in the
estate. In November 1977, the Board approved a third operation, an investment
of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a promotional company for maize
development. No commitment has yet been made on this investment since the
original technical partner has been replaced and major changes have been
made in the arrangements expected earlier. The Board approved a second
equity investment of US$410,000 in SAFACAM in September 1978. The increased
capitalization is required to finance the construction of a palm oil pressing
mill. Cameroonian participation again increased with this operation. The
Societe Nationale d'Investissement, a national development bank, is doubling
its share in SAFACAM. In April 1979, the Board approved an investment of
US$7.92 million consisting of US$7 million in loan and US$0.92 million
equivalent in equity in a Cameroonian aluminum producing company, ALUCAM, to
help expand the company's production capacity.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
25.       Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Cameroon and
agricultural expansion is likely to remain the cornerstone of the country's
economic development strategy. The rural sector contributes 40 percent of the
GNP, 70 percent of the country's export earnings and employs about three
quarters of the total labor force. Rural per capita incomes vary widely
between regions, the main distinction being between the forested areas in the
south, US$90-160, and the northern savannah areas, US$66-90, where income is
less than a third of the national average.
26.       Cameroon's diversity of soil and climatic conditions are reflected
in the variety and geographic distribution of its principal agricultural
products. In the north, millet, sorghum, rice, maize, groundnuts and cotton
are produced and there is potential for wheat. In the center and eastern
provinces, marked by low population density, root crops, groundnuts, coffee,
tobacco and some cereals are grown and livestock production is also an impor-
tant feature. In the center south, comprising the principal urban concentra-
tions, 80 percent of the country's cocoa is produced while plantain and taro
are major food crops. In the coastal provinces, robusta coffee, cocoa and
bananas are produced by individual farmers, while oil palm, and rubber
are produced on large scale estates. In the heavily populated western
provinces maize and tuber crops are the main food staples supplemented by
groundnuts, beans and vegetables.



- 10 -
27.        Smallholder farming is the predominant source of agricultural
output. Nearly a million farm families, cultivating an average of about 2 ha,
contribute 90 percent of total production. Of the export crops, coffee and
cocoa come principally from peasant producers. Three other important crops,
namely cotton, tobacco and rice are also supplied largely by small farmers.
28.       Attention in the past, particularly in the field of research,
technical support and extension, has been focussed on export crops such as
cocoa, coffee, cotton and oil palm. By contrast, food crop production has
suffered from weak rural institutions, limited access to credit and seasonal
inputs and lack of training and agricultural research dissemination to the
small farmer.
29.       Recent agricultural production trends have varied.  Food crop and
cereal production have remained stable over the past five years following
poor results during the drought of the early 1970s. Root crop production has
grown at an appreciable rate over the past decade. Cash crop production has
followed an uneven trend: expanding between 1967 and 1972; regressing between
1972 and 1976; and, more recently, increasing as a result of improved producer
prices, stronger Government support and intervention policies, and the matur-
ing of investments from earlier years. Potential for increased production is
good as Cameroon possesses considerable unexploited land resources: it
is estimated that little more than 4 percent of potentially cultivable land is
currently under production. Only in the western provinces is there a density
of population which puts pressure on available cultivable land. Government is
currently pursuing measures to encourage migration out of this area by opening
up new productive lands such as those envisaged as part of the present
project.
30.       Allocations totalling US$740 million for agricultural and rural
sector activities in the Fourth Development Plan are evidence of Government's
commitment to these sectors and represent a 4 percent increase in the share
allocated to them in the investment budget over provisions made in the Third
Plan. In pursuing overall objectives of improving income distribution and
regional disparities, modernizing social facilities and living conditions and
developing local technology, Government's   agricultural policy is concerned
with improving: (i) coverage of extension services; (ii) availability of
agricultural credit; (iii) farmer organization through cooperatives; and, (iv)
research dissemination to smallholders for major crops. In pursuing attempts
to stem the growing exodus of young people from rural areas, funds have been
earmarked to help establish young farmers in cash and food crop production.
31.       The Bank's activities in Cameroon include a number of integrated
rural development projects although almost 60 percent of sector lending to
date has been to industrial crop projects for rubber and oil palm such as
CAMDEV, SOCAPALM and HEVECAM and for rice development in the two SEMRY pro-
jects in the north. These projects are assisting Cameroon to diversify its
production of export crops. Rubber production now amounts to about 18,000
tons a year and palm oil about 50,000 tons (primarily for domestic consumption)
as against coffee and cocoa at 90,000 tons and 100,000 tons respectively.



- 11 -
Government is also considering diversifying into coconut production for which
variety trials are underway and seed gardens are being established in a pilot
component of the CAMDEV II project (Loan 1508-CM).
32.       In line with Government's wishes to involve smallholders in indus-
trial crop projects, CAMDEV II and SOCAPALM II (Loan 1392-CM) include plans
for 3,000 ha of smallholder oil palm and 1,000 ha of smallholder rubber, and
the presently proposed HEVECAM II project incorporates trials of 250 ha of
rubber to be planted by some 100 smallholders.  Smallholder plantings would
be developed alongside the estates so that they could benefit from the tech-
nical expertise of the nucleus organization and from the estate processing
facilities. This is essential to achieve higher yields and higher quality.
The overall size of such smallholder components is however constrained for at
least the next few years by the low population density in areas adjoining the
estates currently being developed and the lack of experience in rubber produc-
tion of these populations.
33.       The total area under rubber in Cameroon at the present time is
about 25,000 ha, two thirds of which are in tapping. Production averages
18,000 tons a year. The major contribution comes from CAMDEV with about
11,000 ha in tapping and an annual production of 12,000 tons. SAFACAM
with 4,000 ha in tapping, produces about 4,000 tons and PAMOL, with 1,600
ha, about 2,000 tons. Long-term plans for further expansion of the area
under rubber will depend on the outcome of two regional master plan studies
for which financing has been provided under ongoing Bank projects. In terms
of land availability, it is probable that the area under rubber could be
increased to 100,000 ha without jeopardizing other important agricultural
developments, in particular the expansion of production of staple food crops.
Institutions
34.       HEVECAM (Hevea-Cameroon), a wholly state-owned development company,
was established by Government decrees in 1975, and was charged with the
development of a 15,000 ha rubber estate within a 40,000 ha concession at
Niete in Ocean Department. The concession is about 25 km southeast of Kribi
and 250 km from the main port of Douala. Initial financing of CFAF 300 million
(US$1.4 million) was contributed jointly by Government, the National Office
for Marketing of Primary Commodities and the National Investment Company. An
IDA credit (574-CM) of US$16 million and a loan by the CCCE of FF 20 million
were granted in 1975. WitbL this external financing, the Government initiated
the first phase of the Niete development, with a target of planting 5,800 ha
of plantation rubber.
35.       Despite a slow start, due to problems associated with mobilizing a
large project in a remote and undeveloped region, HEVECAM has almost fully
achieved the physical targets set for 1976-79. However, the costs of this
work has substantially exceeded that foreseen during appraisal, by an esti-
mated US$7.6 milLion. Reasons for this include changes in the method of land
preparation to assist burning and reduce the risk of root disease, a revision
of planting techniques due to losses from rodent damage and the adoption of
higher housing standards. Thus, only 4,200 ha instead of the expected 5,800



- 12 -
ha have been planted during the first project; and it is now proposed to
finance the remaining fifth year's planted area of 1,600 ha out of the second
project.
36.       Also financed under the first project were associated activities
which included technical assistance to HEVECAM and the preparation of a Master
Plan for the economic development of the Kribi region. In addition to the
management support it receives under a contract with the Societe Africaine
Forestiare et Agricole du Cameroun (SAFACAM), HEVECAM also benefits from the
advice of IRCA (Rubber Research Institute) with headquarters in Paris and the
collaboration of IRAF (The National Agricultural and Forestry Research Institute).
The company operates under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture. The
President of the Board of Directors is nominated by the President of the
Republic and membership of the Board includes representatives of the Ministries
of Agriculture, Economy and Planning, and Finance. The Managing Director, at
present an expatriate with long experience in the management of rubber planta-
tions, is responsible to the Board for the day to day conduct of the company's
affairs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project would comprise a five-year second phase in the develop-
ment of an industrial rubber estate within the 40,000 ha Niete concession in
south east Cameroon. It would contribute to finance the planting by HEVECAM
of 9,300 ha of rubber, increasing the size of the planted estate from 4,200 ha
to 13,500 ha. The project preparation report was completed in November 1978
and the project was appraised jointly by the Bank, CDC and CCCE in March/April
1979. Negotiations were held in Washington on November 12-16, 1979. The
Cameroonian delegation was led by H.E. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador to the United
States, and included the Director General of HEVECAM. CCCE and CDC also
participated in the negotiations.
Project Description
38.       The principal objectives would be to:
(i) clear and prepare for planting a further 9,800 ha
of forest which, added to the 5,200 ha cleared under
the first project, would complete the clearing for
the total 15,000 ha development envisaged by Govern-
ment;
(ii) plant a further 9,300 ha with selected rubber clones,
which would extend the estate's total planted area to
13,500 ha. The remaining 1,500 ha cleared under this
project would be planted during a future third phase;



- 13 -
(iii)  maintain during the pre-production period the 4,200
ha planted iunder the first project together with
the 9,300 ha that would be planted under the proposed
project;
(iv)  bring into tapping about 1,500 ha of the first trees
planted under the first project;
(v)  establish the infrastructure necessary for the expansion
of the estate, including the construction of housing for
workers, the installation of water and electricity services
and the provision of a hospital, schools, markets, stores,
recreational buildings and sports facilities;
(vi)  construct the first stage of the rubber factory
and install processing capacity to handle 30 tons
per day of rubber;
(vii) establish nurseries to provide material for the 1,500
ha that would be planted under a future third phase;
(viii)  complete the survey of the Niete concession and
preparatory topographical and soil studies on a new
site to provide for the company s further development;
(ix)  provide technical assistance to HEVECAM under the
existing management contract with SAFACAM, which in-
cludes provision for the training of Cameroonian staff
at all levels of responsibility;
(x) continue the field trials on rubber varieties, disease
control and tapping techniques;
(xi)  clear forest and make land available for food crop
husbandry by the estate workers and their families
and provide them with improved seed and other planting
material for the major subsistence crops;
(xii) clear about 250 ha of land outside the concession
area, conducting trials and making other pre-
parations, such as creating credit facilities for
participating growers, for the introduction of rubber
as a smallholder crop in association with the industrial
plantation; and
(xiii)  conduct a survey to determine the quantity of
timber available for salvage logging in the forest
areas to be cleared for the project.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
39.       The majority of land clearing would be done on force acccount
by HEVECAM using the fleet of heavy tractors purchased under the first pro-
ject. With only minor additions, this equipment should suffice for the
completion of a 15,000 ha estate. HEVECAM would subcontract operations such
as tree felling with chain saws for which local contractors are available.
40.       The following table summarizes the operational calendar for the
major field operations envisaged:
Timetable (ha)
Total
Projects
Project I                  Project II                   I and II
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984  Total
Land Clearing    5,200    2,210  2,200  2,190  1,700  1,500  9,800    15,000
Planting          4,200       998  2,210  2,200  2,192  1,700  9,300    13,500
Opening for
Tapping             -       -       -       131    243  1,093  1,467       1,467
41.       The project will continue to rely on varieties of planting material
which have performed well under the first project and are internationally
recognized as suitable for large-scale industrial plantings. A number of
other varieties such as recently developed Malaysian clones could also be
included but on a smaller scale.  Experience has shown that the best re-
sults are to be expected from container-grown plants raised in irrigated
nurseries.  As much as possible of the rubber planted under the project
would be raised in this way. The balance would be planted as budded stumps or
would come from seedlings planted directly in the field and bud-grafted about
a year later.
42.       High density planting (555 trees per hectare) would maximize
production during the early years of harvesting while the use of yield
stimulants (Ethrel) would both enhance yield and keep down labor costs.
production is expected to start in year six after planting, with a yield
of 200 kg of dry rubber per hectare, rising to 2,300 kg at full maturity,
in about year fifteen. Over an expected tapping life of thirty-two years,
this would give an average production of just under 2,000 kg per hectare
per year.
43.       HEVECAM at present employs about 1,600 workers.  The proposed
project would provide a further 1,400 jobs bringing to 3,000 the total
number of employees. The project would finance the construction of housing
and the provision of medical and social services for these additional employees.
This would include a hospital, stores, clubs, and facilities for indoor
recreation and outdoor sports and schools. Assurances were obtained from
Government that schools built at Niete would be operated in accordance with
the provisions governing its public educational system (Section 4.04 of the



- 15 -
draft Credit Agreement). A typical village would house 400 workers on a 15 ha
site and, in addition, HEVECAM would clear 60 ha of forest and allocate this
land to workers wishing to cultivate their own food crops. HEVECAM would also
operate a food crop unit that would be responsible for the multiplication and
distribution of improved planting material. To improve communications,
assurances were obtained that Government will upgrade by December 1980 and
maintain thereafter an all-weather road between Niete, Kribi and Douala
(Section 4.05 of the draft Credit Agreement).
44.       Government is anxious to develop smallholding rubber in association
with the industrial estate and financing has been included to launch a small-
holder program. This is seen as essentially experimental in nature and would
involve only about 250 ha with perhaps 100 participants during the project
period. It would be unreaListic to attempt a more ambitious program under the
proposed project. Rubber is an unfamiliar crop, population density in the
area surrounding the concession is low, and local farmers already have
time and labor constraints in the practice of their traditional husbandry.
Financial assistance and suipervision of the smallholder program would be
managed by HEVECAM under a Credit Administration Agreement with FONADER. The
arrangement would be similar to those being implemented under the Second
SOCOPALM (Loans 1391-T and 1392-CM) and the Second CAMDEV (Loan 1508-CM)
projects.
Project Costs
45.       Total project costs during the five-year investment period are
estimated at CFAF 20 billion (US$95 million) inclusive of all identifiable
taxes. Taxes account for ICFAF 1.3 billion (US$6.2 million) or 7 percent of
total project costs. The net of tax cost of the project would thus be CFAF
18.7 million (US$88.8 million). The foreign exchange component of the second
project would be only 39 percent or CFAF 7.3 billion (US$34.5 million). This
is due to the substantial investments already financed under the first project
in the form of equipment, vehicles and materials. Physical contingencies have
been estimated at 10 percent on civil works and buildings and 5 percent on all
other costs except salaries. Price contingencies have been calculated through-
out at 10 percent compounded annually on January 1979 base costs, plus physical
contingencies. This is consistent with the first HEVECAM project and with
other projects presented recently for Cameroon.
Project Financing
46.       The Bank Group would provide an IBRD loan of US$16.5 million and
an IDA credit of US$15 million to Government, making a total participation of
US$31.5 million. A provision for retroactive financing would be made for a
total not to exceed US$400,000, corresponding to expenditures to be incurred
after January 1, 1980.  The CDC would provide a loan of b12 million (US$25.7
million) and the CCCE a loan of FF 80 million (US$19 million). The terms of
the CDC loan to Government would be 20 years with a seven year grace period
and 7.5 percent annual interest. There would be a commitment fee of 0.75



- 16 -
percent. The terms on FF 60 million of the CCCE loan to Government would be
20 years with an eight year grace period and annual interest of 5.5 percent;
the remaining FF 20 million would be for 15 years, including five years of
grace, at 10.25 percent interest. The Government would finance the balance of
CFAF 3.9 billion (US$18.8 million). Government would also provide CFAF 1
billion (US$4.8 million) to cover working capital requirements of HEVECAM
during the project period. Assurances were obtained that HEVECAM's liquid
assets would be maintained at a level sufficient to cover its expenditures for
a four-month period (Section 4.01 of the draft Credit Agreement). To ensure a
satisfactory debt/equity ratio during the project period, it was agreed
that all Government financing would be contributed to HEVECAM as equity; FF 20
million (US$4.8 million) of the CCCE loan to Government would also be passed
on as equity and FF 15.8 million (US$3.7 million) as a grant. The remaining
financing would be relent to HEVECAM for a period of 20 years, including ten
years of grace for both interest and capital, a proposal justified by the
long gestation period of the project. The relending interest rate charged by
Government to HEVECAM at the end of the grace period would be equivalent to
about 12.6 percent. All these conditions would be provided for in a subsid-
iary financing agreement to be entered into between Government and HEVECAM on
terms approved by the Association and the Bank (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Credit Agreement). Assurances were obtained from Government that additional
financing after the project period would be provided to bring the 15,000 ha
rubber estate into full production (Section 4.02 of the draft Credit Agree-
ment).
Procurement
47.       Contracts for goods of US$100,000 or more would be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Goods so purchased would total about US$7 million of which the Bank and IDA
would finance US$2.3 million and would cover heavy vehicles, equipment,
fertilizers and chemicals and factory equipment. CCCE would finance, under
its procurement rules, light vehicles and wheeled tractors with a value
of FF 4.4 million (US$1 million). Contracts of between US$50,000 and
US$100,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Purchases below US$50,000 would be made on the basis
of quotations from not fewer than three suppliers and limited in total to an
equivalent of US$4 million for contracts so procured. A 15 percent margin of
preference may be granted in favor of goods manufactured in Cameroon.
48.       Civil works totalling US$12.3 million (Bank/IDA US$4.1 million) for
the estate infrastructure would be carried out by HEVECAM on force account
with a limited amount of sub-contracting since they are unlikely to attract
foreign bidders and there are no suitable local contractors available in the
area. Deforestation and land clearing costing US$35.1 million (Bank/IDA
US$16.1 million) would also be carried out by HEVECAM on force account.
The continued use of force account for deforestation is justified given
the substantial residual capacity now available to HEVECAM from the first
project (heavy equipment, workshops, trained manpower) and that, in view of
HEVECAM's performance and recent international tenders for deforestation work



- 17 -
in Cameroon, it is the less costly alternative. Since the purchase of land
clearing and other agricultural equipment was financed under the first proj-
ect, depreciation costs would be specifically excluded in calculating reimburs-
able amounts on force accounts operations. Services for chain sawing operations
would be procured on the basis of price quotations solicited from local
contractors. HEVECAM's management and administrative expenses would total
US$28.2 million of which US$9.4 million would be covered by IDA/Bank financ-
ing. Expatriate costs (US$48,000 per man-year) total US$2.9 million (of which
IDA/Bank US$1 million). Management services totalling US$2.7 million under an
existing technical assistance contract would be financed by CCCE.
Disbursement
49.       The IDA credit and IBRD loan would be disbursed over about five
years and would cover 33 percent of total project costs including taxes and 35
percent of total costs net of taxes. The IDA credit would be disbursed first.
It is expected that no loan proceeds would be disbursed until the second half
of FY83. Bank/IDA financing would be disbursed on a pari passu basis with
CCCE, CDC and Government. In addition, CCCE would parallel finance cars and
light tractors, technical assistance from SAFACAM and project related studies,
totalling US$4.9 million. Government would also finance 100 percent of the
costs of food crop development, applied rubber research and the smallholder
program totalling US$5 million. Costs during the first three quarters of FY80
totalling an estimated US$6.1 million would be financed by Government (US$1.2
million) and CDC (US$4.9 million). Disbursements against contracts would be
fully documented, while in the case of work carried out by HEVECAM on force
account, disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure verifi-
able from supporting evidence which would be made available during project
supervision. HEVECAM's financial management has been strengthened by the
appointment of a financial and administrative director. Annual audits will be
carried out by independent auditors and will be submitted to the Bank.
Organization and Management - Plantation Development
50.       As under the first project, responsibility for the creation of
the plantation, its maintenance and eventual exploitation has been assigned
to SAFACAM, a Cameroonian pilantation company with international affiliations,
under the terms of the existing technical assistance contract concluded at the
commencement of the first project and scheduled to last for eight years. This
contract has operated satisfactorily to date and is expected to continue
through the five year period of the proposed project. SAFACAM assists HEVECAM
in the preparation of annual budgets and, through formal inspection visits,
keeps the HEVECAM Board advised on all matters relevant to the successful
implementation of the program of development. In addition, assurances have
been obtained that HEVECAM would at all times employ a technical manager,
industrial manager and a fiLnancial and administrative manager with qualifica-
tions acceptable to the Bank. (Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 18 -
Training
51.       On-the-job training of skilled labor and intermediate level staff
has proved effective during the first project and will continue. Most manage-
ment recruits have a sound agricultural background but lack management experi-
ence. HEVECAM is very conscious of this problem; a training and development
program anticipating the long-term needs of the company has been submitted to
its Board of Management for approval. Management trainees who show good
potential will also be given the opportunity to travel within Cameroon or
overseas to gain experience on successful rubber estates.
Long-Term Plans
52.       Government will prepare a long-term plan (not later than December
1981) for the future development of perennial crops in the coastal area of
Cameroon. This study would take into account human and financial resource
requirements of such a plan and wouLd make recommendations regarding the
allocation of resources between industrial plantations, intermediate scale
operations and smallholder activities. (Section 4.03 of the draft Credit
Agreement). Existing plans already envisage the completion of a 15,000 ha
plantation within the Niete concession, but any subsequent Bank group partici-
pation in the further expansion of HEVECAM would be contingent upon the
acceptability of the long-term plan by Government and evidence of the com-
pany's sustained financial viability.
Rubber Production
53.       Production from trees planted over the 4,200 ha area during the
first project would commence in 1982, and the crop from these areas would
reach a peak of 9,700 tons in about 1994. Production from the 9,300 ha to be
planted under the proposed project would reach a maximum of about 21,000 tons
before the end of the century, by which time, assuming the full 15,000 ha
program were to be realized, the total production would reach 34,500 tons per
year.
Market and Prices
54.       Although no long term forecasts of rubber prices have been issued
covering the period beyond 1990, there can be little doubt that the cost
competitiveness of natural rubber with other elastomers, has been further
strengthened by the recent increases in the prices of petroleum products. The
total demand for all rubbers is expected to increase at a rate of about 5
percent over the next decade, and at about 3 percent between 1990 and 2000.
To meet this demand, the present global production of 15 million tons has to
be doubled over the next 20 years, to reach 30 million tons by the year 2000.
For natural rubber to maintain its present 30 to 35 percent market share,
production must be increased to at least 10 million tons. For Malaysia, the
world's leading producer of natural rubber, this would mean increasing the
area in tapping from 1.7 to 2.7 million hectares. Quite apart from the diffi-
culty of finding another million hectares of suitable land, in competition



- 19 -
with currently more profitable crops such as oil palm, there is the even more
difficult problem of attracting another 250,000 workers to the industry in
order to ensure harvesting of the additional crop. Indonesia, the second
largest producer, with a smallholder-dominated rubber sector, and a high
proportion of over-aged trees, would also be expected to have problems mobi-
lizing the cap'+-al and manpower resources required to maintain its market
position. It may be concluded, therefore, that there are excellent prospects
for West African countries, such as Cameroon, to acquire an increasing share
of the market.
55.       The HEVECAM project would produce technically specified block rub-
bers equivalent to the Malaysian "SMR" grades. The average price is expected
to equal that of RSS1 (first quality ribbed smoked sheets) which is the basis
for market price forecasts. Based on price projections through 1990, and
the best estimates that can be made beyond that period, it is expected that
the average price obtained over the 41 years exploitation period, would be
CFAF 301 per kg, in constant 1979 terms, c.i.f. West European ports.
Financial Returns
56.       Due to cost increases experienced during the first HEVECAM project,
the revised estimated financial rate of return for the 4,200 ha planted is 3.8
percent, as compared with an estimated return of 10 percent at appraisal for
the 5,800 ha expected to be planted. Based only on the incremental costs of
creating an additional 9,300 ha of plantation, the second project would show a
financial rate of return of about 11 percent.   For the 13,500 ha estate which
would result from a combination of the first and second projects, the rate of
return would be about 8 percent. These calculations are based upon all
investment and operating costs and benefits during the useful life of the two
areas planted; the additional 1,500 ha cleared under the proposed Second
HEVECAM Project are not taken into account. With a 15,000 ha plantation at
full maturity, HEVECAM's annual operating costs, in constant 1979 terms, would
be about CFAF 5.5 billion (US$25 million). Revenues from sales of rubber
would exceed twice this amount, CFAF 11.5 billion (US$52 million). By the
year 2000 annual income from rubber sales would be more than double operating
costs. Over the period 1975-2000 cumulative net profit in current terms would
be CFAF 98 billion (US$467 million). With cumulative depreciation of CFAF 41
billion (US$194 million), the internal cash generation during the period would
be CFAF 139 billion (US$669 million). It is probable that these self-generated
funds would be reinvested in new plantings.
Project Benefits
57.       The project would provide continuing support to Government's plans
for the economic development of the Kribi region. Development of this
sparsely populated, forest area is keyed to the expansion of industrial scale
plantation agriculture. Depleted, logged over forest of little economic value
would be replaced by perennial tree crops, principally rubber, oil palm and
coconut. The rubber planted under the HEVECAM projects would provide the
first major contribution to this development. The expansion of rubber produc-
tion would significantly reduce Cameroon's present heavy dependence on cocoa
and coffee for its agricultural export earnings.



- 20 -
58.       At maturity, the HEVECAM development would provide full-time employ-
ment for about 7,000 workers. Ancillary employment opportunities, created by
the existence of this large industrial complex, would make a contribution to
the future development and economic prosperity of the region.
59.       Given the start up problems with the first project, the expected
rate of return on the first 4,200 ha was 7.5 percent. The marginal economic
rate of return for the 9,300 ha project is estimated at 15 percent. Thus, the
rate of return for the two projects combined is estimated at 11 percent.
Completion of the 15,000 ha estate would provide an economically sound invest-
ment that could withstand substantial increases in costs or shortfalls in
benefits while still remaining viable. A sensitivity analysis, based on the
more cautious of the two price hypotheses tested, shows that in spite of a 28
percent increase in costs, or a 22 percent fall in benefits, the economic rate
of return for the 15,000 ha estate would not fall below 9 percent.
Risks
60.       While measures already taken by HEVECAM to resolve the general
labor supply problem such as housing, medical and social services (see para.
43 above) will probably be successful, there may be a longer term difficulty
in obtaining skilled tappers once full production commences beyond the project
period. The long-term plan for development of perennial crops (see para. 52)
is expected to make recommendations for a course of action which will balance
the need for labor with its availability. The principal agricultural risk
would be Fomes root disease. This is inherent in any development of rubber
plantations from natural forests in which the disease is endemic. However,
the precautions that have been incorporated in the project design (methods of
deforestation and land preparation) are considered adequate to ensure a
satisfactory stand of trees that would produce the expected yields.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Cameroon and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the United
Republic of Cameroon and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bank, the Association and HEVECAM, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       Special conditions of loan and credit effectiveness (Section 6.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 5.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement) would be that:



- 21 -
(a) a Financing Agreement has been concluded on behalf of
the Borrower and HEVECAM; and
(b)  the effectiveness conditions of the CCCE Loan Agreement
and the CDC Loan Agreement have been duly met.
64.       I am satisfied that the.proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 21, 1979



- 22 -                                ANNEXI
TABLE 3A                                 Page  1  of  5  pages
X  COOlt - SOCIAL IDICATOIS DATA STrT
CAHUOON                   luzmcI   GRoups (ADJUSTED A5jRACES
WAID ARIA (TROUSAJD  O.  (.)                                                 - MOST RLCN  ES MAT' -
TOTAL            474                                                     SANE        SAME     Nt  RICHRZ
ACRICULTUIAL     156.4                                M0ST RECENT      GOCRAPIC   INCOM5         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      UGION 7c  GROUP /d    GOUP /I
CGP PER CAPITA (US$)                 130.0       250.0    460.OL            306.1      467.5      1097.7
EURGY CONSUMTrON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS 07 COAL EQ(IVZAIt)       55.0        91.0      98.0            80.6       262.1       730.7
POPULATION-AND VITAL STATISTICS
POtPltATIO, MID-YER (ILLI0S)         5.7         6.8       7.9
UR    o POuLAnoN (7nCINT OF TOTAL) 13.9         20J3      27.2             17.1       24.6        49.0
POPUATION PROJECTIONS
POPuLATION  i YA  2000 (MILLIONS)                       13.0
STATIONARY POPULATTIO  (MaLLIORS)                       32.0
TEAR STATIONAR  POPULATION IS URACMD                  2135
POPULATION DSIT
Pnr SQ. KIt.                      12.0        14.0      17.0             18.4       45.3        44.6
PU  SQ. KM. AGRICULTUAL LAND      36.0        U.0       51.0             50.8      149.0       140.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCTU   (PtRE)
0-14 YES.                         38.5        41.3      43.0             ".1        45.2        41.3
15-64 YES.                         59.2        55.7      54.0            52.9       51.9         55.3
65 ns. MAD AOE                      2.3         3.0       3.0              2.8        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROIiT RATE (PRCET)
TOTAL                              1.4         1.8       2.2             2.7         2.7         2.4
URA                                 ..         5.6       8.0             5.7         4.3         4.5
CRUDE SIRTH RATE (PER TOSAND)       43.0        42.1      43.0            46.3        39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOSAND)      27.0        22.0      19.0             17.2       11.7         9.2
GROSS REIODUCTION RATL               2.3ZI       2.7       2.8              3.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOS S, ANUAL (THOUSANS)        ..          ..        ..
USURS (PELCENT OF MAID   EN)    ..              ..        ..              ..       13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NURRITION
IWDEX oF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          70.4       100.0     102.0            94.3        99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOtIES (PERCENT 0O
REqUIREmNTS)                    96.0        96.0    102.0             89.5       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          59.0        59.0      59.3            55.8       54.3         64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        23.0/b   16.5             17.9       17.4        23.5
C2ILD (AGES 1-4) MDRtALITY RATE     40.0        32.0      27.0             22.3       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EVECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    37.0         42.0      44.0            47.0       54.7         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          167.0/i        ..        ..              ..       68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      26.0            20.3       34.4        60.8
URBAN                               ..          ..      35.0            53.9       57.9         75.7
0RmAL                               ..          ..      22.0            10.1       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..             2.5       40.8        46.0
URJAN                               ..          ..        ..            62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            13.9       27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         34000.0/f   25960.0  13980.0          17424.7     6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PtR NURSINC PERSON     5210.0/f    2470.0   1890.0           2506.6      1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            530.1/f     310.0    380.0            502.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                               ..          ..    350.0            201.4      272.7        253.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..          1403.6     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..          ..        ..            23.4       27.5        22.1
HOUS ING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..       5.2             4.9        5.4         5.3
URSAN                               ..          ..       5.1             4.9        5.1         5.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.2             5.5        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          1.9
URAN                                ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          1.6
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         ..          2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..       26.1        50.0
URSAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       45.1         71.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..        9.9         17.3



-23 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
CAMEROONW-SOC1AL4 INDICATORS DATA SKEET
CAMEROON                    IEFERENCE GROUPS (A=DSTED AyERAGES
- NOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAIS        SAME.    NEXT HIHE-R
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    iNCt          IfNCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMAE /b         REGION 1c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT JATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 65.0        107.0      120.0             59.0       82.7        102.5
MAILE                 87.0        124.0     133.0             64.2        87.3       108.6
FEMALE                43.0        91.0      106.0             44.2        75.8        97.1
SECONDUY:   TOTAL                   2.0          9.0       Ii.0              9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                   4.0         13.0      23.0             12.0        33.0        38.4
FEMAALE                1.0          5.0      11.0              4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OP SECO#DARY)  23.0          23.0       23.0              7.0         9.8        11.5
PUPLL-TEACER RATIO
PI.IARY                               ..        48.0       51.0             42.2       34.1         35.8
SECONDAILY                           *.         24.0       23.0             22.9       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATt (PERCENT)         151.0       12.0         ..             20.8        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TEWOSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          6.0        7.8              4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         36.0       96.0             44.3       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAD
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..              2.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPE& ("DAILY GeNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULAtION                    2.0/h       3.0        3.9              5.6        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  D.1            ..        1.0              0.4         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
tOtAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2230.0       2560.0    2783.0
EMALE (PERCENT)                       ..          ..      40.0              31.9       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              78.5         75.9       73.8             77.6       62.7         43.5
fIDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.6          6.0        6.3              7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.3        37.8       35.7             40.8       37.1         33.5
MALE                                    *-           *-      45.6             53.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                  ..          ..       26.9             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.2        1.3              1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCE.4T OF PRIVATE lNCOMK
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOOSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..       15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF NOUSEROLDS    ..            ..         ..               ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF gOUSEROLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVEM  INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      169.0           187.6       241.3        270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       88.0             96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            138.4      179.7        282.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION 8ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       15.0            34.5        24.8         20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0             48.7        37.5         35.3
Nor available
Not applicable.
NOTEs
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is noL uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower hiddle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /I  Intermediate
Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita. 1976);  /f  1962, including ex-South Cameroons under British Administra-
tion;  Ig  West Cameroon only;   /h   1964-19766;   /i  1960-65;   /I Fiscal year July-June.
Most Recent Estimace of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-24-                                    ~~~~ANNEX I
or a~to ~ICA!  ~Page 3 of 5 pages
dJ=heh*the dt  o.            free e0enOee 6inOOLLY Jodge  the A00  eatkeittlve ea  -elol, It eati  eLse be Geted thee they  swot be Lmterve.
b.ma o the loo" of etanardined defntionsloee omtomneete us"n by diffevent .0tutrise in oolieetlag the data. Th. data m,e, onethlesaa,
bmesfd. to dee.oribe oed-v  of  IA deU, iLdICAat  teseis, sag sharetWoxM         44e s mjanor differece  beoteems  ptwi.a.
= 101e                 MM   orw ema InAcator sr o.  elxatlo.. elgtd eetcrlo moemm., oloiadio  the e*tr uml,ss  or the indicatOr oat the  nO.t  n0ad
onobyndh Imj7 th.i leek of data, SPOUP  "e.e.g   of SU1 iAadltOre Co  CAPito.1 beePIn  Oil.                 WeOo     enid of li.lceor  of Acoe.  to Water* en   ta
MitpoooL, Haoeig, 18cmm. Bletribetloa end PetyM for other coanto? grmp are PoOWLation-IeIrt0d gtoenoitr au 8.8.8olet gteeslee of the eatomrob ales sod
(Die theeat eedU  WM.n. tooeoo bce.  lopta. (oren  ofnonlorol  tc.`.  rb.  nd  .eel
sotl   rfw*g area compreth   lend ae  end inland o-ter..                      etrf pOOplo (et.., Ob8   n   Oe)sre   ynoeadesa.
~~~,olar1 -   t~t onen  .atnaa.of erlcco.re  ar. u ed trerllY           pernsotegec of their reepeorti  ppu,tletieg. bootst 01080o.1 W L-ld"
or p.eenhy foroo~n  pnetroe.sorke  endkitChen 9aZdieM  o1 to              the cl.o11tiom end di.pee..I,  itb ow eitbo.  t,eeaeet, of Wmenevi-et.
IL. felIn.                                                                            end oeet-ots  by nater-hoen  AYotem  or the one of Pit WriOie  end sAilor
P%MWITA   GNP per '.pit. ..t   et  -mt  -kt~~~~~~~~~ prie,; PM        "      *f        OPosatic. dtlided by OAnko  Of PoentiCinS PIWeiOiam
1960,           w-soenelo  sthod eo World Bemk Atl.a  1967  benis);a-   e    1rtt  eI
10,197,0, ed 1978 data.                                                            Peplalo  or  3.10  Person - Popelation dlided by -.br of proticiag 8L1a
O CA      - tnaoal cow.oeptiou of ocwmertil .."a500               edCsl.e*t  0ORO'C, pratlCsi ourOe, sod  esiotstt Oourse. 
(onelendliiepotrolse, oatii,. go  end bydrn-,  -1oea  end *."                      Ponitin           doc talBd - total. orb". end -ora  - Ppmlation (total. orbn,
th.ruel e1ntrloaty) in kilo egrs  of con]  qloeent Per oe9it.; 1960,                    odw.])did,bythiroptv  ,.eofbptnbd.a.lloi
1970, end 1976 dAt.                                                                     poblic sod pri-at. gsee  end apei.Li.od hoetpit&L end rehabilitatio.netntore.
Poopitals ore oetabli.oet. peremetently lOf fed by etam     - I.s.O.n  byi
POPUEATION ANFD VITAL STATIPT CS                                                          Iottblihebm te pooviding printip.l.1y ottodbl cors ore Met inoludo. ORMi.
Totalp4pn            d-Ydil7U1lioneo) - A. of liay 1; 1960. 197, end                    boepitalA,i.bevr  tonod  health  "en  edlo.l  mst.re not poosootly etaffed
1977 data.                                                     By . ~~~~~     ~~~pbyeoon(t by a medi.al eneiot-tnootrs., edf,etc.) ohlb offer
Urban Phoeletion(ovn   fttl   dato o  obs to total po.P.ltion;                          iA-ptliet eo.emdatllo  end provido . l1wited wee.. of mediosi feellitle..
dfre dfitone o  orb_   nr   sy effort -eptrohility of data                Ad   -i.   2otal sa-or of edn.loone to or di-oherpe  C rot,
esog conotri..; 1960, 1970, end 1975 data.                                            h-.pitil. siOb   ten               fbed..
Popo.tin JAV~   300- Torrent potolatino pro.]entlos ore badedon            lJ.
1ttlpo,pulation by eg  o ed eoo;end their sortality end feriLity         'ibssSn   fMshl   pros~rhueod      oa.we    n   uo 
r.t.. ro'Jentico  prareters for sertlit  rat.  opri.* of thre.                          hoeshl   0800o      otpo   niiol   n   hr   ligqnO                        o
level..-0 aenna  Uife _VwetwOeyt birth lnoreoaleg 010  setoh                        their  ni. meele.  A boarde  or lodger soy or W  sot ho lainded in the
per ospits, incom  level, sod fmeLe life oroecteny stahiiolldg et                   honisbld for etatiotloo1 porpose.
77.5 gero.Tha par*etotere for fertility rate else h-v  thres 1ev1l                Averene _o. of ooen  prrb- oa.whn -                       -a    Al-.Avra. soeer
"eosnln  dooLins in fert lity ecoordiog toloW inaeve  en1 d poat                    ofproaper roe   n            ran   n  wrd.  oooupied osoentona  d,eollegs,
CeeIp' ol--ie  porfore-.. Etobctonatry i0 then anolg.d on  of thee.                 reepentivei.  Poolliog  .=Loode no-Pooesfle  stot,fotu .een  Ononopid Porte.
nine  -b1heti-n  of  ortelity and fertility trsed. for pojootton                 A0000 t  C.1-trilt  Iomet ofideelilj!,   - total. orbs, e-dMrrl - Coo-
p_opeece.                                                                           vetoa   oeloe010oetiit                cnIvo  qoer   ters     peroeniege or
dintonoy nonitio   - n aetaloaoy pronatln tere100  grntitotal, -rIo, and rorel dooLliogo roopectivoly:
siog  thebirt  rat  isea.1 to the doa1th rato, end als  the ego
.trootor.   cie   onotoot. Thi. L. achieved only Oftor fertility rtes          10.AZIBO
d00l1ev toth  roplecseot level of telt not ropo&.ti.o rete, nhe                   Adutd  ol etPtios
cen  teeeion of  -an   rpi-nO   itself en-otly.  Th. ettiosary pope-               Primeo sohoo  - total oem  en  f .0.. - rooo total, mae end f.so.to en,el1-
Iltionni,  so. -Ostietod o. the boole of th. prnloted uharect.ri.tioe                 eso  of- all ego t the prisery levl e  pomnenteget of roepotica pri80y
of the p:pluiato  in the year 2000, end the rate of tonlins of fertility              ethonl-ege  popltioeo; norsolly inold.. obldren egd .-U  year  bt
ret. t0 rLeeltmnt leve.                                                               041.1td for different lsenth. of prlsory edocation; for  -ootrioe  ith
Year nttoayonvbtioe La reached - The year 00.0 sttioney popultlo                        unvrd se tlon earoisot any  -xosd 100 percet 0000  00.  p.PilS
eine iso boon weethd.                                                                  rbhlOot or shov  th. offiCl.i .ohool ego.
P,pa,ti- D .. lty                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~S-codar  rho    total, eelt . engd fenal  - Copotod .o t.10; teo.odery
Per ej7it    Mid-.yo     po70Latioe per ol-a. kilm.ter- (100 hentares) of               edioatl    euie   t leat  _o or yasoapproved prinery ioeiw-tlon;
t.t                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~proeldee genoral o.tohetl l, or tesoher treiing ioetrtootla  for popoil
peroz so. .  wic.tootre1 lend   Coetite  -n ebve for .grio,ltor.1 1od                   u.oil  of 12 to 17 year  of ego; oorr-pInden. I--rse  are d ...rs.liy
pn'antino AR  St,ecturw oret  -Children (0-lb Years),* eoking-e.                        Vooetio.lenoe -LI-.t(ooetO   eotay   Voni nalint,t~ti...oOod
15-b  yeas),  nd rtire   (h   ea.ed over) so peroestege  of old-year             150c.10., in"    tia,  orohrprgr-s  nAclb oport. independeetly or 
PpoLeltien;I16, 1970  and 197   aa                                                      dPor-tt  of osoondr.7 ltI-oia
Poonatin Oos,t Pee (oret   total.1  An-oL ornoth rast.  of tot.l eid-            PoP-teeoher retlo - prinoy  end eooonderf   Total etudete e-roled 10
yearpepoatloe fr 15-,   07,ed19-7.prisory e-A eeonday level di,ided by O.Mbr* of teenh.r. in the corme.
Pogtie  bothRen,geeen                       A hn -dnoL groth rates of -ba                ep..ding brol..
P. eitionofo  1950 :      lpm;W   ;ien  19,70-77.                                     Adtlt literenY wets  perceot ( -  Ilteree eduite (sbio to reed end -rit.  U e
Cr.d-Wt.A                nh-al live births Per tho,oesd of eld-                           apretse of tota  adot popoIiaton wpd 15 Year  ond over.
yet,   n   1       0   end 1977 data
Crd:Z tb   q;    r thp0            A-el. dot. isPer thOolood of eld-yoa              ONU4PCB
pooain  1)0   I"0," n  1977r aa.?een   Cor  (per tho.l.e.d p.ol.eti.o(   P ...oeger oars compriec entor oers
Grose Reprodoti.. Pate  1- Avee   noie  of d.oghter.  on          ill bear              eeetiog l.s. then 0ig1 Persons; -noida   obolanoes,  ear... sod ellitety
In her toroL] reprd`tive period if ohs  ropri=ooe  pre..eet age-                      -ebolne.
.pecfif  fertility retee;  -ouIly five-y-a   ersen eding 10 1960,                  Rodio PR.ivere (oP- tIOoosd 1oOobtiOo(   All 1yp00 ofreiee for radio
1970, and 1975.                                                                      bfoAdet.t  tO ge...e-1 pboit per thousend Of pool.ti-o; e-n.1itd.nieed
ofiy  bnan  - Ooepor   Onm.e. hoosds(.- tnol 0I0   of                            reo.i,ers tooootrieo and I. Y-ar  oh..   goetnof r.di.ost   a  in
o.opi     _ o   ith-ot  eie   le   -oPie  of national famIly                 effett; date for recet years -oY out be ocepaeble0.0 ioc        0 - ot-triee
p1500105 progre.                                                                       bolished licinoig.
Fenl  icPofin.  - "e'v, (oorvot ofnrried oo-e  - Perentage of neitld                  TVPetosPrtt,en   vOlti..) - TV reosi-ere for iboodonet to denra
ooo    f tlld-beao I ge (15-0. yerelT_00birth-cotrol d-rio..                     pelopr hceodppltin   oldes unlioened TIV rseni-rer  In -otnnie
to ell  errisd ooe  in A.ee.g. doo,.                                                  and in y-ar  on regiotration of TV oats -0  Ioeff.ot.
Ionoope  Ciroolaion1 (por thMuendopeoInttion) - Sbo-  tie a-erg  circ.l.ti..
FOOD PND N tTPITON                                                                        ofdily oeoerI intereet noPnpr  defind  n   perindioei pbhli.atio
tode- of coot r-tuntiofl pr Co,il. (i99-fl-I00) .Inde  of per ..pit.                   devoted pri-orly to reoordiog general n-o.  It is -onidered to he  daIly"
=noen  prodotio     f f .lfo  odtI... Prodotion vnId.s coed ond                       if itopar  00 least foo  tisenne,t....
feded io I0 .lendar year baste.  Coflditiee cover prison good..t                 Cinen A000.1 Attendoot  Pew C.Pit. new Year - Boed -n the  latro  tirhet.
(e..  ugrnneinted.    f .eugr) hioh ar  edible end 00t001  .toOiet                o.ld d-rlg the year, inolodi.g edolenio    to drive-in  cinemo  an-obite.
(eg   offe   so  enae doitd).  Aggreg.t. predomtion of e.-b  -Womy                ui
Is based en nationlae.       epnoorpieoih
Per -noit. -onlr of oiries (ooot of reoir-ots  . Coapotedfo                       00  O
enery eeivleotof  et ood  uppteeaetiahl  inooutry per oei          Ttllbr fre(thouseto) - Ecoorcoe14  entice  -esn                  Olodig~toe
per day.  A,eioble o          cpiv oepriee togetlto produotien, Isport. 10.0        f-rne  enFunmplyed but -tldiog boh.         ive  otudnte, eto. Definition.
enporte, antoeogee intook.  Pet .uPpliee eolod.d  enin  fe-d, eoed.,                in v-i-t  ..rtiries at  tot  opepreble..
0uentitiesuao.d t,, food pwooessiog, and II---e in diotritbotioo. P09qir.-        !IA!s ) - Peale labr forneI no perontfoe of Itotl lator foro..
see to -re -tieatod by FAO be...d on phyio.eogi-I ...od. for ormaL                  _it      eret) - ab r freIt forming, for.otry, rontng end
eotivtty nod benith ...noid,rigo -ori -etal teoper.tore, body oeighte,              flobiog es per-tege of total labor fot.-.-
ago ed ceo dlhtribotion  of popoition, nd  iloniog IT prroet for                 tno~ypep) - Labor frort  In l.             g   oonat-utioO, esofeturig end
lot   tbneold level.                                                          etityoter ed gao .e prntgeo  total labor force.
Per 'nP,t" ouppip of proto (cr-s  petdey  -  rt.otl  oonteot of pi,                 Perticminti.. Rnto (percent - otl    le,oc  femal  - PNrtitip.ti.n or
otlant  lpl  f foodper da. Pet spply of food ito teloed soat-oity rote. ar  -nputd a.1t1  sae,nodfae1.wfoe  sp-
abov. Pe.quli-eto  for all  .oori       .et.bliebed by USDA proide for a            -oetwg. of total, mole ad fesleI pepunino   l  gsrest Ivey
0101i,  elioann  Of 60 gres  Of total protein per dy and 20 grs  of                 1960, 190.ed 1975 data.  Thes   r  SlOe pertiipation, rates relecting
s1oi -oead polo. protein, of ehiob 10 gres   iould b. animal protein.              og..-...trotte of tiepopultion, end long tine trend.  A f-e .etieatee
Thes  etdenrd. are   . lnr Ite   hs   f 75 ges  of total protein end                are fee. otional  -ouoe.
27 gems  f nosol  roto o a  t  vrc   o t he:r- oni,  rpse  b  A           fonno Sp          .Yno  hatto - Patio of popail.tion onde  15 and 65an.vrt
In Ito Thrd  reld Fod Surey                                                        tie laborfoc  In  g  groop of 15-64 fea..
per caplta erot=i  oup,lry from   ienol end Pa-e  - Protein suVpply of food
derived fro   oteo  n  pjvoi  grnopCrOoy                                       I       DT1SITP~RSCtV
Cbdt(ge  10  M.tit Pat  'perl _bdoce           r  =  ,oo deatbe per thouad-rto eo  Prvte boet (both 10 cash end kind) - Peteiosd by richest
ineodoP 1-4 yea., to  hbldren 10 thie  eg -coP; for nest level-                      poroent, lloboe  20 pe_et,pnet20erot odooetOpret
opiog  -totrien dat. d-ri t fro, life tnbleo!.                                        Of hOooithldO.
Life foE- nre Bt th            A(---ore, oubor Of year of life                        oieoddnlt  Poverty 0000- tlevel (00$ per tepitn:). -b- enod -rurl1
eoolon   t birl.n; 190, 170, so d1t. lI.                                        Ab.oloto poverty innm   lvletitooeIrebb    hi.b e eiola1
=ooo    oraity Pate (p-r tbhoed(- 9 0001le            fIfn.at?00                     ntritionaIly ndeq,ote diet p10I .. eoeti.1 non-focd reqirmeatet I0 not
y-e  of oge pew thtu-sd 11Iv birthn.                                                  offordabl..
A-cvnoO,tez  dater ter-t ofonoaln      oa,we.ndrnri                                  Eti-tltd Pointice  ovrty 0000  leelBS, per  -aital - uban end ro-l 
lOne       eplr   oa,tis,edrua    liwaonl  aocee  to                           Bre  rltvpvoylcneeeli    e-hrd of -verge pew topita
-f.o en-r .opply  iv.eetreeted n-fet.teserrs or untreoned but                         pere..al i III-  of th. ..-otry. Urben leve  Ie deeioed fntie  -rurl leve
- .bo tsoioted eater nu.h ac tint fee prtooted boreholee, npringe,                    with odIoetmnt for higher cot of lidiog it urbane-        e
sod  -nitary ovll, no pe-etog- Of the-r repective poPolation.. In                   ftene    nolto  belt   be te Poery 0000  100 I                Heoen    - win  no
ant Poae      OIllo fooinlo or ctendpost Located not -ore then                ruVl   P.roet of1 p ltbi.o (uranan  r-rl   1  ar t            hit. poor'.
,   t.n.e frue ,os  oaf1 to b ot-id-rd no being 011010 reaonable
o...e f, tont h._ e. i  ease  -ra  r--oobl.   -.05   -.ad LI.ly
tin:t tie houses fvr  seer  of tle housetold It -to  have to opod eE-oteic od Sootal Date Dlicoiti.
olorportop- -tro ;ert of the dyo -o fetthiog tie fostly. .tate  .eed.                                                  toool    nAl.y.io end ProJeoti.n. Dpertennt
A.g..t 1979



-25-                                                                ANNEX I
Page 4of 5 pages
CAMEROON
EUONOMIC DEVIOf~TDT
(Amounts in millions of S1.5.dolars
Actual                        Pro)ected   :           966-  1971 -   19 76 -   1979 - 197           979      98
1967     1972      1976-       1979      1981    192        - 971    19 76    1981      1985~       f       99     1
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
5-Year Average at 1974- 197  Prces & Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product           1,506.9  2,032.5  2,26.7  2,709.3    3,029.9  3,718.6             24.3   2.5     6.6     5-.6-      101.3   97.6   103.5
Gains from Terms of Trade 0.)    -1.         -17.       17.1      6-7%       .6.o   -125.0         03.5 .86.5              .-1.               2.4    -3.5
Gross Domestic Income'           1,487.3  2,01570  7,-277t9  9,7777       73,039  7=5               5.1   3.9     5.9    4.4          44   TTr   i=
Import (cine.  ENF)                498 5    666.3    706.1    955.0         981.6  1,112.3    ~ :    -:3          5.2    2.6          33.5   34.6    31.0
Exports   1  (import capacity)   649.8        57    655.5    8664.5          853.5   .29-            .2    .7     5.1    2.7          30.2   30.4    27.6
Resource Gap                        497T      go.737W           fl70 5              '120.0           .      .3  **    T                               3W
Consumption Expenditures         1,253.9  1,729.6  1,927.6  2,269.6    2,650.3  3,065.0             6.6    1.     6.9    5.3          86.3   81.0    85.3
Investment   '1 (jncl. stocks)   186.3    376.2    463.5    639.8           681.7    667.9         6.0    1.3  1,0.2       .2         12.6   23.0    18.0
Domestic Savings                   233.3    285.3    359.2    527.8         553.7    527.4         6.6    4.6  11.1         -         15.'   19.0    16.7
Riational Savings                  177.7    262.0    3o4.4    657.2          673.2    618.6        10.9    2.5  11.6   -1.5           12.0   16.5    11.6
MERCHNAIDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
Imports 
Capital goods                     60.8      89.1    160.2    275.7        336.6    677.6       1,6.9   20.2   12.8    9.6           28.6   29'.8    30.2
Intermediate goods (%"lfusls)   87.3    133.6    25-7.2    393.3          510.1    812.8         8.9   12.8   16.8   12.9          65.7   42.6    51.6
Fuels and related materials        B.3      15.2      60.6     93.8         -         -         12.9   28.7       .     -            7.2   10.2      -
of which., Petroleums            8.3      15.2      60.6     93.8         -         -         12.9   28.7      .     -             7.2   10.2      -
Consumptio god                    1...6     634-9    105.1    16i4        19       21.6         12.2    8.5   16.8   10.6          18.7   17.5..   18.6
Total Mac.mot  (off)             188: --   302.8   -5-613.1    9-26. 2    1,706.5 1, 582.-0     10.0   16.3   13.0    9.6           o.    o.        0.
Exports
Primary products ~xci. fuels)   163.6    199.9    669.3    739.6          882.5  i,3o6.9         6.8   16.7   12.0   10.0           93.2   86.2    86.8
Fuiels and related materials      -         -         .       102.3       107.9    120.0          .       .      .      2.7          -    11.6       8.0
of which:  Petroleums           -         -        -        102.3       107.9    120.0          .       .      .     2.7           -    u-.6       8.o
manuacued Roods                   16.6      20.9    36.1       36.3        61.2      79.1        7.6   22.2   16.7   13.            6.8     6.1      5.2
Totl Mrch  Exports (fob)    '1'52    5=58    '57T6 4 T79                l-7-fl7  1rwr            6.9   16.9   12.5    9.4         I 0T  i57-MD
Tourism and Border. Tradie
Merchandise Trade indices                      Average 197-7  -10
Export Price Index              4N7.5       57.1     99. 7    135.2       155.7    171.8         9.8   10.0   10.0    6.1
Import Price Index                63.7      58.9    107.9    128.9        165.6    193.5         7.0   15.1    9.0   _7.
Terms of Trade Index              91.9      97.0    932.6    106.9         96.0      88.8        1.8   -1.5      . 9   .2.0
Exports volume Index              78.2      93.6    108.9    126.1        163.2    181.1         4.1    2.6    7.8    6.2
VALUE ADDED By SECTOR              Annual  Da~ta at 1_974675  Pices and Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      522.6    659.7    752.9    872.1         964.9  1,138.1        6.7    3.       5 .5    6.5        36.7   32.2    30.6
Industry and Mining L            262.1    374.8    439.3    570.2         683.2    863.5        5.6    6.4    9.6    7.2           17.6   21.0    23.2
Service                          722.4    998.0  1,076.51,267.0           416113  1 717.0       3.6    5.5      5.6    5.2         67.9   66.5    66.2
Total       r3r~~~~~ 97~~577  9377  2,709.3            33~~~~~~73 t718W6      6.3     .6      .6     5.6               100.0~  100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sPercent of GDP
(Cen~,tralGovemument, current prices and exchange rates)                                                                              19(    1(9         98
Current Receipts                 129.3    212.9    639.       777.3       836.0       ..       123   17.7   14.9         ..        17.3   15.9
Current Expenditures             129.8    188.0    41j        71.6        624.0       ..        73 14 101                .         151      51
.ogeary Savings                 -.       26.       196      6.           1.         ..    27.6   25.64                .           2.2     .8
other Public Sector               13.8        .8     77.3       .         -26.0o       ..                .       .      . 
Public Sector Investment          69.3    120.6    2.91.0       .         573.2       .        14.8   26.1    5.7       .           9.8
us $ million
cuRRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                    Actual           _       PFrelim. Proj.        DETAIL ON                               At end 19 74/75 P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)              196C7    19 727    1977    L2_8   19 81            PUBLIC SECTOR                     Fourth  Plan    %of Total
Education                                *fl74   T177h       23.5      17.0      .          INVESTMENT  PROGRAM                  (19 76 / 77  -1980o /813)
Other Social2 Services                      .7     6.9       io0.8    10.7      ;           Social Sectors                          653.2        20.1
Agriculture                               5.6      3.-7       4.8       4.6      .         Agriculture                              365.1        16.2
Other Economic Services                  ni.6      8.o       13.6     i6.0o     .           Industry and Mining                      85.9         3.8
Administration and Defense               59.5    59.6        462.6     68.8      .          Power                                   330.5        16.7
Oither                                    8.8      4.1        4.7       4 j                 Transport and communications            858.7        38.1
Total Current Expenditures              100.0   100.0(      102o.0    100.    7OO0         Other                                    160.0        JZ--
TotalI Expenditures                   2,253.6       100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-     196 7     197 1    197 6        FINANCING
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)             1966~   197 1        197 6    1981
Average ICOR                                         ..        37.'3~0   t76o    978 M.Public Sector Savings                          652.0        28.9
Import Elasticity                                    .           .81       .56     .89           Program aid counterpart              295.0        13.1
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                       ..o8                  .23     .28           Foreign Project Aid                1.,306.6     -
M4arginial Rational Savings Rate                     ..          .08      .16      .26           Total Financing                    2,253.2       100
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total  l~abor Force 2  -                           Value Added  Per Worker  (19    -      Prices & Exo. Rates)
OUT3SJT  PElt womB       ~~~~In Millions      'kof Total           19,( -(IT         In U.S.Dollars      Percent of AverEge          19   -
OUTPUT  ER WORERYT7,                  aL4T   - 197      19 74    Growth  Rate         19        19          19         1-9        Growth  Rate
Agriculture                      78,052   89,544    32.0        30.6          4.7...
Industry            ~           59,825   68,635    23;.7        23.5          6.7...
Service                        116,183  1,36,191    45.-3       465.9         5.5...
Total                          77r,           =      Y70   70                75-r..                        .
sot applicable         -nili or negligible             LI Including contuto   n   ulcuiiis
not avaLilable       --less than half the              LIModern sector only.
smallest unit shown           jPublic sector savings, including stabilicationf  fund srls   esaotzto   fpbi   et



BALANCE OP PAYMENTSi EXT'ERNAL ASISETANCE AND DEBT
(anoits in millif-  of U.S. doUses aet curret prIces)_.
Avg. Ana
Actual                            Eoti-ated                                        Pojected                                          G .oth Rate.
1973         1974          19(0          19(It          IT 177           9            919W         1991         591                                      IY2 92 17~-l9w
stB54K9C BALANCE OF FAY?MTSO
~~uroc  (intl. SF3)  ~~~~~~366.1               176.2        624.u          650.7          796.9        1,030.14      1,077.3       1,15o.9      1,246.4       1,399.6       1,557.7          12.7
E.port. (i-l. UFl)                           422.0         51i4.6      703.1          792.0          925.5'        1,m61.5      1,192.0       1,360.6       1,315.1      1,639.0       1,729.7          13.6
Feucrc  oc   C-N)                                    u0.14      -7W7          77    -1427       T            -77TI        711r.c        Zj75          --141.7      -2TTh9                         6.
TOntr...co (tot)                              -6.2          -9.6       -11.9          -o4.6;         -25.C           -42.4         -49.5        -56.3         -67.4         -73.2        -15.9          o5.6
1.r-t Th-~enra   mc--                         -3.2         -15.5       -27.2          -31.2          -36.2           -39.9        -45.9          -2.7         -67.6         -69.7        -91.2          14.,7
Wucrk,,o' Bnittnce                           -30.6     4    414         -34.2         -90.4          -31.2           -36.4         -4c.4         - 7.5        -89           -38          -92            i.
Cur,t 1'r-cf-r  (at)                       0119           6.5        12.6           25.3           20.6            30.6         33.6          37.09o7                    4.             66           1.
.accou  Corret Aoencito                  -N.          =**         -.T T          -7779         -17T1           -9.           -lii.        =-T           Z
Bri-ta  in Prnt T-ecot-lt                       7.             .2        24.~           34.5          27.9            43.3          11.0         '77.5'   ~     3 
IfFiclal Capital Oranto     1                3        19~~~~~~~~~~~i.7  30.1        27.4            22.4          12.4         22.4          2.             OD          3.
P.bliroaMs,LT L.                             69.3          50 3         73.0         136.9         0211.1           236.3        234.t         312. 1         4.            8.          398            1.
ai b nte                                  -710         -11.1       -04.9          -20.5,         -26.~           -44.2         -62.1        -73.8         -79.3         -97.4       -i05.6          2n.,2
Otter MALT ban
Dictuseoiete                                347            9.4        213            30.3           .                .
-R.~~Wt.                         -~7.           60.        -1.2          -13.2           ...                           ..
Capital T'ra....clioc    .oi                 -19.3         -39.5       -21.2           -3.4          -5-4.1                                           19(        195         176        1(            1979
Ch-ngo in Ret  osRc- -                          -.2         30.7        -52.5            4.0          -4.4         DE29T ANl DSlT SENVICE
P.blic Sebt Out. & 9206b-sod   274.2          372z.0     731.3       660,5       1,153.3
EBIANT AlLA   NNIET
SOfiefa  Oro,ct  A Drat-liko             41.9          47.3         77.0            ..                            t orot cn Public Doft           11.2       15.1        19.6       29.0           44.2
topaymntc e- Public Debt         14.1        10.8       20.3        24,7          57.6
Public 91&LT I.an.                                                                                                   Octal Public left Service         15.3        35.9       39.9       52.7          101.2,
03RD                             15.~~~~~~~~~~27  34.1      1.0           34.3            ..            Other Dreb  Sorrie  (net) 
TEA                                         74.0           -          21.2           25-.0           T. Otal Deft Serci.c (at)                       .
ace  ecltillat-rc                           16.3           -            0.           oo.6            .           Br-dec cc Exprt &,r3acg(s
G.  -ernet                                  82.5          44.3        99.7           29.4
Suppliors                                      .4           .9          1.l           7.6            ..            Public Deft ServO-                 4.1        5.4         5.6        5.7            7.6
Fi-anial Ec-tiutci-                          -            64.6        21.8           87.3            T. Otal Soft Service 
B-cd.                                                      -            -             -                            TDOfSeODr-t Eneet. T,c..          .
PublIc laces c.r.c.     -             -           -             7~~~~~~0.0
Octal PublIc MALT Easer  TSFTh       Tfl3    ~TW7%              T300    ..                   A-erag  Trc,  of PutlSI  Debt
Aotoal Sobt Octetahding        D.So.      13                       Ite. a-   Prier Yea  DlAS          4.7         5.5        5.3         5.3           5.1
MEXTENIL DERRS                                      Dieterd 5021-                                                      A-oa  iot. so   Print Ye-  DDD    6.o          7.6         5.5        4.6            6.7
enrld Back                                              51o2.409
IDA                                                     107.6                        9.3                           53RD Debt Oct. A Dlebored           28.7       49.7        57.5       71.6          ioCt4
Otter ulicmlater1l                                      176.0                        9.0                                 as    Pucblfo Debt BAD         10.5       13.4       10.8         3.3           6.9
Snve,noeta                                              419.0                       36.3                                as    PhicfebSot Seroiee       0.3        10.3       11.2        10.5          13.3
9-ninS e,s                                              139.2                       12.1
Fnao-ia1 O-tiWttutoc                                    O81.2                       24.4                           IDA Debt Oat. A Dhehursd            34.1        49.9       67.0       93.4          107.6
Bands                                                     -                          -                                 as -     Public Soft IRD        12.4        i3.4t      12.9       10.2             9.3
Putlic Dobte c.o,i                                                                                                     00 9 Publio Soft Serrioc          1.2         .8        1.2         1.1             .
Total Patbio MALT Eebt                                T1 T7                       100.0
Other MALT So tt
Shcrt-trm  Soft (diet. c,Ay)
nct appl.Ioble                                                         e  s fO estlate
oct asaflable                                                               ile -r ,gligible
oct aailSble separa tely                                                   I..lee  then hlOf the
baa Oelcded in   ctal                                                      smallet unit  h-oc



ANNEX II
- 27 -                       Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan or                                                           Amount
Credit                                                      (less cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower    Purpose                       Bank  IDA/l  Undisbursed
Seven Credits and seven Loans have been fully             55.7   84.9         -
disbursed
320-CM    1972  Cameroon    Education II                          9.0        3.08
935-CM    1973  Cameroon    Roads II                      24.0               0.13
983-CM    1974  Cameroon    Livestock                     11.6               0.95
1039-CM   1974  Cameroon    Cocoa                          6.5               0.91
574-CM    1975  Cameroon    Niete Rubber Project                 16.0        0.36
575-CM    1975  Cameroon    DFC - Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                 3.0        1.44
S4-CM     1976  Regifercam  Railways                       2.3               0.37
1245-CM   1976  Cameroon    Education III                 17.0              13.60
1321-CM   1976  NPAC          Second Douala Port          15.0               4.39
672-CM    1976  Cameroon    Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Development                   2.0        0.88
673-CM    1977  Cameroon    Technical Assistance                  4.5        3.83
723-CM    1977  Cameroon    Rural Development Fund                7.0        5.90
1391T-CM  1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM                7.0               5.07
1392-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second SOCAPALM               18.0              13.02
749-CM    1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                          6.5        5.39
1494-CM   1977  Cameroon    Feeder Roads                   4.6               4.60
1508-CM   1977  Cameroon    Second CAMDEV                 15.0              11.38
776-CM    1978  Cameroon    Zapi East Integrated
Agriculture                       8.5        7.88
784-CM    1978  Cameroon    Western Highlands
Rural Development                13.0       12.74
763-CM    1978  Cameroon    Second SEMRY Rice                    14.5        1.29
1512-CM   1978  Cameroon    Second SEMRY Rice             14.5              14.50
1515-CM   1978  Cameroon    Third Highway                 16.5               1.05
926-CM/2  1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                       10.0       10.00
1723-CM 2 1979  Cameroon    Fourth Highway                38.0              38.00
936-CM/3  1979  Cameroon    Fourth Railway                       20.0       20.00
1734-CM/3 1979  Regifercamr  Fourth Railway               27.0              27.00
1753-CM/4 1979  Cameroon    Second Water Supply           21.0              21.00
TOTAL                                   293.70 198.90    228.76
of which has been repaid              10.97   5.33
TOTAL now outstanding                  282.73 193.57
Amount sold                    7.72
of which has been repaid   5.98
TOTAL now held by Bank                    1.74    -
and IDA /1                           280.99 193.57
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                       155.97  72.79    228.76
1/   Prior to exchange adjjustment.
7/   Effective in November 1979.
31   Not yet effective.
4/   Signed in December 1979.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of October 31, 1979)
Investment  Fiscal
Number     Year   Obligor       Type of Business      Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Equity   Total
311-CM      1975    BATA          Shoe Factory            -       0.38     0.38
355-CM      1977    SAFACAM I   Rubber Plantation         -       0.81     0.81
430-CM      1979    SAFACAM II  Rubber Plantation         -       0.41     0.41
452-CM      1979    ALUCAM        Non-ferrous metal    7.00       0.92     7.92
Total gross commitments                                 7.00      2.52     9.52
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               -       0.25     0.25
Total commitments now held by IFC                       7.00      2.27     9.27
Total undisbursed                                       7.00      1.18     8.18
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 320    Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All project-financed institutions are in operation, except for
the adult vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala, which is expected
to open in early 1980. The preinvestment studies have been completed.
Project implementation is about three years behind schedule due to delays
in construction and in the legal establishment of the CENAFOP; the original
Credit closing date of June 30, 1979, has been postponed to June 30, 1982.
Cr. No. 429    Second Highway Project:  US$24 million Credit of
Ln. No. 935    September 26, 1973: Effectiveness Date:  December 20.
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978; and US$24
Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was satis-
factorily completed in December 1976, of the Figuil-Mora section (163 km)
of the Garoua-Mora road in July 1977, and of the Douala-Pont du Nkam road
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
(767 km) in July 1978. The road maintenance study and the reconnaissance
study of timber evacuation roads are completed. Technical assistance is
being provided to the Department of Highways since April 1977 and has been
extended to March 1980. The project suffered from the 1973/74 world-wide
inflation, which nearly doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government
agreed to postpone constructiLon of the Garoua-Figuil road section (95 km). A
supplementary credit of US$15 million was approved in March 1976 to help
alleviate the burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overrun.
Because of currency realignments, there was a cost overrun of US$9 million
which the Government financed in its FY79 budget.
Loan No. 983   Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of May 14,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily, although
delays in implementation as well as unanticipated price increases have led
to cost overruns. The tsetse-fly eradication campaign has cleared about
500,000 of the originally planned total of 800,000 ha and spraying continues.
The credit scheme has exceeded the appraisal target of 150 loans, and the rate
of repayment is good. Slaughterhouse construction although nearing completion
has been halted because of an unexpected conflict between SODEPA and the
contractor over financial claims by the contractor and a breakdown in confi-
dence between the parties. Government is assessing its options, one of which
is to undertake the completion of the facilities itself. If this occurs,
Yaounde could be operating in the first quarter of 1980, but Douala would
be delayed for up to one year. Additional training of slaughterhouse managers
is under consideration. The SODEPA ranches have become the least successful
of the project components, in spite of completed physical development of two
of the ranches, and acceptable progress towards the completion of the third.
Lower than expected technical performance, as well as delayed implementation
and rising cattle prices have now cast serious doubt on the continued finan-
cial viability of these ranches. Alternate means of dealing with SODEPA's
financial situation are being analyzed with Government. A second livestock
project, being prepared for negotiations for January/February 1980, would help
Government expand the successful components of this project.
Loan No. 1039 Cocoa Project: US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date:  February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although farmers responded well to the general increase in producer
price, recommended by the Bank, project physical targets are not met and a
cost overrun is expected. Serious organizational problems have developped and
became worse as a result of the long-delayed nomination of a qualified general
manager for SODECAO. At the Bank's request, a reorganization study was
carried out by independent consultants whose recommendations have now been
accepted by the Bank and the Government.  The Bank has urged Government to
step up its efforts to have a general manager in place as a matter of first
priority in order to speed up SODECAO's reorganization and reorientation of
activities.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 575    Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:  US$3
million Credit of July 1, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The line of credit is almost fully committed and disbursements
have reached 50 percent. A second line of credit is under consideration.
Loan No. S-4   Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard Engineer-
ing Project: US$2.3 million Loan of June 25, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The feasibility study for the new Douala Station and detailed
engineering has been completed. A preliminary design study for the Yaounde
locomotive running shed and rolling stock maintenance facilities has been
completed. The consulting services initially provided under the Second
Railway project have been carried out, but additional technical assistance
will still be needed to implement the recommendations of the consultants,
and is being provided under the Fourth Railway Project. As planned, this
engineering loan is being refinanced under the Fourth Railway Project. Actual
closure will occur as soon as the Fourth Railway Project becomes effective.
Loan No. 1245-T      Third Education Project:  US$17 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The lower secondary technical school in Douala is partly in opera-
tion, pending completion of additional site development works, and contracts
have been awarded for construction of two lower secondary schools and the
institute for agricultural techniques (ITA). The balance of the construction
is held up pending a Government review of measures it plans to take to over-
come cost overruns of 30 percent. As a consequence of delays in issuing bid
documents and in taking decisions to resolve the cost overruns, the project
is about two years behind schedule. Agricultural technician training pro-
grams are underway in temporary facilities, pending completion of construc-
tion of the ITA. There has been limited progress with preinvestment studies
for a future education project. Project implementation has been slowed by
inadequate and late provision of counterpart funds and by changes of project
management.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1321   Second Douala Port Project:  US$15 million loan
Cr. No. 657    of September 24. 1976; Effectiveness Date:  June 15,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981 and US$10
million Crediit of same date: Effectiveness Date:
June 15. 1977: Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well. Proposals to construct a second container berth and to incorporate
facilities at the container berths to handle increasing volumes of roll
on roll off traffic have been accepted by donors. Although latest cost
estimates indicate a higher total cost for the extended project, this has been
covered by pledges of additional financing from some of the other donors
and Government. Due to sound management, and timely and adequate tariff
increases, the Port Authority's financial situation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 672    Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:  US$2
million Credit of February 28, 1977: Effectiveness
Date: August 29. 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The 1978 results show that the yields obtained under medium and
heavy mechanization stay below the financial break-even point.  Double crop-
ping appears impractical while agronomic trials are being continued. There
have been delays in conduct:ing experiments with small farm models with low
mechanization in preparing a settlement scheme for full development of the
Plaine. The experimentation program is being improved, with emphasis on
developing an adequate date base on smallholder rice cultivation. Government
has agreed to contribute an additional US$955,000 to extend the project
to June 1980.
Cr. No. 673    Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1977: Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
After a slow start, the Credit's various components are beginning
to take shape. Recruitment of long-term advisory consultants has progressed
and some improvements in disbursement procedures have been studied and are
contemplated for the next fiscal year. The project's central coordinating
unit in the Ministry of Planning appears to be delegating more responsibility
than before, with the result that some acceleration in project implementation,
particularly in the field of recruitment, has been observed. A rough outline
of the training component has been produced by the Department of Studies and
Projects in the Ministry of Agriculture.



-32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 723    Rural Development Fund Proiect:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4. 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Despite good progress on several components, the Project is starting
slowly due to the large number of sub-projects and following delays in setting
up FSAR, slow delivery of equipment and equipment breakdowns. More progress
is required (i) from FSAR in improving its coordinating, monitoring and cost
control activities, and (ii) from Government in strengthening the participa-
tion of government services and agencies responsible for individual sub-
projects (SEMRY, in particular, has been reminded to expedite implementation
of the bottomland development sub-project). Improvements in the organization
and accounting framework of FONADER, of which FSAR is a part, now underway,
could help to improve FSAR's administrative performance and are being followed
by the Bank.
Ln. No. 1392   Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
Third Window Loan: US$7 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
New plantings are proceeding satisfactorily but the production
potential from earlier plantings is not being achieved due to labor problems,
inadequate maintenance and processing difficulties. In consequence SOCAPALM's
revenues from mature plantings are below expectations. In agreement with
Government appropriate measures have been taken to strengthen the company
including the recruitment of new staff for certain key posts. The present
management team is committed to implementing the Bank's recommendations.
Government recently approved a 5th capital increase. Progress has been
made toward establishing the Coastal Estates Center to provide services to a
group of plantation companies with common interests, including CAMDEV and
HEVECAM (Loan 1508-CM and Credit 574-CM).
Cr. No. 749    Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494   US$6.5 million Loan of December 7. 1977; Effective-
ness Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983.
After a six-month delay in selecting the technical assistance
team, it is now working satisfactorily and the starting up of the project is
gathering speed. The Central Feeder Roads Unit has been established, equip-
ment ordered and local staff recruited and trained. Major field operations
are expected to start at end 1979, more than one year behind schedule.



-33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 763    Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512   of February 1.  1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5
million Loan of February 1. 1978; Effective Date:
April 14. 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and management
is very effective. Contracts have been signed for the main civil works
and engineering services, and orders have been placed for over 90 percent of
the force account equipment. Costs have remained within appraisal estimates
although there may be a shortfall because of currency realignment. The main
civil works have been completed generally on schedule; force account works are
progressing satisfactorily. The resettlement of farmers displaced by the
reservoir has been successfully carried out. The co-donor, Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), has agreed to finance a complementary
program of US$2 million involving support components in project evaluation,
agricultural research, livestock and fisheries development and a reafforesta-
tion program.
Ln. No. 1508   Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1. 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31. 1982.
The Second CAMDEV project started well with land clearing, proceed-
ing on schedule at Kompina and with excellent nursery material available
for the first plantings. All of the key posts have now been filled with
competent personnel acceptable to the Bank.
Ln. No. 1515   Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3. 1978: Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982.
Construction of the Garoua-Figuil road is complete and incorporates
some design changes which, although not entirely justified, have been accepted
by the Bank. The Government hired an economist/statistician who is now to
supervise the road origin-destination survey which the Bank has agreed to
finance under the Project. A second expatriate is now working at the Ministry
of Transport with finance under this project. Because of currency realignments
and design changes, there is an overrun of US$4.9 million (16 percent of the
total project cost) which is being borne by the Government.



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 784    Western Highlands Proiect:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Recruitment by UCCAO of key project staff is progressing satisfac-
torily. Tenders have been called for project vehicles, equipment and
materials. Design and planning of project buildings is going ahead. Satis-
factory operation agreements have been concluded with ONAREST for agricultural
research and with Genie Rural for village water supply and bottomland develop-
ment. A suitable site of some 500 ha for the seed farm has been identified
and steps are being initiated to secure land use rights for UCCAO.  In accor-
dance with the Project and Credit Agreements, Government has deposited working
funds in the Project Advance Account. Overall, initial project activities are
progressing satisfactorily and no special problems require attention at this
point in time.
Cr. No. 776    Zapi East Integrated Rural Development Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17. 1978; Effective-
ness Date: October 4. 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project continues to make progress, although less than expected.
Staff is almost complete at middle management level, and acquiring increasing
experience, with the continued assistance from "Planning Assistance, Inc.".
Vehicles have been procured for all project components. Contracts have been
awarded for the supply and installation of coffee processing machinery. Rapid
inflation in building costs continue to cause delays in the building program.
Zapi's finances and financial management are a potentially serious problem.
Corrective measures, including the use of foreign accounting and auditing
expertise, have been implemented, and this problem, which is affecting the
implementation of various project components, is expected to be resolved by
March 1980.
Cr. No. 926    Fourth Highway Project:  US$10 million Credit of August 23,
Ln. No. 1723   1979; Effectiveness Date:  November 15, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986; and US$38 million Loan of same date; Effec-
tiveness Date: November 15, 1979; Closing Date: June 30. 1986.
Contrary to Bank advice, the Government decided to prequalify
consultants to provide training of maintenance staff. The five firms were
not prequalified until November 1979, and so it is unlikely that the firm
finally chosen will begin work until several months after April 1980, the date
originally planned. One of roads to be rehabilitated under the Project,
Bogu-Guirvidig, which serves the SEMRY II Rice Project, has been studied by
consultants and the Government wishes to construct a new road at five times
the cost anticipated by the Bank for rehabilitation. The matter is under
review. The study of the Douala-Yaound6 is falling further behind and is
unlikely to be completed on schedule. Overall there are therefore prospects
of delays and cost overruns, even at this early stage.



- 35 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND HEVECAM RUBBER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: six months.
(b) Project prepared by the Ministries of Agriculture, and
Economy and Planning, with technical assistance from
SAFACAM.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:
May 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: March 12, 1979
(e) NegotiaLtions completed: November 16, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: April 15, 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   SRecial Conditions
A.   The Government would:
(i)  provide financing to maintain, bring to maturity
anad effectively exploit plantings made under the
three projects required to complete the 15,000
hia estate (para. 46);
(ii) ensure that HEVECAM would maintain liquid assets
at all times sufficient to cover its operating
expenditures for a four-month period (para. 46);
(iii) ensure that HEVECAM would at all times employ a
Technical Manager, an Industrial Manager, and a
Financial and Administrative Manager with qualifi-
cations acceptable to the Association and Bank (para.
50);
(iv) prepare not later than December 1981 a long-term
plan for future perennial crop development in
Cameroon (para. 52);



-36 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(v) prepare, not later than December 1980, a study of the
viability of salvaging marketable timber during
land clearing operation on the HEVECAM concession at
Niete to defray some of the costs (para. 38 (xiii));
(vi) ensure that the estate schools would be operated in
conformity with the regulations governing the public
education system (para. 43);
(vii) ensure that good all weather road communications
between the plantation, Kribi and Douala are available
not later than December 1980 (para. 43);
(viii) ensure that a Credit Administration Agreement,
acceptable to the Bank, is signed between FONADER and
HEVECAM covering responsibilities and financial
administration of the smallholder program (para.
46).
B.   Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)  conclusion of a financing agreement between HEVECAM
and Government satisfactory to the Bank (para. 46);
(ii) effectiveness of the CCCE and CDC loans (para. 46).



M A L I               i                                                             1
C   .JN I G E R                  CI  A Dxsao@M     o
.g        NIGER          /       C      EAD  L  A FIA                                                                           CHA D
L  SUDAN -r   -                             .H
POPULATION,~~~~~               ~E  TANAL TRANSPORATION,CANDPOETAA.i                                                          ,                                              8
272ch0btdnt per.cc,,t, sq*r,sarecced~.  l..                                                                        gl                   s       
UPPRR(1-2                                   1                   tcccc..    0'                                                 3       -s ,afp
VOLTA         201-50                          4c ho tantlv cf c,E
CAE00.Q1-5                                                                           < > ' '   
AriAWIC  ~         ~          /CETALARIA
UNIEDMEPULIOON                    CMEOO
= ~ ~~~~~~~~I Nietecn RubrEtI PoelAe                                         ?\br  2z 
POPULATION RAINFALL TRNPRTATION AND PRJC  ARE
2700-Inohabtats pein., khilmeters,ftgXX 
0,//  ci  cc
-              OA5JA    _-._  ntroIol BoudOie                                                                      .,dgr - W     \t     i         2         .
4                                                                                                                     -X                                 C E NGARON         . L
I-                                     A-/-  Jhob/ ntpe
M                                     E     ng Rbr a OlPalmEs/    C
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROONlR
R0ivers          biono e
5001-s1yes0i (ilmeesqurioee
0   p   1, O                              |12tor 150 10                                                                                             1t I     3
NILOt ETRubeSooePoetAe
~hct~/j ExstingRubbr andGil Pls, Etate
N    I  G    E    R    I  ASacpam   aces.c






IBRD 14374
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON                                                                                                      NM I                                                    JE 1979
Second Hevecom Rubber Project
NIETE RUBBER ESTATE                                                                                                                                                                  ADJAP
PLANTING PROGRAM, 1975-1984
CALENDAR
YEAR  RECTARES
1976    267/
1977     567   F,rst Po,e-t, 4,200 h.                                                                                     ......."/'
17 978  ,0/
1979    2,3Q2 
982i   2,200SeconFid Projc, 9,300 ha
*F-rs5e. sterr1                                                                                                                 to,orrlo oyetot\04),*, ,  _ ZINGU
'YA ect, *bond                                          . .                                       jy 
9            2C20d0 --
Vill~    VOg4 Rages 5t).k}imn  f
N-ery   Hy
Gce-lwi rods
Filoe.   saft haquryr
mA > - I - . S; -- .... . -e's                                                                                                                                   --
A  k                     / 
G   ffi <  ~~~~~~~~~ - -~~~~~~ - 0 = -  -                                                               |             / ~~~~~~~~~~~~CAME ROON SiAPtEKL
IETE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c,ElPE
L              800,,oede~~~~~"Ch,4
RIIJ     -z    t-    --    1    -    LF                     *  rALOMOETErS  0 1  2C? 
s MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOTERS r    i                                             2   Sv.ng * 
.11ES 0  1    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



