RESTRICTED
FiLtE        t                  Report No. P-584
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRES IDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR THE
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 22, 1968






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPI-ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO bENTATION OF TBE PRESIDENT
TO TBE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
TROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO TXE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR THE SHIRE VALIEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Shire
Valley agricultural development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to US $3.7 million to the Republic of Malawi.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     In January 1967, the Government applied for an IDA credit to help
finance a program whose principal objectives were to induce farmers in
the lower Shire Valley (Southern I4alawi) to adopt improved agricultural
practices and to settle others on as yet uncleared land. The immediate
impact of the project submitted would be to increase yields of cotton pro-
duction and some improvement in the production of maize, the local staple
food. The project submission was prepared for the Government by the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program under the auspices of the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP). The project was appraised by an IDA mission in N4ay 1967.
3.     The presence in Wiashington during the second half of November 1967
of the Honorable John Tembo, Minister of Finance, Messrs. K. J. Barnes,
Secretary to the, Treasury, R. J. Dewar, Secretary to the newly created
Ministry of Economic Affairs, R. Katengeza, General lanager of the Farmers
Marketing Board and C.P.R. Nottidge, Chief Agricultural Development Officer
for the purpose of negotiating a proposed credit for the Lilongwe Agricultural
Development Project was used to have preliminary negotiations on the proposed
Shire Valley project. Formal negotiations were completed by the end of
December 1967, when the Government indicated its agreement with the draft
credit documents.
4.     Previous IDA lending in Halawi consisted of a US $490,000 equivalent
highway engineering credit (S2-MAI, signed October 4, 1966) of which $169,000
was undisbursed as of December 31, 1967, and a US $6.3 million equivalent
credit for an education project (102-MAI, signed May h, 1967), which is in the
design stage and for which disbursements are not scheduled until later this
year.
5.     I am submitting this project simultaneously with separate proposals
for a US $11.5 million equivalent highway credit, which includes the proposed
refunding of the $490,000 equivalent engineering credit S2-MAI mentioned
above, and a US $6 million equivalent credit for an agricultural development
project situated near Lilongwe in the Central Region of Malawi. No further
credit propoea1s   are expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors in
the near future; a power project might be next in line, possibly in the
second half of 1968.



6.     There have been no IFC investments in M4alawi.
PART II  DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.     BORROWER:                  Republic of Yalawi
PURPOSE:                   To help finance a 5-year integrated
agricultural development project
designed to increase cotton production
in an area covering 130,000 acres.
AM4OUNT:                   Various currencies equivalent to
US $3.7 million.
AMERTIZATION:              50 years, including a 10-year period of
grace, in semi-annual installments
beginning on April 1, 1978 and ending
on October 1, 2017.
SERVICE CHARGE:            3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.     A report on the proposed project entitled "Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Project" (TO-612a, dated January 5, 1968) is attached.
9.     In order not to lose the considerable momentum recently achieved in
agriculture, the Government is now anxious to expand, with IDA assistance,
some of the more successful improvement schemes begun on a pilot scale with
United Kingdom funds. Encouraging as it may be, recent growth in agricultural
production has been primarily the result of expanded acreage rather than
increased yields. IWith increasing pressure of population there is a limited
possibility of achieving further long-run growth in this way, so that the
Government's program for agricultural development is concentrated on raising
the yields of the existing smallholder crops. In the project area itself
yield take-off depends principally on the introduction of pest control and
improved cultural practices.  The greatly increased extension effort necessary
to achieve these aims will be facilitated to some extent by the recent expan-
sion of facilities for training Nalalwian agricultural staff, but expatriate
services, which the country readily accepts, will continue to be necessary
in the short run. The measures proposed in this project have been tested
among I4alawits cotton growers in a cotton improvement scheme financed by the
United Kingdom Government. The results appear quite promising and have en-
couraged the Government to initiate, in addition to the Shire Valley project,
a similar project in the vicinity of Salima in the Central Region. This
project is being partially financed by a loan from the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany.



10.     The proposed credit consists of the partial financing of a five-
year project, which is designed to increase cotton production in an area
covering about 130,000 acres in the lower Shire Valley.  Production increases
would result partly from the development of nearly 20,000 acres of presently
unused arable land, but to a more significant extent from the adoption by
farmers of improved cultural practices of which the use of sprayers and in-
secticides for pest control are the most important. The necessary techniques
would have to be demonstrated to the farmers by the extension services.
The project would be complemented by an integrated package of infrastructural
improvements (water supply, access roads, markets) and the provision of credit
facilities. The project has been limited to the introduction of essential
in-puts and techliques (pest control) since the present level of agricultural
development in this region of Ihlawi does not at this stage provide an economic
basis for introduction of more complex innovations or the use of fertilizers.
The project will also achieve some improvement in local maize production.
11.     The purchase of sprayers and insecticides by farmers will be facili-
tated by a credit scheme, which will be administered by the Farmers Marketing
Board (F1oB). The FIB is a semi-autonomous public corporation which is charged
with buying and selling of smallholder crops for which it maintains and oper-
ates organized imarkets. Farmers in the project area are obliged to sell
their cotton at these markets which will enable the FIMB to collect farmerst
credit repayments by deducting them from the proceeds of crop sales.
12.     About one fourth of the proposed credit would be directed towards
the financing of extension staff. A massive extension effort and a fairly
high degree of supervision of farmers' practices are essential for successful
project implementation.  Specific provision has been made for in-service
training of local staff to replace gradually the non-aIlawian extension staff
needed initially.
13.     Overall responsibility for the implementation of the project would
be assumed by a newly created Agricultural Development Branch set up within
the Department of Agriculture of the M^inistry of Economc Affairs.  The
Branch is headed by a Chief Agricultural Development Officer recruited from
the Agricultural Development Service (ADS) in Nairobi.
14.     The cost of the project is estinated at US $4.6 million equivalent.
The estimate includes contingencies which allow also for cost variations as
a possible result of the recent devaluation of the Malawi pound.  The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US $2.6 million equivalent or 56%. The
proposed credit would finance about 8O0P of the estimated total cost.  This
would be somewhat below the proportion of external finance that could be
considered justifiable for development projects in 24alawi considering its
-ooverty and performance (see also Part V - The Economy), but would take
into account the Government's recovering, over the five-year period, of a
V           large part of its financial contribution from repayments by farmers on
credits received for the purchase of sprayers and insecticides.



'.14-
15.       The construction of housing and the purchase of sprayers,
insecticides, vehicles and other major goods will be made under contracts
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Imports made
specifically for the project will be exempt from import duties, The
project is expected to be completed by January 1973.
16.       The economic evaluation of the project is based on the addit-
ional productionL mainly of cotton and also of maize directly attributable
to the project MIalawits cotton production is small in terms of the
world market. However, it-is the country's fourth largest earner of
foreign currency after tea, tobacco and groundnuts, For the project area,
it is expected that increased cotton production will contribute to the
economy more than US $0.6 million in foreign exchange in the fifth year
of the project, gradually rising to over US $1e. million in the tenth year.
Maize production is expected to increase by some 35% by the end of the
project; the increase will contribute to improving the nutritional stand-
ards of the populace in this area which is a net food importer. Overall
costs and benefits relating to this project would result in a rate of
return to the economy of about 21%, apart from the equally important
indirect and unquantifiable benefits. Among the latter, the most signif-
icant is the training of local extenision personnel who would be able,
after project implementation, to demonstrate improved agricultural growing
practices in other parts of the country.
PART IV - IEGAL INSTRU1ICNTS AND AUTHORITY
17*       The draft Development Credit Agraement between the Republic
Of M1alai and the Association, and the R;-znmendation of the Committee
prov-lcded for in Article V Section 1(d) of Ohe Articles of Agreement are
being dis..ributed to the Executive Direc-&ors separately. The draft
legal documents follow closely the pattern used in the proposed Lilongwe
Agricultural Development Project.
PART V - TIE ECONOMY
18.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Malawi' (No.AF-68a) was distrib-tted to the Executive Directors on
1Novei,er 22 1967. Brief conrments on the econmy and the- justification
for lending by the Asaociation are contairned in mr report, dated
January 22, 1968, on a proposed development credit for a highway project,



- JR -
PART VI - COIMPLZUICE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
19¢     I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOIENDATION
20a     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
Resolution No. IDA
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Malawi in an
amount equivalent to US $3M700OO.
RESOLVJED:
THIAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the Republic
of Halawi in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million
seven hundred thousand United States dollars (US $3,700,000) to mature on
and prior to October 1, 2017, to bear a service charge at the rate of three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms
and conditions set forth in the form of the Development Credit Agreement
(Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project) between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association, which has been presented to this meeting.
Attachment:                                          George D. Woods
President
Washington; DoC,
Januaxr 22, 1968



