ct-\\* FILE (AJPY
COPY          ~R ESTR ICTE D
Report No. TO-61Za
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 5, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Malawi pound (X)
US$                  V 1O.4167
I;              =   US$2.40
l 1 million     =   US$2.-4 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 lb            ,   0.453 kg
1 sh ton        -   2,000 lb
0.9072 m ton
1 ac            =   0.405 ha



MALAWI
Shire Val4ey Agricultural Develorment Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY
I.    INTRODUCTION ...................,.,..........   1
II. BACKGROUND ..                                             1
Development Program ..                                 2
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                        2
IV.   THE PROJECT ....................      ,      .     ..   4
(A) General Description.                               4
Pest Control and Extension.                        5
Credit and Sprayer Subsidy.                        5
Infrastructure ..............................     6
Improved Market and Storage Facilities.            6
Land Demarcation for Settlement .7
(B) Construction Schedule.                             7
(C) Cost Estimates ..........,                         8
(D)  Financin. .*----------..-----..-------.-------    9
Procurement and Disbursement .....   ..............  10
V.    ORGANIZATIONT AND MANAGEMENT ......   ...................  10
(A) Project Management ........   .....................  11
(B) Training of Malawian Personnel .....   ............  12
(C) Marketing and Credit .......    ....................  12
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME ........  13
Expected Yields .............. .......................  13
Market Prospects ............ ........................  14
Expected Production .........   ........................  14
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .16
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECODv2ThENDATIONS .17
ANNEXES
MAPS
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
which visited IMvalawi in May 1967, composed of M7essrs. Mlanning, Friedgut
(of the Bank) and Bruce (of FAO).



MALAWI
Shire Val1ey AAgricultural Development Project
Table of Contents
(Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES                     Pages
1.   AGRICULTURE                                                1- 7
2.   MA4RKETING AND CREDIT                                      1- 9
3.   PROJECT PERSONNEL
4.   COST ESTIMATES AND EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
5.   ORGANIZATTON CHART
6.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS, FARM BUDGETS AND CASH FLOW



MALAWI
Shire Valley Agri4cultural Development Project
Summary
i.        The Government of Malawi has applied for an IDA credit to help
finance a program to increase agricultural production in the Lower Shire
River Valley.  Malawi's per capita GNP, at about US$>52, is among the lowest
of the Bank's member countries and is accounted for by the predominance of
subsistence agriculture.
ii.       Increased acreage accounted for the greater part of Malawi's
seven percent average annual growth of cotton production during the last
15 years, the average of the last three being about 17,000 tons of seed
cotton. Of this the project area accounted for about 8,000 tons produced
by some 15,000 farm families each having an average of less than six
cropped acres. Maize is the other main crop in the area and is all consumed
by the growers.
iii.      The project provides for the improvement of agricultural
practices, particularly control of cotton pests which are the main reason
for the current low yield of about 350 pounds of seed cotton per acre.
iv.       Project implementation requires a package approach involving
infrastructure, personnel for training Malawrians, and provision of credit
to 4armers for purchase of farm inputs.  Thie project will cost about US$4.6
million ecquivalent with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$2.6
million.
v.        Net cash income of the average farm family of five persons
would increase from US$65 to US$114 by the tenth year. The gross value
of production would increase from US$1.8 to US$4.3 million during this
period.  The average annual net return to the economy should be about
21 percent.
vi.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$3.7 million.



MALAWI
Shire Valley Agricultural Develorment Project
I. INTRODUJCTION
1.01      The Government of Malawi has applied for an IDA credit to help
finance a program whose principal objectives are to induce existing farmers
in the Shire Valley to adopt improved agricultural practices and to settle
others on as yet uncleared land. The immediate impact of the program
proposed will be to increase yields, especially of cotton, ultimately more
than doubling cotton production with a modest increase in area. There will
also be some improvement in production of the staple food maize.
1.02      The project submission was prepared at the request of the Govern-
ment of Malawi, under the auspices of the United Nations Development Program
(Special Fund), by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. A mission consisting
of Messrs. H.L. Manning and I.T. Friedgut (of the Bank) and Mr. R. Bruce
(of FAO) visited Malawi in May 1967 to appraise the Government Project.
This report summarizes the mission's findings.
II. BACKG-ROUND
2.01      Malawi is a small, landlocked country with a land area of
36,000 square miles.  Its current population of about four million is
growing at more than three percent a year and has an average density of
more than 110 per square mile, one of the highest in Africa. More than
90 percent of the population live in traditional villages and derive their
livelihood from agriculture, from which average incomes are considerably
less than the per capita GDP of about US$52 a year.
2.02      The extremely low level of per capita income in Malawi is due
mainly to a heavy dependence on unimproved subsistence agriculture, which
represented about 32 percent of the US$210 million equivalent 1966 GDP.
One of the most encouraging recent economic developments, however, has
been the renewed interest in cash crop production by African smallholders.
Much of the credit for this increased production, shown at Annex 1, can be
ascribed to the efforts of the Department of Agriculture whose extension
services, with the full backing of the Malawi Congress Party, have suc-
ceeded in gaining the confidence and cooperation of the smallholder.
2.03      The Department of Agriculture, which is described in Annex 1, is
responsible for agricultural development, extension and research. It is a
department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is also responsible
for veterinary services, forests and game, geological services, lands and
surveys.
2.o4      It is only since Independence (1964) that the Government has
succeeded in stimulating among the people a spirit of cooperation with the
extension service. With the financial assistance of the United Kingdom, the



Department of Agriculture has embarked on a number of small agricultural
improvement schemes.  At the same tine, the Farmers' MIarketing Board (FMB)
has been rapidly expanding its facilities in an attempt to keep up with the
sudden resurgence in cash crop production, beginning in the early sixties.
Development Program
2.05      In order not to lose the considerable momentum recently achieved
in agriculture, the Government is now anxious to expand, with IDA assistance,
some of the more successful im.provement schemes begun on a pilot scale with
United Kingdom funds. Encouraging as it may be, recent growth has been
primarily the result of expanded acreage rather than increased yields. In
view of the limited possibility of achieving further long-run growth in
this way due to the increasing pressure of population, the Government's
program for agricultural development is concentrated on raising the yields
of the existing smallholder crops. Preconditions for this yield take-off
are the provision of water supplies, introduction of soil conservation,
modern methods of cultivation, construction of markets and improved access.
In the project area itself yield take-off denends principally on the
introduction of pest control and improved cultural practices. The greatly
increased extension effort necessary to achieve these aims will be facil-
itated to some extent by the recent expansion of facilities for training
M4alawian agricultural staff, but expatriate services.  which the country
readily accepts, will continue to be necessary in the short run. The
measures proposed in this project have been tested among Malawi's cotton
growers in a cotton improvement scheme financed by the TJnited Kingdom
Government. The results appear quite promising and have encouraged the
Government to initiate, in addition to the Shire Valley project, a similar
project in the vicinity of Salima in the Central Region (see map). This
project is being partially financed by a loan from the Government of
West Germany.
III.  ThIL PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area is situated in the heart of the main cotton
growing region, the lower Shire Valley in the Southern Region of Malawi,
and is confined to the west bank of the Shire River (see Map 1). Of the
830 square miles, mainly contained in the Chikwawa South Administrative
sub-district, about 200 square miles (about 130,000 acres) have soils
suitable for production of short-term annual arable crops such as cotton
and maize. 1/
3.02      Two broad groups of cultivable land form are recognized, the
uplands and the Rift Valley Floor. The former at an altitude in excess
of 500 feet above sea level, covers more than half the area and is known
as Tomali (or Drift Plain) soil. These soils are of lighter texture and
are less fertile than the Ngabu black cotton soil which makes up the
remainder of the cultivable area. The Tomali soil area is less densely
populated and is covered by open woodland, clearing of which is relatively
1/   The project area is officially described in the Government of Malawi's
General N7otice No. 866 of December 6, 1967.



- 3 -
easy where no attempt is made to remove the larger trees. In addition to
these two groups of cultivable soil there are two uncultivable groups;
shallow acid uplands soil and azonal, poorly drained heavy clay soils
in the flood plains.
3.03      The total area of land suitable for development is distributed
as 69,000 acres of Ngabu soil and 60,000 acres of Tomali soil. Already
some 59,000 acres of the Ngabu area and 27,000 acres of the Tomali area
are cropped, so that much of the new development would be on the less
productive Tomali soils.
3.04      About 25 inches or 90 percent of the average rainfall occurs
during the period November through April.  This is satisfactory for annual
crops but, because of the long, dry season from May through October, double
cropping or perennial crops such as sugar cane, require supplementary
irrigation.  The relatively high monthly mean maximiurm and minimum temper-
atures which favor cotton are not conduc-ve to optimum seed production
of maize, whose yields are consequently low.
3.05      Communications within the project area are still rudimentary,
being confined to a single gravel-surfaced road, passable during most
periods of the year, which connects Chikwawa with Chiromo. There are a
number of secondary roads but movement over these during the rainy season
is restricted to four-wheel drive vehicles.
-3.6      Tne water supply is extremely poor.  During the wet season small
supplies can be found in the shallow holes dug in sandy river beds, but
these are transitory and hazardous to health. These meager supplies are
supplemented by 82 boreholes with modest output and two 40-foot deep wells.
3.07      The 1965 census indicated that there were about 78,000 people
in the area. 1/ Of these, five percent live in rural centers or on the
nearby Sucoma Sugar Estate. Siqallholder population is therefore of the
order of 75,000, which, with an average of five per household, represents
some 15,000 families. These are distributed as 7,500 in the more densely
populated Ngabu area, 4,1500 in the Tomali area and 3,000 in the flood
plains and upland area. The typical farm around Ngabu is about 71-2 acres,
having 4½< under cotton and 3 under maize.  Statistical data are insuffi-
cient to estimate the size of a typical farm on Tomali soils.
3.08      No recognizable rotation pattern is followed and preparation of
land for cultivation is often limited to digging shallow holes just before
the onset of the rains. Only the more progressive farmers hoe their
gardens and employ ridges for water conservation. Timeliness of planting
and standards of weeding leave consic3erable room for improvement.
1/   Survey of Agricultural Smallholdings.  Southern Region National
Statistics Office, Zomba, 1965.



- 4 -
3.09      As in the remainder of the country, the BIB has monopoly rights
in the purchase of African grown crops (see Annex 2). In the project area
the Board limits its crop purcnases to cotton.  Cotton purchased at its
eight permanent and three temporary markets is transported to the central
ginnery at Bangula near Chiromo, where all seed cotton produced in Malawi
is ginned by the British Cotton Ginning Association (BCGA) on behalf of
the R4B. The new extension to the ginnery has raised output capacity from
about 200 to over 400 bales of lint per day and this will be sufficient to
process expected increased production of the country. However, storage
space for cotton products and for maize is inadequate.
3.10      The Southern Region is served by a government research station at
Makanga near the Bangula Ginnery. Tne experimental work is confined mainly
to cotton and will shortly be transferred to Ngabu which is located within
and is more representative of the project area. This station will also
provide training facilities for extension personnel.
3.11      A pilot program on plots totalling about 1000 acres in the Southern
Region, as part of the country-wide cotton improvement scheme supported by
the United Kingdom Government, has been in operation for some years.  Thus
far 200 farmers have been provided with subsidized spraying eauipment, the
cost of insecticides being deducted from the value of crop produce.
IV. THE PROJECT
(A) General Description
4.0l      The project is the implementation over five years of an integrated
program of measures necessary to bring about an increase in agricultural
outpult and income in the immediate future on about 130,000 acres. The
measures include capital investments in access roads, village water
supplies, marketing facilities, buildings and equipment, and recurrent
expenditures on development promoting services.  The measures are
described below:
(a)  Provision of credit facilities to induce farmers to purchase
sprayers and insecticides for the control of cotton pests.
(b)  Establishment of an adequate extension service to insure
the dissemination of required technical knowledge leading
to improved cultural practices and pest control.
(c) Provision of 156 working boreholes to improve the supply
of potable water for domestic supply as well as for
spraying requirements.
(d)  Construction of 160 miles of crop extraction roads and
improvement of 24 miles of existing roads.



- 5 -
(e) Construction of seven new permanent produce markets,
including the improvement. of facilities at three
temporary marhets.
(f)  Demarcation of plots in nearly 20,000 acres of arable
land for settlement of about 4,000 additional families.
4.02      The project has been limited to the introduction of essential
inputs and techniques since the present level of agricultural development
in this region of Malawi does not provide a basis for introduction of
more complex innovations.
Pest Control and Extension
4.03      Growing conditions which, as already noted, favor plant growth,
also suit a wide range of insect pests, especially on cotton. Because of
the range of pests, a complicated schedule of spraying operations is neces-
sary using different formulations for pest successions. It demands a massive
extension effort and a fairly high degree of supervision.  Furthermore, the
efficacy of the insect pest control depends on the earliest possible recog-
nition of these pests.  These requirements are clearly beyond the scope of
untrained farmers. Conseauently an unusually high density of trained exten-
sion personnel is required initially (see Arnnex 3). As both the farmers and
the demonstrators become more experienced, the ratio will broaden from one
demonstrator to ten farmers to as many as one to thirty. Demonstrators must
in turn be given adequate training and supervision, requiring one field
assistant for every ten demonstrators.  The field assistants will receive
their instructions from extension supervisors of the professional officer
grade. At present in the Southern Region there is available only one
Malawian with the necessary qualifications. The cost of the necessary
extension staff, including housing, vehicles and equipment is included in
the project cost estimates.
Credit and Sprayer Subsidy
4.04      Under current practices farmers have virtually no out-of-pocket
production expenses. At market prices even those convinced of the merits of
pest control would need the equivalent of US$87 to commence operation on a
7½ acre farm.  This sum is roughly equal to the entire annual income from a
farm of this size. (See Annex 6 page 3). In order to achieve and maintain
the production increases envisaged under the project, sprayers and insecticides
must be made available, at prices and under conditions of purchase, which will
be an incentive for their use. The pro4ect will therefore continue the
present subsidy on sprayers offered by the government and also set up a
credit fund for their purchase. The FM!B will handle disbursements and col-
lections as agents for the project. (A detailed description of the proposed
credit scheme is given in para 5.11 and Annex 2). Provision is made in the
cost estimates for setting up and staffing the credit fund and the Mission
is convinced that the FMB is capable of fulfilling its function as agent.



- 6 -
4.05      At present, sprayers purchased by cotton growers are subsidized
by the government at 40 percent of the cost.  The cost of the subsidy will
be included in project costs and will apply only to the purchase of the
first sprayer by any one farmer. The subsidy will be abolished at the end
of the fifth year.
4.o6      Both the subsidy and the credit scheme are designed to assist
the extension service in educating the farmer to anpreciate the considerable
benefits which can be realized from adorting pest control.  Once this is
achieved, it is expected that the subsidy will no longer be necessary
and that sufficient demand will have been built up to make the continued
distribution of sprayers and chemicals on credit fully self-financing.
Infrastructure
4.07      Any further development of cultivable land and establishment
of new markets is constrained by lack of water supplies and poor access
roads. A large proportion of the total project cost is accounted for
by the provision of 156 working boreholes, operated by hand pump, con-
struction of 160 miles of new crop extraction roads and improvement of
24 miles of existing roads. It is estimated that of the attempted drill-
ings roughly one hole in six will be dry, hence it will be necessary to
drill about 182 boreholes to supply the necessary working ones. Work on
boreholes will be either contracted out to private companies or executed
by the Water Development Department. Roads will be constructed by the
Ministry of Works. This infrastructure accounts for close to 25 percent
of project cost and is indicative of the backward state of the project
area.
Improved Market and Storage Facilities
4.08      As noted in paragraph 3.09, the FIB presently operates eight
permanent markets in the project area, with the development of new crop
extraction roads, it will become necessary also to relocate and upgrade
the three existing temporary marlkets and to construct four new permanent
markets. This will establish a series of focal points for extension and
credit work and distribution of seed and other farming requisites. 1/ In
all, fifteen permanent markets will be required to serve the entire project
area, or one market to approximately every 9,000 acres. In addition, in
order to cope with the proJected increase in production in the area, the
.viB will need additional bulk storage capacity at Bangula.  Provision has
been made in the prolect cost estimates for building and equipping these
additional marketing and storage facilities. The cost of the additional
staff required will be met by the F'B out of the increased marketing
revenues resulting from the project.  The mission is convinced that the
FMB is capable of carrying out its part of the project including the
construction and operation of the new marketing and storage facilities.
1/   For a description of temporary and permanent markets see Annex 2.



- 7-
Land Demarcation for Settlement
4.09      Within the five years of the project the government intends
to survey and mark out areas of close to 20,000 acres of presently unused
land. The new farms will serve to settle some 4,000 new families resulting
from net immigration and natural population increase. An allocation com-
mittee under the chairmanship of a local leader will be set up to select
settlers. The actions directly related to the project involve the employ-
ment of two survey teams. "lost of the clearing of bush and scrub on the
farmlands will be done by hand by the farmers themselves. The two teams
will demarcate between 3,500 and 4,000 acres per year. Half of the 20,000
acres cleared in the five year period of the project will probably be re-
quired for food crop production and, apart from fallow, the balance will
grow cotton.
4.10      The present average cropped area per farm is about 5.6 acres.
This does not include a fallow area for which no accurate data are available.
This area permits almost three acres each of maize, which is the favored
cereal crop, and cotton. During the development period of five years and
indeed over the succeeding five years, the rate of area expansion and the
rate of population increase will not differ materially.  By year 11 the
maximum developed area will have reached 126,000 acres, the remaining 4000
acres being a small area of fallow.  At an average of 5.6 cropped acres
per farm family, this will support about 22,900 families.
(B) Construction Schedule
4.11      Phasing of project expenditures over the five year construction
period can be seen from Annex 4, page 2.  The physical works will be spread
relatively evenly over the period. Roughly one fifth of the boreholes will
be drilled each year and road construction and improvement will be completed
by the end of the third year. The new storage facilities at Bangula will be
constructed in the first year of the project, as will be two of the seven
additional permanent markets. The remaining markets will be constructed as
needed, probably at a rate of two a year in the second and third years of
the project and one in the fourth year. Staff housing construction accounts
for a large portion of construction costs in the first year of the project.
More than half of the total expenditure on staff housing will be spent in
that year.  This is due to the fact that at present few of the extension
officers working in the Southern Region actually live there and the mission
believes that a major factor in the success of the proiect will be the main-
tenance of close day to day contact between project personnel and the farmers
in the project area. Construction of roughly f54,000 worth of housing in
each of the second and third years as additional personnel are needed will
complete the requirements.



(C) Cost Estimates
4.12      Total costs of the oroject are estimated at E1.93 million
(US$14.6 million equivalent) including contingencies which average about
14 percent. The following table gives a summary breakdown by major type
of expenditure (for details see Annex 4).
Estimated Pro,ject Costs
Total   Local Currency   Foreign Exchange
…     - -   _ - - - M  '000      -
Capital costs 1/                      977           438                539
Insecticides and sprayers             4614           44               420
Recurrent costs (salaries,
supplies, fuel, etc.)              1486           361               125
Total                1927 2/        843              l084
1/   Construction, vehicles, equipMent, public works.
2/   Includes contingency.
4.13      The estimated foreign exchange component of the project is about
11,084,000 (US$2.6 million), or some 56 percent of total project cost.
4.14      Cost estimates for capital items are based on actual cost for
standard types of houses, offices, vehicles, equipment, etc., supplied by
the Ministry of Works. The estimated cost of constructing marketing and
storage facilities is based on actual costs of similar structures erected
by FMB.  Recurrent costs are based on present goverrrment pay scales and
allowances and actual costs for road and borehole maintenance and operation
of vehicles. The mission considers these estimates to be realistic. Costs
of imported items are exclusive of all import duties; salaries are net of
income taxes and housing rent.
4.15      A functional breakdow,n of the above estimated costs shows the
following: 1/
L' 000's
a)   Pest control (sprayers and insecticides
and water tanks)                                 456 2/
b)   Extension service                                  701
c)   Water supply                                      164
d)   Road construction and inrDroverient               1514
e)   Markets and storage facilities                    163
f)   Land demarcation                                   18)
Sub-total                                 1,656
Contingency                                  271
Total project costs                        1,927
1/   All figures rounded.
2/   Including cost for sprayer subsidy of 552,640.



-9-
(D) Financing
4.16      The table below details the sources of finance for the estimated
total cost of the proœect:
f Million
Proposed IDA credit                         1.54
Local contribuation (Government
and farmers)                               0.39
Total                                       1.93
The IDA credit of f 1.5 million will finance 80 percent of the
total project cost of 11.9 million (UStJ4.6 million equivalent). While the
latest Bank economic report on Malawi 1/ recommends that external assistance
cover 85 percent of project costs, the proposed IDA credit will cover a
somewhat smaller percentage - since a large proportion of the local contribu-
tion will be recovered by the Goveriment from farmers during the project
period. The overall financing of the prolect includes the setting up of a
credit fund, under the Department of Agriculture, to enable farmers to pur-
chase on credit, sprayers and insecticides costing an estimated total of
P456,000 over the five-year period. Loans for sprayers are repayable over
three years, i.e. about the sprayer's useful life, and those for insecti-
cides are repayable annually after the harvest of the crop for which they
were purchased. Farmers' pamnents during the project period, based on
income projections under average conditions, are estimated to reach f275,000,
However, in a poor year, and especially after a succession of partial crop
failures, farmers' debt payments could be deferred.  In cases such as this
the Government will undertake to provide the money required to supplement
the credit fund as necessarv. In such an event the GoverrLment's share of
the local contribution to the prolect would increase.
4.17      At present, other than a poll tax, no tax revenue is obtained
directly from the smallholder sector, although large development expenditures
and an increasing amount of longer-run recurrent expenditures are now being
undertaken for its benrefit.  In accordance with an IMF fiscal mission the
Government is considering the introduction of a cess on crops marketed by
the  14B.  A cess of five percent of FTAB selling prices would generate
additional revenue amounting to about E85,000 a year at full production
of the project.  This woulld largely offset the continuing Government ex-
penditures on maintenance of infrastructure in the project area, and on
the extension services throughout the entire Southern Region (see para 5.08
and 7.03).
1/   Report, AF-68a, "Current Econromic Position and Prospects of Malawi,"
dated November 20, 1967.



- 10 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.18      All procuremients of goods and housing contracts will be subject
to international compet4tive bidding e:.cept for individual tenders of less
than US$25,000 each for goods or US950,000 each for houses.  Tenders for
lesser amounts will be subject to regular government tendering procedures,
which ensure a satisfactory degree of competition, both locally through
suppliers' agents and through the government agents in London.
4.19      Withdrawals froms the Credit Account will cover, against documents,
100 percent of the cif costs of identifiable imported goods and services
required for the prolect and, against certified statements of expenditure,
an agreed percentage of other project costs. Withdrawals will not exceed
US$3.7 million equivalent; undisbursed amount will be available for can-
cellation. In the event that expenditures exceed the present estimated
project costs of $4.6 million, such excess will be met by the Government.
4.20      Government will lend some US$450,000 of the credit to the FIB to
finance costs of market improvements and construction of storage facilities
at Bangula. The loan will be for 20 years, including five years grace,
at 61½ percent interest.  For this purpose the FMB shall enter into a sub-
sidiary loan agreement with the Government.
4.21      Government will establish and maintain appropriate accounts for
the project, which will be audited annually by the Auditor General. Re-
sponsibility for the loan accounts of individual farmers will be delegated
to the FINB.
V.  ORGANI7ATION AND MA1NAGBMEYT
5.01      Within the Department of Agriculture a new branch- the Agricultural
Development Branch, will be responsible for the implementation not only of
the Lower Shire Valley Proiect but also of the large cotton improvement
scheme centered at Saliima and the Lilongwe Protect for which an IDA Credit
has been requested. The Agricultural Development Branch will be headed by
a Chief Agricultural Development Officer, already recruited from the ADS 1/,
who will report to the Corm<missioner for Agriculture. Coordination with other
departments and ministries will be through the Permanent Secretary to the
Minister of Economic Affairs, who is responsible for all matters of funda-
mental policy.
1/   Agricultural Development Service - an organization established and
administered by the Bank, based in Nairobi, whose purpose is to provide
management services for development projects in Africa.



- 11 -
(A) Project Management
5.02      A project organization (see Annex 5) will be set up under the
Agricultural Development Branch, headed by a Project Manager who will be
responsible to the Chief Agricultural Development Officer but will work
in close liaison with the Regional Agricultural Officer and with other
regional department heads in the Southern Region. The Project Manager
will have full responsibility for the execution of the Proiect and for
the accounting of all finances and stores connected with the Project.
5.03      The Project Manager will be assisted by six professional officers,
all directly responsible to him.
The categories and duties of these will be:
(a) Extension Officers. Two will be appointed and their
responsibility will cover agricultural extension, the
use of credit, prenaration of extension aids and in-
service training of Malawian personnel.
(b)  Credit/Marketing Officer.  One appointment only is required,
and his responsibility will include liaison with the FM4B
Plarket Supervisor to advise the Project M4anagement on conduct
of credit operations, to ensure timely delivery of farm
inputs as well as ensure the supply of maize wqhen in short
sUpply and to assist in purchasing arrangements.  During his
three-year tenure he will provide in-service training for
his Malawian understudies.
(c) Training Officer. This officer will be responsible for the
training of Malavian demonstrator personnel in the proper
use of farm inputs including insecticides and such culti-
vation practices as are recommended by the Project Manage-
ment.
(d) Field Experimental Officer. His primary duties will be
to determine the best farm management methods as well as
to test research findings in practice.
(e)  Administrative Officer.  His main tasks will be to assist
the Project Manager in administering the Project at head-
quarters and in the field and in providing liaison between
the regional agricultural office in Blantyre and project
personnel.
5.o4      The Project Manager and his staff will live in the project area,
thus ensuring the closest possible contact with the farmers and their
problems (see para 4.11).



- 12 -
(B)  Training of Malawian Personnel
5.05      In order to create a cadre of Malawian staff with development
experience to provide continuity in management in this and other develop-
ment schemes, provision has been made for the training of qualified
Malawians.  During the five years of the project period, the expatriates
will be replaced as Malawian understudies acquire the necessary competence.
For the purpose, two categories of trained Malawians must be recruited
and/or trained. The first consists of seven professional officers trained
at the Bunda Agricultural College.  These will be added to the Malawian
professional officer now in the area. A second, but less highly qualified
group of Field Assistants will receive the shorter training of the Colby
School. The first nine should be ready to take up their duties with the
initiation of the Proiect; by the fifth year 15 will be required.  Total
numbers required will depend on their suitability and the use they make
of in-service training.
5.06      The training officer will be responsible for training the third
group, consisting of demonstrators whose function is described in para 4.03,
and who will establish direct contact with the farmers. Primary school-
leavers in the district shall provide an adequate source for the 50 re-
quired in the first year.  Their numbers will increase to 135 by the
fifth year.
5.07      A foreman mechanic to service vehicles and assist farmers with
maintenance of spraying equi--pment will have a small group of assistants,
all receivingr in-service training.
5.o8      Supply of the i'Ialawian personnel in the above categories may be
difficult at the cormmencement of the project, but it is anticipated that
later requirements will be met.  Expatriate staff will be gradually with-
drawn from the project beginning in the third year.  At the end of the
eighth year the area will revert to a normal level of staffing and the
Malawian staff who will be no longer needed will be transferred to other
areas within the Southern Region (see para 7.03).
(C) Marketing and Credit
5.09      As noted previously, the FFMB (described in detail in Annex 2)
will supply all production in-puts r,equired b,y farmers in the Project area
and will also provide the market outlet for cash crops.  It will be used
as the channel for credit supply and for the collection of due repayments.
Virtually all financial transactions affeCting the farmers will, therefore,
effectively' be confined to one organization, greatly simplifying the
administration ard a2counting of the credit fund and improving the
security of the lending.
5.10      Cotton presently produced in the region is transported to the
BCGA ginnery at Bangula for processing.  Storage space there is insufficient
to cope adequately even with the e,;isting level of crop production and must
be extended by the FMSB (see para 4.20).  When not actually required for
cotton it will be available for storage of maize.



- 13 -
5.11      Credit will be made aveilable through the FMB as described in
Annex 2. The unit price of sprayers now in use was E25 cif Limbe. Govern-
ment presently offers a E15 subsidy. As a result of devaluation, costs are
likely to increase to f29. The cash price to farmers should therefore in-
crease to I12. However, farmers purchasing on credit will be required to
make an initial down payment of E3 and two subsequent annual payments of
E6 each.  The E3 payment over and above the cash cost to farmers covers
interest and bad debts. Modest as the farmer's contribution is, it
represents a very significant proportion of his present cash income.
5.12      Unsubsidized insecticides are available at a cost of E5.25 for
one-acre packs.  On credit these are supplied at L5.5 repayable at the time
of subsequent harvest. All credit transactions and repayments will be re-
corded on each grower's card and the balance will be carried forward from
year to year. The credit fund mentioned in para 4.04 will be set up to
provide the necessary credit facilities for these inputs.  The FMB will
be reimbursed at cost for managing the credit program.
VI. PRODUCTION, MAR,KET PROSPECTS AND FARM IAICOME
Expected Yields
6.01      The necessary improvements in cultural practices are known to
the few progressive farmers in the area who have participated in the
United Kingdom assistance scheme (see para 3.11).  There is conclusive
evidence that cotton yields can be greatly increased from the present
low level of about 350 pounds of seed cotton per acre.  On the KNgabu
soils the proper usage of insecticides gives yields in excess of 1,000
pounds per acre and yields on the less fertile Tomali soils exceed 900
pounds.  Such yields, however, demand a considerable effort by the grower.
Farmers practicing regular spraying should be able to obtain 900 pounds
per acre of seed cotton initially, increasing this with experience to
1,000 pounds by the fifth year. Modest increases are also expected to
follow the introduction of such elementary cultivation oractices as
earlier land nreparation, row planting, proper weeding and timeliness
of planting. While pest control is vital, the application of these
principles without pest control still gives yields which for the project
are estimated at a level of 500 pounds per acre.
6.02      The same cultural practices are expected to improve cereal
yields but a more substantial increase will follow the introduction of
a better adapted strain of maize.  Yields should rise from 400 pounds of
grain per acre from current strains to 700 with the improved one. This
will still be much below the average yields of areas more suited to maize
production in the country and the project area will remain a net importer.



- 14 -
Market Prospects
6.03      The American upland, type of cotton known as Albar 637, produced
in Malawi yields a good medium staple which at present is well received on
a specialized market with reasonable growth prospects, and commands a
premium over the wide range of other 1-1/16 inch cotton available. This
specific length of staple produced in Malawi has fared relatively better
on the world market in recent years than have the longer or shorter vari-
eties. The value of lint and seed in a short ton of Malawian seed cotton
ranged from E6l.3 to U72.7 between 1957 and 1965. The overall average was
E65.6 per short ton. The mission has assumed an initial marketable sale
value since devaluation (for lint and seed) of f77.5 per ton of seed cotton.l/
For projections of future value of production from the project it was conser-
vatively assumed that the price of lint will decline at a rate of one percent
annually. It was also assumed that application of insecticides will increase
the proportion of grade A lint from 84 to 90 percent during the first six
years, after which it should remain constant at that level.
Expected Production
6.o4      The number of spraying farmers will increase progressively from
200 at present to 4,000 by the fifth year. This will represent a consider-
able achievement by the proposed extension service. In practical terms it
will mean an increase of more than 20 percent in area under cotton, coupled
with a 60 percent rise in average yields (see Annex 6 page 1). The result
should be a growth of production from 8,500 to 17,000 short tons of seed
cotton in five years.  It is also to be expected that a demonstration effect
will eventually cause a majority of farmers to adopt, if not spraying, at
least improved growing practices.  Therefore, at full development at least
55,000 acres of cotton should be improved and sprayed. For maize it is
assumed that the total 61,000 acres available for this crop will be sown
with an improved strain and gromn under imnproveO. techniques after a ten
year development period.
6.05      A projection of value of production increases for reference years
from both cotton and maize is surmarized below. Mlaize is taken at a constant
price of f10.5 2/ per short ton and cotton is based on an expected price
decline of lint at 1 percent per annum (see also Annexes 1 and 6).
1/   For detailed assumptions relating to this estimate, see Annex 1, page 7.
2/   The price of maize was based on an initial cost of E9.5 per short ton
which is the Fl;B purchase price at its markets. An extra cost of El
has been assumed to cover handling, storage losses and transport costs
to move it to the Southern Region. In the farm budgets in Annex 6 a
price of fl1.5 per ton has been assumed. This represents the substitu-
tion value for the farmer of maize which he produces himself.  The
suggested price of maize sold by FMB at its markets in the Southern
Region is also 11.5 per short ton.



- 15 -
Gross Value of Production
Year
0         5           10       20
-- …_ - - -  '000 s -
Cotton                   657       1,248       1,569    1,901
Maize (on-farm
consumption only)        85         129         215       224
Total                    742       1,377       1,784    2,125
By year 10 average cotton yields in the area would increase almost twofold
while seed cotton production would almost treble.
6.06      A summary of projected far,> budgets for hypothetical small,
medium and large size farms in the project area is given at Annex 6.
Farmers who do not use insecticides, on unimproved farms, have no out-of
-pocket production costs except where farm size deMands employment of hired
labor. Seed is distributed free of charge by the FMB and only primitive tools
are used in cultivation.  WiTiesuread incidence of cotton pests limits yields
to lowT levels. Introduction of pest control and a proper planting schedule
would require an initial investment in a sprayer and in insecticides.  Such
investments more than double cotton yields in three years out of four. Even
the lower yields in a poor year would provide a net income justifying this
expenditure (see farm budgets). In monetary terms there is no doubt that
pest control can more than double income from cotton.
6.07      Improverent of maize cuitural practices and the introduction of
improved seed into the area would, by conservative estimates, increase
the locally produced supply of this sta-ple food crop by some 35 percent by
the end of the proœect (see Annex 1 page 6).
6.o8      Based on an average family of five persons, net income (in cash
and kind) per person 1/ would rise as follows:
Farm Size (acres)                    5.0       7.5        10.0
Net income per person:
Without improvements (f)        5.4      10.2        15.1
W,ith improvements (E)          9.5      19.4        26.7
1/   Net of unsubsidized sprayers and insecticide costs.  For per farm
incomes see farm budgets in Annex 6.



- 16 -
6.og      Of equal importance are improvements which can be expected in
the level of nutrition and general health due to an improved supply of
maize and an increased number of boreholes supplying uncontaminated potable
water.
VII.  BEINEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Cotton is the fourth largest earner of foreign currency in
Malawi.  Most of the crop is exported and a portion is utilized by a
newly erected local textile mill whose products replace previously im-
ported goods. Total sale value of cotton 1/ from the project area will
increase from about EO.6 million at the beginning of the project to more
than E1.6 million by the tenth year. Increased production due to the
project alone is expected to contribute to the economy more than E260,ooo
in foreign exchange in the fifth year of the project, gradually rising to
over 420,a00° in year ten. These figures are net of foreign exchange
costs of on-farm inputs and all ginning and processing costs.  This increase
in production value steTrs from increases both in area planted and yield per
acre as well as from an improvement in the ratio of grade A to grade B
cotton.
7.02      The evaluation of the project is based on the additional production
directly attributable to the Project after allowing for a natural increase
of three percent per year in value of production, were the Project not under-
taken.  (Malawi's growth in cotton production has been due aLmost entirely
to acreage expansion which, in the project area is now projected at about
three percent per annum.) Costs of infrastructure and its maintenance,
additional market and storage fecilities and continuing costs of maintaining
the extension service needed to implement the Project, have been included
in calculating the economic rate of return.  Net benefits were calculated
after allowing for on-farm operating costs, 2/ value of the free planting
seed (see para 6.06), ginning and processing expenses, transporation costs
and FIM7B operating expenses. Over its useful life of 25 years, the project
will yield a rate of return of about 21 percent to the economy of Malawi.
7.03      Of equal importance are the many indirect and unquantifiable
benefits resulting from, the investment. These include the training of a
large number of extension personnel wfho wrill be able to aid other farmers
in Malawi in improving their growting practices, and furtlhering the trans-
formation of the producers in the project area from subsistence to cash
oriented farmers. Benefits due to improved nutrition and an increased
supply of uncontaminated potable water should also be considered as major
contributions to the economy.
l/   Including value of cotton seed.  Allowance bas been made for declining
world prices at the rate of one percent per year (see Annex 1).
2/   Familyr labor was valued at zero; hired labor at the official minimum
wage level.



- 17 -
VIII.  CONCLUSIOTIS AND RECO1MENDATIONS
8.01      At present Malawi has one of the lowest per capita incomes of any
member country of the World Bank Group. The Project is intended to help
improve the economic well being of the people of Malawi while increasing
the participation of farmers in the benefits of a cash economy. In addition
to the satisfactory rate of return of 21 percent, the Project would effect
improvements in the nutritional standards of the populace through the pro-
vision of increased maize supplies. Modest as this supply will be, it
should increase the labor productivity of farmers who at present suffer
from malnutrition at certain times of the year. It would also help combat
disease by making available adequate water of potable quality tihus reducing
prevalence of diseases such as amoebic dysentery and schistosomiasis. Equal-
ly important would be the Project's contribution to the foreign exchange
earnings of Malawi. This would reach over f400,000 by the tenth year.
8.02      The Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project is technically
sound and well justified from an economic viewpoint. It is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$3.7 million.
8.03      Among others, assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) The FMB will undertake in a written agreement with the
Government to carry out all aspects of the project which
pertain to it (para 4.08 and 4.20).
(b) Appointment to the post of Project Manager will be
subject to prior approval by the Association (para 5.02).



ANNEX 1
Page 1
AG?RICULTURE
Production
African smallholder crop production has been subject to many
vicissitudes, none more so than cotton. Estate production of cotton
virtually ceased in 1961 and the Southern Region continues to be the
most important cotton-producing region, supplying in latter years over
90 percent of the country's output. Renewed grower interest in the
Central Region is reflected in the production of more than 2,000 short
tons in 1965 and 1966 for the first time since 1938, compared with about
20,000 short tons for the Southern Region in 1965. Crop production for
the more important African-grown crops over the past 15 years is shown
at Table 1.
The results of a campaign for increased agricultural production
are illustrated by the average annual rates of growth of 15 percent for
cash sales of groundnuts and about seven percent for cotton over a fifteen
year period, this in spite of a decline between 1952 and 195r,. Indeed,
except for cotton and tobacco, whose production is intentionally restricted,
maize and groundnut production exceeded all previous records.
Much of the credit for these achievements, which are based
almost totally on area expansion rather than yield improvement, can be
ascribed to the nationwide effort and to the extension work of the
Department of Agriculture. At this stage in time, however, increasing
population pressure and shortage of land demand that an effort must
be made to introduce improved methods and more intensive application
of inputs which will increase yields and destroy pests.
In the particular case of cotton, some success has been achieved
from the enforcement of a close season, under which remnants of cotton plants
must be removed from thne field by a given date, introduced in the late 1950's.
This has reduced the otherwise devastating effects of cotton pests which
earlier threatened the very existence of the industry. Important as this
control measure has been, it still falls far short of requirements and more
positive control measures are the major requirement for raising cotton
yields above their current low level. In recognition of this, a United
Kingdom supported scheme for supplring subsidized sprayers and insecticides
has been in operation for some years.
Department of Agriculture
The Derartment of Agriculture, within the Mirnistry of Economic
Affairs, is organized on a regional basis, each of the Regional Agricul-
tural Officers of the North, Central and South having a marked degree of
autonomy but subject to the Conmissioner for Agriculture in respect of
national policy. A Chief Research Officer resident in Zomba, directs
the research policy of ten specialist officers on the 1,000 acre major
research station at Chitedze in the Central Region. The work tends to



ANNEX 1
Page 2
be concentrated on breeding and fertilizer studies on maize and tobacco
with investigation on groundnuts under the control of the staff of the
Agricultural Research Council of' Central Africa. Cotton work is carried
out at Makanga near Chiromo (see map). The Cotton Pests Research Scheme
undertakes studies on this important work which is shortly to be trans-
ferred to Ngabu in the center of the project area.
A Development branch of the Department has been created with
headquarters in Lilongwe. The Chief Agricultural Development Officer will
assume responsibility for all development work and this branch will under-
take management of all new projects until they are well enough established
to require no more than the normal extension services of the regional
organization.
Extension
Until recently the major extension effort was concentrated on
the most receptive farmers - "the master farmer" -, demonstration plot
techniques, farmers' clubs with restricted membershin, and short training
courses. The broader approach now employed makes use of mass participation
meetings, demonstrations on farmers' own plots, self-help and voluntary
work through ad hoc village committees. These changes and the favorable
political climate, have provided the necessary contact between farmers and
the Department of Agriculture to ensure a more widespread acceptance of
desirable innovations.
Climate
Although the relatively long narrow land area of MIalawi lies
within the latitude range of 100 to 170 south of the equator, the influence
of its central geographical feature Lake Malawi, its mountainous topography
on both sides of the Rift Valley, and its proximity to the Indian Ocean,
considerably modify the Sudan-type of climate which would otherwise be
expected at such a latitude. Average annual rainfall, even in the drier
parts of the country, generally exceeds 30 inches. A consequence of the
monsoonal type of rainfall system is that about 90 percent of total
precipitation falls in the months November through May.  While this amount
is adequate to meet the crop water requirements for short-term annual
crops, it is not enough to support perennial crops except in a few limited
areas such as Milanje and Cholo.
Mionthly averages of rainfall for a number of centers in the project
area are shown at Table 2.  From these it will be seen that seasonal totals
are more favorable than those recorded for many other parts of Africa. In
fact, so long as adequate soil moisture conservation is practiced, and where
crop husbandry warrants its use, fertilizer usage is not subject to the
constraint of inadequate soil moisture. In contrast with the favorable
soil moisture conditions, the ranges of temperature do impose certain
limitations. High day and night temperatures in the Shire Valley which
favor growth of cotton do not favor seed set of maize.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
TABLE 1
AFRICAIT-GRO?WN CROP PRODUCTION - 1952 to 1966
Crop and Units
Groundnuts           cotton         Tobacco-/       Maize-/
Year          '000's sh tons      '000's sh tons  millions lb  T000's sh tons
1952              4.84                 8.45            12.2            43.40
1953              5.69                10.79            24.6            140.90
1954              7.33                 7.80            19.7            54.35
1955            10.32                  9.58            12.3            19.75
1956              9.77                 3.43            22.4            33.70
1957            13.87                  4.63            21.8             5.80
1958            12.79                  6.12            26.1            12.80
1959            12.82                 10.75,           28.3             5.85
1960             20.70                13.57            20.0            20.00
1961            25.91                 12.96            15.8            18.25
1962             36.23                19.03            22.4             o.45
1963            27.59                 ll.ao            26.8            13.05
1964            19.51                 1)1.73           24.3            30.80
1965            25.21                 22.68            38.6            21.10
1966             46.28                14.27            31.3            62.70
1/   Fire and air cured.
2/   Purchases.
Trend Values Where Applicable
Groundnuts      5.7 to 40.6 Growth 15.0 percen-t p.a.
Cotton         6.2 to 16.8 Growth 7.4 percent p.a.
Source:   l952-539 Ministry of Matural EResources- 1954-66, Draft report
on "Malawi's Current Economic Position and Prospects", dated
October 1967.



ANIEX 1
Page 4
TABLE 2
Average M1onthly Rainfall at Four Centers in the Lower Shire
Rainfall in Inches
Month                Makanga         Sucona          Ngabu           Nkombedzi
November               3.40            2.42           2.31                2.65
December               6.05            5.71           7.13                4.44
January                6.o8            6.82           6.44                7.77
February               6.09            7.12           5.15                5.13
March                  4.50             3.82           4.61               3.40
April                  1.35            1.75           1.59                0.75
Seasonal              24.97           25.22          24.92               21.49
Total            28.46           27.64          27.23              24.14
Insect Pests
The most important single factor causing low yields of cotton
is the damage resulting from the varied types of insect pest whose develop-
ment is favored by the climate. Because of the different types of pest
both the timing of the spray application and the nature of the insecticide
to be used are critical. To ensure coirxplete coverage over all parts of the
plant, a knapsack sprayer with a tail boom has been adopted and as many
as 13 sprayings per season are required for effective pest control. The
expertise required for the necessary early pest identification and for the
fairly complicated spraying schedule is much beyond the capacity of the
untrained farmers. Consequently, provision is made for intensive super-
vision requiring a large number of demonstrators.
Yields
An analysis of the encouraging cotton production increase of
recent years indicates that there has been little or no improvement in
yield during the period.  Although not the lowest in Africa, the average
of little more than 350 pounds of seed cotton per acre leaves considerable
room for improvement.  The compre'hensive s,udies of the Cotton Pests
Research Scheme have shown that small scale plot yields  obtained over a
number of seasons after ten spray applications, were of the order of 1,500
to 2,000 pounds per acre.  When translated to farmers' fields at a generally
lower standard of crop husbandry, averages were still at the satisfactory



ANNEX 1
Page 5
level of between 1,000 and 1,500 pounds. Since 1964 further trials on
farmers' plots gave yields of as imuch as 2,000 pounds per acre from about
25 acres and in the following season 700 polnds per acre from over 413 acres.
This lower yield was obtained in an atypical season when the regional
average was unusually low at about 220 pounds per acre. A realistic
estimate, based on farm scale operations conducted at the Toleza Farm of
the FMB, showed that over four seasons, one of which was the one unfavor-
able season (1965-66), the average yield achieved from ten weekly spraying
was 969 pounds per acre. It is, therefore, prudent to assume an average
seed cotton yield for spraying farmers at 900 pounds per acre initially,
rising with experience to 1,000 pounds per acre.
Attention must also be directed to the continous improvement
of the cotton variety. The existing good medium staple American upland
type known as Albar 637 has been well received in the world market. It
is better than the wide range of 1-1/16 inch cotton available from other
parts of the world but to retain this position careful attention to seed
multiplication is essential. There must be rigid adherence to the principle
of annual replacement throughout the six years required from seed nucleus
to full commercial scale.
In addition to the benefits due to pest control, modest increases
are also projected for such elementary improvements in agronomy as earlier
land preparation, row planting, proper weeding and timeliness of planting.
Therefore, while pest control is vital, it is expected that the application
of these principles will give only modest increases raising the level to
500 pounds per acre on improved but unsprayed plots. These same improvements
in cultural practices are expected to improve cereal yields but more sub-
stantial increase will follow the release of a better adapted strain of
maize. Until this time, yield is expected to increase from 400 to 500 pounds
grain per acre with current strains and to about 700 with the improved strain.
A realistic projection of area expansion, production and increase
in number of families is given in the table below:



AQ.TEX 1
Page 6
TABLE 3
Year
Units          0         5        10        20
- - - - - (thousands) - - - -
Farm Families                 family           15.0    19.0      22.0     29.6
Cultivated Area               acres            86.o   105.3    123.7    126.0
Cotton
Unimproved           )                    45.0    32.1     14.3      10.0
)
Improved             )                      -      4.0     24.0        -
)  acres
Improved & Sprayed  )                      1.0    19.8     26.7      55.0
Total Area           )                    46.0    55.9     65.0      65.0
Production               sh tori           8.5    16.6      21.9     29.3
Maize
Unimproved           )                    40.0    33.4        --
)
Improved             )  acres               -     16.0      58.7     61.0
Total Area           )                    40.0    49.4      58.7     61.0
Production               sh ton            8.0    12.3      20.5     21.4
By the fifth year of the prolect, there will be an increase of nearly 10,000
acres of cotton, the net result of increasing the sprayed area by nearly
19,000 acres; having 4,0C)0 improved but not yet sprayed; and reducing
the unimproved by nearly 13,000 acres.  At the same time the cereal acreage
will also have increased by more than 9,000 acres: the result of having
16,000 improved and reducing unimproved byr nearly 7,000 acres.
The ultimate development of 126,000 cropped acres will be achieved
shortly after the tenth year.  Bat the area of improved and sprayed cotton
is expected to increase at a rate of about 4,000 acres per annum until
55,000 acres is achieved before year 20.
Marketable Value of Cotton, Lint and Seed
Since seed cotton as such is not exported, the marlsetable value
of production cannot be estimated directly.  Data from the FIB accounts
show that at the nine year average ratio of Grade A to Grade B lint, of



ArNNEX 1
Page 7
84 to 16, the weighted average lint price was 24.41 d/lb. 1/ To this must
be added the value of seed net of plantirng requirements at the realistic
rate of 40 pounds per acre.
Marketable value per short ton of seed cotton for the period
1957 to 1965 ranged from f61.3 to U72.7 with an overall average of B65.6.
The basis for forward projections was as follows: 2/
With a ginning out-turn of 32 percent, one ton of seed cotton
would give:
64o lb lint
of which:   538 Grade A 8 27.6d/lb        =   1 61.9
102  "    B @   23d/lb       =   I  9.8
Invisible loss one percent
1,340 lb seed
of which: 1,064 Grade A @ f 12.6/ton    =   , 6.o
276  "    B @ f     4/ton    =   B  0.5
IJAarketable Value                       S 78.2
Less Planting Requirements of
Grade A Seed                           B  0.7
E 77.5
Forward projections assumwe further that marketable value will decline at a
rate of one percent per annum and that during the first six years the
production of Grade A lint will increase annually by one percent to 90.
Value of Maize
Maize production in most years will be less than an estimate of
requirement based on consumption of one pound per head per day. Surplus
maize will be made availabe at the Bangula depot at E 11.5 per short ton.
This value was used to calculate equivalent cash income in the farm budgets
discussed below.
Farm Budgets
The effect of the project actions on the farmers' income is
illustrated in the farm budgets for three farm sizes summarized in Annex 6,
page 3. Actual farm gate unit prices are assurmed constant but since the
ratio of Grade A to Grade B cotton will increase as better pest control is
achieved, the farm gate value of seed cotton is prolected to grow from
B56 to L58 per short ton; maize remains at  ll.5 throughout.
1/   Fob Beira.
2/   Adjusted to take account of the recent devaluation of the Malawian
pound.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MAR.KETMING AMD CREDIT
A. The Farmers' Mlarheting Board
General Background
The Farmers' Marketing Board (FMB) was established under the
Farmers' Marketing Ordinance 4 of 1962, as amended by Ordinance 30 of
1963, as the successor to three previous marketing organizations. Until
1966, existing farmers cooperatives were employed as purchasing agents
by FMB but this sytem proved unsatisfactory to the producers. From the
1966 harvest, the FPIB made arrangements to purchase all agricultural
produce directly through its own markets or through licensed traders.
Responsibilities
The responsibilities of FMB are very comprehensive. The most
important of these include:
(a) the payment of maximum prices for crop produce
consistent with world prices;
(b) the marketing, storage, processing and disposal of
produce grown on African trust or public land;
(c)  the maintenance of adeauate price stabilization
funds to protect growers from excessive world price
fluctuations;
(d)  the provision and maintenance of food stuffs (as
directed by the Government) to meet possible local
shortages occurring as a result of unfavorable
production conditions- and
(e)  the provision at cost or at subsidized price of
agricultural eauivnent and production requisites.
Management and Administration
The FMB, although largely autonomous in its day to day operation
is under the general direction of the Minister for Economic Affairs who
decides, after studying FIB recommendations, on the prices to be paid to
farmers for their produce. It is controlled by a Board of 12 Directors.
Close liaison between the Government and the Farketing Board is maintained
by having the Commissioner for Agriculture, tlhe Secretary to the Treasury,
the Under Secretary for Yatural Pesources and the Secretary for Trade and
Industry as ex-officio directors. The other members include four regional
representative farmer M.P.'s, two large scale farmers and two prominent
businessmen.  Th1ese representatives are appointed annually and are eligible
for reappointment.



AITUEX 2
Page 2
ResDonsibility for administration is delegated to a Malawian
General Manager aided by an expatriate Assistant General Manager, a
Malawian regional manager located at Lilongwe having responsibility for
Central Region and an expatriate regional manager in Limbe in control of
Northern and Southern Regions. A market supervisor will be appointed to
oversee the increased number of cotton markets in the Southern Region.
Market and Credit Operation
The following table shows the network of BIB markets serving the
agricultural population in the Southern Region as well as those in the
project area.
Type                 Total                Numbers in Project Area
Miain Depot                 3                             1
Cotton                     29 1/                         15 _/
Tobacco, Groundnut         14
Groundnut                 101
1/   After project implementation this includes four new markets and the
raising of three temporary mark-iets to perimanent status.
Source: FM1B Annual Report 1965
In addition to the markets, the FL1B also operates groundnut and
tobacco grading centers as well as a cotton and tobacco seed production
farm at Toleza, which multiplies seed of selected varieties from experimental
stations for subsequent distribution th.rough the market netw,{ork. This farm
has sufficient resources to supply all the needs in improved seed3 including
maize.
The FMB has monopoly righ.ts to purchase directly all major crops
although this monopoly is exercised only with respect to cotton, groundnuts
and tobacco. It deals with maize mainly through licensed traders who
purchase from the farmer and deliver to the central depots.  Little maize
is presently sold directly to FMB by farmers.
Two main types of marketz exist- (a) permanent with proper storage
facilities; waiting, grading, buying, anr3 paying enclosures; automatic
recording scales and cash registers, and (b) temporary or bush markets which
have only a buying shed; enclosure; a spring scale, which does not automatic-
ally record produce weights- and a cash register. To ensure fair treatment
for the growers  adequate handling facilities for purchased commodities and
permanent storage for food grain stockus, the FM4B intends to transform these
temporary markets into permanent centers where the volume of produce handled
justifies the expense.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
In the permanent rarket, the growers produce is graded in an
enclosure from which he passes with his goods to the recording scale where
the weight is stamped on his grade card. lIe then progresses to the cashier
where the recorded weight and grade of produce and amount of payment are
automatically stamped on his grower's card and where he receives his money.
Recording gives invaluable data on production and it is essential if credit
programs are introduced where collection of amounts due is made at the time
and location of the sale of produce by the grower. The operation of such
credit programs will also necessitate the limitation of growers' selling
activities to a specific market or markets, if collection of due debts is
to be assured.
In Malawi, the only specialized agency dealing writh agricultural
credit is the Central Farmers' Loans Board (CFLB).  Although established in
1964 as the successor to two other lending institutions, CFLB did not
commence lending until 1965. During the last two years, it has transacted
little business loans outstanding at December 31, 1966 totalled L51,600
compared with E48,197 at the end of 1965. Mediumn and long term loans can
be made to individuals for farm building construction, conservation, and
water supply works, livestock, implements, equipment, fencing materials
and fishing boats. A few short term loans have also been made to large
scale tobacco farmers.
Operations have been hampered by cu7mbersome procedures both in the
field and in subsequent administration and by the lack of experienced field
staff. Assistance towards imrroving the service has recently been provided
by US/AID with the secondiment of a Credit Advisor.  In addition, three
potential credit supervisors are undergoing training in the USA. The Govern-
ment recognizes the shortcomings of the present system and will take active
steps over the next few years to improve the service. Under these circum-
stances it would not be realistic to expect CFLB, at this time, to undertake
credit operations on the scale envisaged in the project.  In the event of
the envisaged improvement, however, it is anticipated that the organization
should be in a position to takl-e over the credit operations as the project
phases out.
Credit facilities in the prolect area will be made available by
the credit fund of the project through the FIIB for the supply to farmers
of sprayers and insecticides. Credit will be given only in kind. During
the five years of the project a UT7 subsidy will be paid by the project on
the first sprayer purchased by any farmer. Thus, the cash cost on the first
sprayer would be fl2. If bought on credit 9 the farmer would make a down-
payment of f3 upon receipt of the sprayer and two subsequent payments of
f6 each annually at the time he markets his cotton crop. The f3 payment
over and above the cash price represents interest and coverage for potential
bad debts. Where sprayer purchases are no longer subsidized (second or
subsequent purchases) farmers will be required to make an initial payment
of E6, followed by two annual payments of E14 each - payable at harvest
time. Insecticides will be distributed in one acre packages at a cash
cost to farmers of f5.25. On credit the farmer will receive them with



ANNEX 2
Page 4
no down payment at the beginning of the cotton season and repay at a
rate of f5.5 per package when he marketed his cotton. The charge for
interest and bad debts in this case is E0.25.
With FMB already having a monopoly in the suDply of sprayers
and insecticides5 it is well adapted as a channel for the disbursement of
credit. Similarly its monopsony marketing position with respect to the
crops grown in the project areas makes it a suitable agency through which
to collect due repayments.  All financial transactions will therefore be
centralized within one organization thereby simplifying the accounting
and administration procedures.
Farmers reauiring credit for production requisites will have
their application approved by the extension and credit officers working
together, who may consult the village committee where one exists, as to
the grower's status in the cormunity. Approved applicants will present a
purchase order to the F'MB. The appropriate requisites will be provided,
after obtaining the grower's signature or mark on a pledge-of-crop form
and the transaction will be recorded on the grower's registration cards.
These cards will be kept in triplicate, one copy being retained respec-
tively by the grower, the FMB and the credit officer.  Interest will be
calculated at the time of purchase and included in the sale price, the
rate being designed to cover any bad debts which might accrue.
The cards will also specify the market at iThich the grower is
able to sell his produce and he would be permitted to use only the center
designated.
The marketing procedure will be identical to that now in opera-
tion, however no grower will be able to leave the market enclosure with-
out having his cards examined and necessary credit payments deducted.
Since crop purchase is likely to be confined to cotton only it will be
unnecessary to have a credit officer on duty at markets in the Lower
Shire River. An appropriate deduction will be made where credit repay-
ment is due and the cards will record this transaction.
In the event of crop failure, the grower will be required to
obtain a certificate to this effect from his extension officer. The
credit officer would then visit the grower and would be empowered to
agree to defer or reduce the credit repaynents for that year.
At the time of issue of credit, FMB will account to the credit
fund of the project (para 5.12) for the goods supplied and be reimbursed
on the basis of cif price. It will subsequently supply weekly records
of the credit repayments collected and reimburse the credit fund accord-
ingly. FlIB will also supply a detailed analysis of the additional costs
incurred in the credit collection, these being primarily related to
collection of payments and the additional accountants in Limbe.



A'NNEX 2
Page 5
Pricing and Purchasing Policy
The declared policy of the Board to pay growers the maximum
possible prices consistent with world prices and operational costs, is
designed to stimulate production and to speed up the orientation of growers
towards a cash economy. To augment the effect of this policy, the FMB with
the approval of the Minister of Economic Affairs, publishes provisional
forward prices at planting time and final prices just before harvest after
a review of the world market situation.
The F!B must purchase all produce offered to it provided that
it cannot be classified as damaged, dirty or spoiled. Strict grading
procedures especially for cotton have been adopted at all markets in the
1966/67 season to reduce losses occasioned in the past by inefficient
methods of classification.
TradiLng Policy
The EMB has monopoly purchas'ng powers for cotton, groundnuts
and tobacco.  It also deals with other produce mainly miscellaneous pulses,
cereals and oil seeds.  Of the total sum paid to farmers each year, 75 per-
cent relates to the three main crops and the remainder to the miscellaneous
produce section as su=riarized below:
Purchases of CroD
1964                1965              1966
t 000 Pence/lb       _ 000 Pence/lb   B 000 Pence/lb
Cotton                 763       5.8       1,126      5.8     631       5.5
Grourdnuts             768  4.5/5.0        1,050      5.0   2,260       6.o
Tobacco                768     10.0        1,925    il.4   l,422       10.7
Misc. Produce          822     Var         1,309      Var   1,530       Var
Total           3,121                 5,h10            5,843
Farm gate price realization for cotton is greatly affected by the
proportion of Grade B cotton. Insect pests and plant diseases account for
as much as 20 percent in this categcry. As a result the average price to
the grower for the years above has declined from about 5.8 to 5.5 d/lb.
Produce is sold both on local and export markets. The traditional market
for cotton was Rhodesia but increased production in that country has caused
RIB to seek new markets.  In 1966, smaall auantities of Grade A cotton were
sold in France, Germany, Holland, Hong 'Kong, Italy, Switzerland.  The bulk
of the crop was however purchased by the United Kingdom. Grade B stocks
were retained to meet the anticipated demand of the new textile mill.
Internal consumption is estimated at an ultimrate consumption of 10,000 bales



ANTEX 2
Page 6
(2,000 short tons) per annum (i.e. 30 -percent of the record 1965 production).
The demand from U.K. is also expected to increase provided better classifi-
cation standards are established and steps have already been taken to
improve the situation.
FmB distributes free planting seed through the markets in the
cotton-growing areas. Before 1966, no attempt was made to control the
quantity issued to each grower and the Board lost a considerable amount of
potential revenue from the resulting wastage of seed which could have been
sold for oil extraction. In the 1965 record season, some 6,154 short tons
of seed were sold for crushing. Asswuaing a ginning out percentage of 32 per-
cent and making allowance for invisible losses of one percent, and planting
requirements (@ 40 lb per acre), a further 6,200 short tons should have been
available. At values then current, this would have increased the margin on
cotton transactions by B50,000.  FMB has now taken steps, by registering
growers and introducing a simple system of seed allocation on an acreage
basis to eliminate such wastage in future.
In dealing with other produce, the FIB is fulfilling its obligation
to provide an assured mar'et for growers' produce.  The main crops in this
respect are mixed beans and maize. Beans posed a major problem in 1966 with
the loss of customary export markets in Rhodesia and South Africa due to
increased home production in these countries. Eventually, the crop was sold
to Japan but at a loss of LE91,000 to the FMB.  Consultations are presently
being held with the Department of Agriculture to find alternative crops.
It is also intended to make price adjustments to encourage production of
those types of bean for which there is a relatively assured market and to
explore the possibility of finding suitable alternative crops.
Trading in maize has been very variable with no specific pattern
being established. This is understandable with a basic food crop which is
subject to storage losses; sales of surplus grain to FMB are effected by the
growers only when the success of the subsequent crop is assured. FIIB is
obliged to maintain a stock of maize against possible food shortage. In 1963,
this amounted to 5,000 tons, raised in 1964 to 10,000 tons and now stands at
15,000 tons.  Sales by the Board are effected both locally in food deficit
areas and on the export market. In 1966, exports amounted to 49,000 tons
of which 20,000 tons were sold to the Congo and the remainder on the U.K.
Market. U.K. brokers are reputed to be prepared to purchase up to 240,000
tons per annum at ruling market price for distilling purposes.
Financial Results
The Trading accounts for the three years 19624-1966 are shown in
Table 1.  Appreciable inter-seasonal variations of income from the various
crops are evident, the most notable being the losses experienced in 1966
from cotton (El0,400) and general produce (E29,000). In the case of the
former, bad weather conditions resulted in low yields and poor quality
produce, the effects of which factors were further stressed by poor grading
at markets and at the ginnery.  Difficulties respecting classification of
lint led to claims of I15,000 but as a result of the introduction of new



ANNEX 2
Page 7
grading and classification procedures, there should be no recurrence.
Also now that provision of planting seed is being rationally controlled,
the loss on cotton trading will be eliminated by the sales income from
the oil extraction plant.
Despite these losses, the overall trading account showed a profit
of B705,000, compared with E940,000 in 1964 and r1,164,000 in 1965.
Research Grants and Subsidies
Incorporated in the trading account are research grants (the sums
paid varying from E16,000 to E31,000) and, in 1964 and 1965, subsidies on
fertilizers and cotton spraying equipment (19066 subsidies were transferred
to the income and expenditure account). Fertilizer subsidy has become an
important item of costs to the FBD.  Sales of fertilizers and the subsidy
element are shown below:
Quantity Sold       Cost to FMB
Short tons             E
1964                      2,200             37,000
1965                      6,200             78,500
1966                      9,400             77,500
These figures do not show the full cost of the subsidy. In 1965, the West
German Government gifted 660 tons and provided the subsidy for a further
1170 tons, while in 1966. the UK Government made a grant of f75,000 towards
the subsidy costs. Forecasts of fertilizer use in MalawTi show further
appreciable increases in consumption arid, under the present system, an
increasing burden would be placed upon the FM4B.  The Government proposes
to set a ceiling figure on subsidy contributions of E300,000 and gradually
to increase the price of fertilizer to the grower with the aim of elimi-
nating the subsidy element by 1976.  In the meantime, if MRB is to develop
an improved marketing organization and continue its policy of paying high
prices to the farmer, it will be necessary to find alternative means of
funding the subsidy.  It would seem logical for the Government to assume
initial responsibility for the costs of the scheme and to devise a system
of taxing FMB's tradinG; results rather than to include subsidy as a direct
charge upon profits.
The same observation should apply to the cotton pest equipment
subsidy the costs of which were:
1964      E  2,250
1965      r, l0800
1966      f  2,360
The figure of E2,360 does not appear in the 1966 accounts, as it was met by
a grant of  15 630 from the UK Government, the balance being held against
sprayers now in stock.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Overhead Costs
The balance from the trading account is carried forward to the
Income and Expenditure Account (Table 2) which shows the general overheads
of the organization.
The Ordinance establishing the Board makes provision for payments
from Government to Board or vice versa for services rendered. In practice,
the sum of E48,OOO per annum is shown as grant to the Government.
Inter-seasonal variation in total expenditure is relatively small
after account is taken of the differing accounting methods used in allocating
costs. The appropriate balances for transfer to reserves and capital
accounts were as follows:
1964      E 365,000
1965      r 490,000
1966      n  40,000
Financial Position
The Balance Sheets of the FUIB for the three years 1964/66 are
detailed in Table 3. Briefly summiarized t-hese show the following situation
1964      1965       1966
E m      f m       fm
Assets               3.92      4.51       6.24
Liabilities          0.19      0.25       1.92
Net Worth           3.73       4.26       4.32
In assessing values, fixed assets have been depreciated at a high
rate and stocks on hand are valued conservatively at net realizable prices!
most of the produce is sold or contracted before the accounts are finalized.
Although alloMrance for bad debt has been made in the accounts, the figure
of approximately E40,000 shown in each year as owing by Cooperative Societies
should be regarded as largely irrecoverable and the assets adjusted accord-
ingly.  This sum represents advances made to cooperatives (now, in the main,
defunct) when acting as licensed buurers for FB prior to 1966.
The apparent increase in both assets and liabilities in 1966, a
difficult trading year for the Board, may be attributed almost entirely to
delayed marketing of the groundnut cron. Due to factors outside the control
of FMB, heavy stocks of nuts were unsold a.t the end of the year (valued
at 11,852,0CO comnared with Fl238,000 at thcm end of 1965.)  This increased
value was balanced by bank overdraft facilities to finance the purchase of
E1,719,000.



ANN7EX 2
Page 9
Funds invested by FI,B in the Ialawi Government and the I4alawi
Development Corporation (IDC) are substantial.  Of total investments of
mi311,000o f659000 is in Governnent bonds and bills. The holding in 1DC
(1100,000) is directly related to the sale by F25B to that body of the
National Oil Industries Ltd., (the cotton seed oil extraction plant)
whilst the David Whitehead (Malawi) Ltd. investment is connected with
the establ-islment of the textile mill in Malawi.  This latter figure
(i130,000, more recently increased to D200,000) may again be said to be
on behalf of MDC but will be of undoubted assistance to FMIB in future
cotton marketing.
The figures for loans altered materially between 1965 and 1966.
Of the total of E71,000 of loans other than to IvMDC at the end of 1965, the
sum of ;66 ,O00 represented a contribution on behalf of the Government
towards a cooperative scheme for the production of flue cured tobacco in
the Kasungu area of the Central Region. The sum of E4l,O0O was written
off against contingency reserve in 1966 as a bad debt.  The main difference
between the two years is the lending of E;40,000  (at 4 percent for a period
of 8 years) to the Government towards the purchase of shares in the Malawi
Railways. It is obviously in the direct interests of the Malawi Government
to ensure the continuing prosperity of FMB.
The net worth of F?B as at the end of 1966 was £4.3 million,
composed of an accumulated trading surplus of 11.6 million, a price support
fund reserve of E2.5 million, and other reserves of E0.2 million. The last
figure includes a contingency reserve of E59, 000 and a research reserve of
B125,000. One-half percent of the gross value of produce sold is trans-
ferred to research reserve each year, but no payments out of this fund
have been made.  Contributions towards research (CE60,00o  in 1966) are
shown as a cost in the trading account.
Under the project, the F74B will be receiving funds on loan from
the Government and will be handling credit transactions.  Thus, it will
be necessary for the accounts to be submitted to the official Government
auditors. This should ensure a uniformity of presentation and a logical
consideration of investments and reserves. It should also enable attention
to be drawn more quickly to apparent anomalies such as losses of cotton
seed.
Careful consideration by the mission of the balance sheets and
financial accounts as well as the administrative structure of the organi-
zation have led it to conclude that the FM.B can be relied upon to fulfill
the tasks envisaged for it in the protect.



M A L A J4 I
FARMERS' MARKETIR) EDARD - PROFIT (LOSS)
Trading Account for the year ending 31st December -
1964                                                    1965                                                          1966
Other                                                     Other                                                       Other
Cotton  _rouodnsuts-  Tobacco   Produce   To-)           Cotton   Grcundnuts   Tobacco   Produce   Total _          Cotton   Groundnuts   Tobacco   Produce   Total
Purchase of Crop                                              763        768          767       823       3,121       1,3127     1,050         1,925      1,309    5,410           631       2.260        1,423        1,53C   5,34L
Buying and Direct Expenses                                    137        176          293       135         742         219        231           560        202    1,212           190         333           471-        218   1,213
being - Comrission to Co-operatives                         13         22            -        10          45          20         26            -          12        60           -           -             -           -         -
Processing (G.rading, Ginning, Baling)              66          -         167         -         233         105          -           313           -      418            74          15          266          -       355
Labour                                               9         23          48        1B          99           9         23            67         40       138           45           39           60          61      206
Transport                                           15         74           60       75         255          32        100           128        109       369            27         19Q          101          7C      388
Other ixpenses                                      34         57          18        32         140          53         80            52         41       227            44          89           44          87      266
Research Grants and Subsidies                                   15         _           48         -          63          29         _             69         23       120           16          _-                        -        16
bemng - Research Grants                                      13          -           11         -          24          18          _            13          -        31           16            -            -          -        16
Fertili-er EL,hsidy I/                                -          -           37         -         37            -                       56         23       78             -           _            _          _
Cotton Pest Equipment Subsidy K/                     2          -            -         -          2          11          -              -          -       11             -
Selling Expenses                                                82        88           67        56         273          85        141            56          7       290          120          109           42         196      867
Total Purchases ard Direct Expenses                           997      1,032        1,155    1,014        4,199       1,460      1,422         2,610      1,541    7,032           957       2,702         1,936       1.964   7,Si
Sales of Crop                                                 902      1,504        2,100    1,243        5,749       1,214      1,708         3,106      1,296    7,325         1,262       1,356         2,372       1,733   6,703
Less:  Stocks on hard at beginning of year                  328        249          288       385       1,251         436          4             -        200       641          77S         238             -         496   1,512
574     1,255        18           58       6,498         778       ,70          3,106      1,096    6,684                      1,9          22          1,237   5,191
Adds   Stocks -n ha rd  t end of year                       436          4            _       200         641         778        238             -        496    1,512           486       1,852            4D         678   3,055
Total Sales Adjusted for Stocks                             1,010      1,259        1,812    1,058        5,139       1,556      1,942         3,106      1,592    8,196           947       2,971         2,412       1,915   8,246
Balance on Trading Account                                     13        227          657        44         940           96       520           496         51    1,164            (10)        269          476          (29)    705
(t  transfer to inc e  and expnditre account)              -           -                                                                                  -
1/ Cost of fertilizer subsidy in 1966 transferred to income and expenditure account.
/  Cost of cotton pest equipment subsidy in 1966 was met by a U.K. government grant, the balance of which (b13,272) is credit in valuation of sprayers in hand.
3/ Inconsistencies are due to rounding errors.



ANNEX 2
i4ALAWI                               Table 2
FARMERS MARKETING BOARD                      1/
INCCME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDBiG 31st DECEMBER-
1964   1965   1966
i 2000
EXPENDITURE
Administration and General Charges                                   260    283    335
being:   Bank Charges and Interest on Overdraft                        4     21     47
Rent Rates Electricity and Water                            22     27      25
Salaries and Wages                                         105    108    162
Transport and Travel                                        31     39      17
Other Expenses                                              98     88      84
1MAINTENANCE                                                             71    115    126
DEPRECIATION                                                            216    244   111
RESEARCH  GRANTS AND SUBSIDIES                                           h8     49    126
being:   Research -rant to Malawi Goverrment.                        48      48     48
Fertilizer Subsidy                                          -      -       78
Other                                                       -       1      -
TOTAL EXPENDITURE               595    692    698
INCCME
Balance On Trading Account                                          9h0  1,164    705
Add:     Sundry Revenue                                               20     18     33
TOTAL INCOME                    960  1,182    738
BALANCE                                                             365    490      40
Less:    Transfer to Reserves and
Provision for Bad Debt                                    29    141     33
SURPLUS TRANSFERRED TO PRICE SUPPORT                                336    349       7
FUND/ACCUMULATED SURPLUS.
1/ Inconsistencies due to rounding errors.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
MALAWI
FARERS MARKETING BOARD   1/
BALANCE SHEET AT 31st DECEMBER-
1964   1965   1966
i 1Q000
ASSETS
Fixed Assets (after depreciation)                               558    574    602
Being:  Freehold Properties                                     220    307    325
Leasehold Properties                                   219    129    109
Plant, Machinery, Equipment and Vehicles               119    138    168
Works in Progress (Capital Works)                                92     31    300
Investments                                                     139    166    311
Being:  Malawi Government                                        10     60     65
Malawi Development Corporation                          100    100    100
David Whitehead (Malawi) Ltd.                           -       -     130
Others                                                  29       6     16
Loans                                                            49     88    417
Being:  Malawi Government                                        -      -     400
Malawi Development Corporations                           2     17     17
Others                                                  47      71     -
Current Assets                                                3,081  3,648  4,611
Being:  Stocks Stores and Crops                                 838  1,832  3,605
Debtors trade, staff and cooperatives                  621    925    581
Balance at bankers, cash and transit                 1,622    891    425
Offsetting Accounts                                             68      74     71
TOTAL            3,987  4,581  6.312
LIABILITIES AND NET WOR4IH
Current Liabilities and Provisions                              186    247  1 923
Being:  Creditors:  Trade and Co-operatives                     186    247    204
Bank Overdraft                                          -       -   1,719
Net Worth                                                     3,732  4,260  4,318
Being:  Accumulated Surplus                                   1,491  1,491  1,599
Price Support Fund                                   2,162  2,549  2,500
Resexves for Research, Contingencies, etc.              79    220    219
Offsetting Accounts                                             68      74     71
TOTAL            381  6 ,3
1/  Inonslstencies are due to rounding figures to E 000.



MALAWI                               ANNEX 3
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Project Personnel
Expatriate 1/
Grade   or Malawi    Year 1  Yea- 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6
Project Director 2/              E           1               1        1        1        -
Understudy           PO          M           -       -        -       1         1       1
Extension Supervisor             E or M      2       2        2       1        1        -
Understudies         STO         M           -       1        1       1         1       1
HTO         M           1       2        3       2         2       2
Training Officer                 E or M      1       1        1       -         -       -
Understudies         HTO         M           -       -        1       1         1       1
TO          M           1       2       1        1         -       -
Credit/Marketing
Officer                       E           1       1       1        -        -        -
Understudies         HTO         M           -       -       1        1        1        1
TO          M           1       1       1        1        1        1
Head Experimental
Officer                       E           1       1       1        -         -       -
Field Assistants    HTA          M           9      U       14       15       15       15
Administrator        CEO or CTO  M or E      2       2        2       2         2       2
Foreman Mechanic    HTA          M           1       1       1        1        1        1
Clerks              TA           M          20      22       24      25       25       25
Demonstrators       TA           M          50      95     135      135      135      135
Driver.              TA          M           7       9        9       9        9        9
Mechanics            TA          M           3       3        3       3         3       3
Total Net Cost
- - - - - - - - - -  m 000's - - - - - - -
Net Annual                                  48      65      79       69       69       62
1/ E - Expatriate
M - Malawian
2/  Except for the project director who is hired at a net annual cost of L3,64o, the
annual cost to government of each of the other expatriate project personnel is L3,066.
Net Annual Cost *
(IC)
PO  = Professional Officer                2,271
STO - Senior Technical Officer           1,319
HTO - Higher Technical Officer           1,006
TO - Technical Officer                     692
HTA = Higher Technical Assistant            434
CED - Chief  Executive Officer           1,006
TA  - Technical Assistant                   258
CTO = Chief Technical Officer            1,006
* Net Cost - Salary + Inducement Allowance + Pension/Gratuity + Passages - House Rental -
Income ta)



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Foreign Currency Components for Project
U.S.
Foreign                             Equivalent
Total             Currency               Percent        ($ million)
Capital Investments                       - - - - I m 000's - - - -
Vehicles and equipment                   57                 57                   100            0.137
Buildings                               393                137                    35            0.329
Borehole drilling                       163                153                    94            0.367
Road construction                       152                126                    83            0.302
Land settlement                          19                  8                    42            0.019
Sub-total                            784                481                    61            1.154
Contingency                         193                  58                                  0.151
Total Capital Costs                 977                 539                    55            1.305
Pest Control
Sprayers                                154                140                    91            0.336
Insecticides                            302                274                    91            0.658
Sub-total                           456                 414                    91            0.994
Contingency                            8                  6                     -            0.014
Total Pest Control                  464                 420                    91            1.008
Recurrent Costs
Staff Costs
Expatriates                           70                 37                    53            0.089
Malawians                            260                  -                     _              _
Other Recurrent                       86                 79                    92            0.190            0 *
Sub-total                           416                 116                                  0.278
Contingency                           70                  9                                  0.022           H
Total Recurrent                      486                125                    26            0.300
G                                         =
Grand Total                       1,2                 1084                     56            2.613



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expenditure Schedule
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4       Year 5       Contingency    Total
- --                                m OOO's - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Capital Investments                    389          183           136            42           34            193          977
Pest Control                            40            60           85           120          151              8          464
Recurrent Costs
(a)  Expatriates                    19            19            19             7            7      )
(b)  Malawians                      29            h6            60            62           62     )       70          h86
(c)  Other                          10            16            20            20           20      )
Total Recurrent Costs                58            81           99            89           89
Contingency                             81           48            62            40           40            271
Grand Total                            568           372          382           291          314                       1 927
D =



MALAWI: SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY  OF ECONOMIC  AFFAIRS                                                             OF WORKS
FARMERS    l
MARKETING                                                        DIRECTOR  OF AGRICULTURE
BOARD
jCHIEF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT OFFICER (ADS)
l                            |                                                               l   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WELL|
PROJECT MANAGER (E) 5 YEARS (ADS)                                                   l
MALAWI UNDERSTUDY  (YEAR 4)                                                    T1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                                                          I 
I  CREDIT/MARKETING        EXTENSION            EXTENSION            TRAINING        FIELD EXPERIMENTS      ADMINISTRATIVE    I
MARKET          I      OFFICER (E)      OFFICER (E) OR (M)   OFFICER (E) OR (M)   OFFICER (E) OR (M)      OFFICER (E)           OFFICER
SUPERVISOR     -          3 YEARS             3 YEARS              4 YEARS              3 YEARS             3 YEARS              (E) OR (M)      i
l    2 MALAWIANS                                                   2 MALAWIANS                                                I
MARKET                                             FIELD ASSISTANTS                                                          ADMINISTRATION    I
BUYERS      l                                        15 MALAWIANS                                                             2 MALAWIANS*    I
DEMONSTRATORS                                                          CLERICAL, DRIVERS
L 135 MALAWIANS                                                              20 MALAWIANS    I
MIncludes foremn mechanic.                                                                                                                                                        X
CE) Expatriate.
CM) Malawian.                                                                                                                                                       (R) IBRD-3496



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICUJLTURAL DEVEIOE1)EIT PROJECT
Phasin;f_ProJect:  Population, Area Cultivated, Yields a.id Production
MAIZE                                                             COTTON             ._.
Cultivated                        Total  Average                                           Improved    Total   Average
Tear   Families  Area   Unimproved   Improved   Area    Yield    Production   Unimproved   Improved & Sprayed   Area             Yield    Production
'000    ------ ^ '000 Acres  - -lb/Acre   '000 stons   ---…-'000 Acres…---/---------Acre   '000 stons
0      15.0     86.0      40.o          nil     40.0      400           8.0        45.0          nil        1.0       46.o      369           8.5
1      15.7     89.0      40.7          1.0     41.7      407           8.5        43.6          nil        4.2       47.8      403           9.6
2      16.5    93.3       41.6          2.0     43.6      414           9.0        41.5          0.5        7.7       49.7      447          11.1
3      17.3     99.2      41.5          4.o     45.5      426           9.7        39.4          1.0       11.3       51.7      489          12.7
4      18.1   101.0       39.3          8.0     47.3      451          10.7        36.6          2.0       15.1       53.7      536          14.4
5      19.0   105.3       33.4         16.0     49.4      497          12.3        32.1          4.0       19.8       55.9      595          16.6
6      19.6   109.1       27.2         24.0     51.2      541          13.8        28.3          8.o       21.6       57.9      617          17.9
7      20.2   112.9       21.0         32.0     53.0      581          15.4        24.8         12.0       23.1       59.9      634          19.0
8      20.8   116.7       14.8         40.0     54.8      619          17.0        21.2         16.0       24.7       61.9      650          20.1
9      21.4   120.7        8.8         48.0     56.8      654          18.6        17.8         20.0       26.1       63.9      664          21.2
10      22.0   123.7        nil         58.7     58.7      700          20.5        14.3         24.0       26.7       65.0      674          21.9
11      22.7    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0         28.0        27.0      65.o      686          22.3
12      23.4    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0         24.0       31.0       65.0      716          23.3
13      24.1    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0         20.0        35.o      65.0       747         24.3
14      24.8    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0         16.0        39.0      65.0       778         25.3
15      25.5    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0         12.0       43.0       65.o       809         26.3
16      26.3    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0          8.o        47.0      65.0       840         27.3
17      27.0    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0          4.o        51.0      65.0       870         28.3
18      27.9    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0       700         21.4         10.0         nil        55.0      65.0       901         29.3
19      28.7    126.0       nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0          nil        55.0      65.o       901         29.3      t t
20     29.6    126.0        nil         61.0     61.0      700          21.4        10.0          nil        55.0      65.0       901         29.3      F
0'



X4ALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Value of Production in the Project Area
Forecast Value of Production                Value Without Project 1/                 Production Due to Project
Year        Cotton        Maize         Total         Cotton        Maize         Total         Cotton         Maize        Total
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  ; m OOO's - - - - - - _    - - - - - - - - -  --- - - -- - - -
0           658           84           742           658           84            742             -              -            -
1           741           89           830           677           87            764            64              3          67
2           849           95           944           697           89            786           152              6         158
3           961          102        1,063            716           92            808           245             10         255
4         1,088          112         1,200           736           94             830          352             18          370
5         1,248          129         1,377           757           97            854           490             33         523
6         1,328          145         1,473           776           99            875           552             46         598
7         1,399          162         1,561           796          102            898           603             60         663
8         1,471          179         1,650           815          104            919           657             74         731
9         1,535          195         1,730           835          107            942           700             88          788
10         1,569           215        1,784           854          109             963          715            106          821
11         1,580           225        1,805            875         112             987          705            113          818
12         1,636           225        1,861            895         114          1,009           741            111          852
13         1,690           225        1,915            914         117          1,031           776            108          884
14         1,744           225        1,969            934         119          1,053           811            105          916
15         1,795           225        2,020            953         122          1,075           842            103          945
16         1,847           225        2,072            973         124          1,097           875            100          975
17         1,895           225        2,120            992         127          1,119           903             98        1,001
18         1,942           225        2,167         1,013          129           1,142          930             95        1,025
19         1,922           225        2,147         1,033          132           1,165          889             93          982
20         1,901          225         2,126         1,052          134          1,186           850             90          940
1/  Assuming growth of 3 percent per year, equal to assumed natural rate of growth of population.                                    |



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELDPNENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets With and Without the Project
Price to           5 Acre. Farm                7.5 Acre Farm               10 Acre Farm
Yields   Grower    Cropped   Prod.    Value    Cropped    Prod.    Value   Cropped    Prod.       Value
lb/ac     E/ton     Area    sh. ton     1        Area     sh. ton     L      Area     sh. ton       L
(A) Without the Project
Cotton                 357    56.2          2      0.357    20.1       4.5      0.803    45.1        7       1.250     70.3
Maize                  400    11.5          3      0.600     6.9        3.0      0.600     6.9       3       0.600      6.9
Gross Revenue                                                 27.0                          52.0                          77.2
Less Hired Labor                                             _                             1.0                          1.9
Net Revenue                                                   27.0                          51.0                          75.3
Net Revenue Per Acre                                          5.40                          6.80                          7.53
Total Net Revenue after FMB Cess V/                           25.9                          48.6                          71.5
(B)  With the Project
(-Ultimate Development)
Cotton               1,000    57.9          2      1.000    57.9       4.5      2.250   130.3        7       3.500    202.7
Maize                  700    11.5          3      1.050    12.1       3.0      1.050   12.1         3       1.050     12.1
Gross Revenue                                                 70.0                         142.4                        214.8
Less Costs:V/
(1) Sprayer QZ30
over 3 years                                           11.3                         11.3                          11.3
(2) Insecticide @E5.5/ac                                   11.0                         24.8                          36.5
(3) Hired Labor
(a) Preparation
of Land                                              _                  5 days   1.0                15 days    1.9
(b) Spraying                                             _                 12 days   1.5                32 days    4.0
(c) Weeding                                                                           -                1
(d) Harvesting                                           _                             _               120 days  15.0
Net Revenue                                                   47.7                         103.8                        144.1
Net Revenue after FMB Cess 1/                                 44.7                          97.0                         133.6
Net Revenue Per Acre                                          8.94                         t13.84                       E13.36
Incremental Net Revenue                                       20.7                          52.8                         68.8
Incremental Net Revenue after FMB Cess 1                      18.8                          48.4                         62.1
Incremental Net Revenue as Percent
of Unimproved                                               77%                         103%                           91%
Percent after Calculating Cess                                72%                           99%                          87%
/  See para 4.17.  Assumed to be 5 percent of FMB sale value, no cess on maize.                                                        b
2/ Pest control inputs assumed purchased on credit.



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVOPMENTM PROJECT
Estimated Net Benefits and Costs to Project
1/
Benefits               Ginning         FMB      Net Bennefits  Benefits    Total                2/
From       On-Farm     and        Operating      from           from   Benefits      Project -      Net
Year        Cotton       Inputs  Processing      Costs        Cotton        Maize  from Project   Costs    Benefits
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - E m  000's - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1            64          41          6             5           12            3           15         526       -51n
2           152          61         13           13            65           6            71         312       -241
3           245           86        19           19           121          10           131         296       -165
4           352         120         29            29          174          18           192         171         21
5           490         152         40           40           258           33          291         163        128
6           552         151         46            34          321           46          367         115        252
7           603         170         51           37           345          60           405         115        290
8           657         186         56           42           373           74          447         115        332
9           700         182         61            46          411           89          500         105         395
10           715          193        63            47          412          106          518          95         423
11           705          200        64            32          409          113          522          85         437
12           741          231        69            34          407         111           518          85        433
13           776          260        74            36          406          108          514          85        429
14           811          287        77            38          409          105          514          85        429
15           842          318        82           41           401          103          504          85        419
16           875          347        86            43          399          100          499          85         414
17           903          373        91           46           393           98          491          85        406
18           930          404        94            47          385           95          480          85         395
19           889          411        93            47          338           93          431          85         346
20           850         411         92           43           304           90          394          85        309
21           806         411         91           41           263           88          351          85         266
22           766         411         88           40           227           86          313          85         228
23           728         411         87           37           193           83          276          85        191
24           691         411         86            36          158           81          239          85        154
25           657         411         85            34          127           79          206          85        121
1/  Calculated at 10 percent of farmers revenue for first 5 years; 7.5 for new 5 years and 5 percent thereafter.
2/ Adjusted from estimates in Armex 4.



MALAWI
SHIRE VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow Within the Project
Year      Year      Year       Year      Year       Year      Year        Year       Year      Year    Year
1         2          3          4        5          6         7           8          9         10       11
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I m  000's - - -                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  _
Uses of Funds
Investments and Staffing           395       289        273       159        163       115        115        115        105         95      85
Loan to FMB                        131         23        23        12         -          -         -          -          -          -        -
Sprayers and Insecticides           41         60        86       120        151       150        170        186        183        193     200
Ida Credit Service                  -           4         7          9        10        12         12          12        12         12      12
Total:                          567        376       389       300        324       277        297         313       300        300     297
Sources of Funds
FMB Cess                            32         42        49        54         62        66         70          73        76         78      79
Withdrawals fron IDA               569        331       305        176       160         -         -           -         -          -        -
FMB Repayments                      _           9        10        12         12        12         17         17         17         17      17
Farmer Repayments                    2         29        54         79       111       146        162         180       196        204     206
Total:                          603        411       418        321       345        224       249         270       289        299     302
Net Annual Surplus (Deficit)            36        35        29         21        21        (53)       (48)       (43)       (11)      (1)       5



-> {._*)  REPUBLIC
/ji of the
CONGO     T A N Z A N I A
C1h.ipa                                              ANGOLA r  Z AMB A         ALA   I
BHODESIAJ
* I                  .\                    SOUTH    .4MALAWI
'A >  V   \   _     WST  , BOTSWAN A _     ,'O.
SO0UT" I   'SWAZILAND
AFRICA(,     ,
\                      I'$S  $Bhilunibl;  ,    X            OLESOTHO
NO  RN
ump'                               <
/I
y  mG/ N  -                                                'A
ROJr MRuzu  Nkhat  r                          *-
/~~~~ MA                 Bo   A         W       l       '
Mzimnbo
,                      /tNkota Kota
N                                   I~~~~~~~~ 
Kaosung g              *
A.)             3    ,  7            *R               SALIMA  
.'      ~ IJLONGWE//   (. _?!7              Dedzo Gdl  oti   \                             E
-   PROGRAM   \ j-;                t    \               PROJECT
-~~~~ -etr - - -°npe Inenainl ondr
M~~~~~~~w                                      AREWA    iL  h/w 
OeTlonal Boundaries                   >     >     
9 Lilonrrwe oro Lra                                area-
Shire Project Area                      .                                                  <
PR ~   ~ ~ ~ RJEA\;Soi
0     20    40      60    60    10       AREAr
MILES 167                                                                   R-2095l
NOV}:LER  967                                                                           IRD-29511



\ ~~MAJETE GAME RESERVEtSr 
1\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SUCOMA
{1       <2}zezz          S    a 9°<di,
M AX L A     I             \IUM
SHIRE~~ VALE    PRJC                                   -?=MA S 4
( \RiO2Ecr t S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j s \ < ,MAIN ROAD
d        f~~RILAS 
INENTINLBONAIS/ /E
0~ ~ 4  NGABUE
AUGUST   ALA      I  196                                HIBRDM  301



