CREDIT NUMBER 114 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 5, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 114 MAI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 5, 1968


﻿0
Drtrlopment (eThbit Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated February 5, 1968, between the
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended Feb-
ruary 9, 1967 (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1
being hereinafter called the Regulations), with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms, wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a) "FMB" means the Farmers Marketing Board of
the Borrower, e4tablished under the Farmers Mar-
keting Ordinance, as amended in 1963.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement between the Borrower and FMB, referred
to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(c) "Project Area" means the area covering about
130,000 acres within the Chikwawa South Adminis-
trative Sub-District in the Southern Region of the
Borrower, as defined in the General Notice No. 866
of December 6, 1967.
(d) "Project period" means the period during which
the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed.
0


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand dollars
($3,700,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such
Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account as
provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, this Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall be en-
titled to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(a) the equivalent of e percentage or percentages as may
be established from time to time by agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Association of such
amounts as shall have been expended for the rea-
sonable cost of goods required for carrying out the
Project;
(b) such amounts as shall have been expended for the
reasonable foreign currency cost of the goods re-
quired to carry out the Project and not included in
the foregoing sub-section (a); and
(c) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required by the Borrower to meet payments
under the foregoing sub-section (b)


﻿5
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures made prior to the date of this
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (% of 1%) per annmm on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 1978
and ending October 1, 2017, each installment to and in-
cluding the installment payable on October 1, 1987 to be
one-half of one per cent (  of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (1%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
purposes of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project described in the Schedule to this Agreement. The
specific allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, and the
methods and procedures for procurement of the goods to
be financed out of such proceeds, shall be determined by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, sub-
ject to modification by further agreement between them.


﻿6
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
used in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the
carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound ad-
ministrative, agricultural, engineering, and financial prac-
tices, and shall make available, promptly as needed, all
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
construction works for the Project shall be carried out by
contractors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion and employed under contracts satisfactory to the Bor-
rower and the Association.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, in the carrying out of the Project, employ
qualified and experienced staff.
(d) During the Project period, the Borrower shall ob-
tain prior agreement of the Association with respect to
any appointment to the post of Project Manager.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend a part of
the proceeds of the Credit, or the equivalent of such pro-
ceeds, to FMB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the


﻿7
Association pursuant to a loan agreement satisfactory to
the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its right under the loan
agreement referred to in the foregoing sub-section (a) in
such manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and
the Association; and, except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate
or waive any provision of such loan agreement.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project and to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods and any relevant records and documents; and shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the operations with respect to the Project
of FMB and of the Ministries of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplishcd. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with


﻿80
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall establish and main-
tain separate accounts for the Project and shall cause such
accounts and the accounts of FMB relating to the Project
to be audited at least once a year by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association, and, unless the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, not Liter than four months
after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year transmit to the
Association certified copies of such accounts and a signed
copy of such auditor's report.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall cause all works, facili-
ties and equipment related to the Project to be adequately
maintained and from time to time shall cause all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof to be made in accordance with
sound agricultural and engineering practices.
SECTION 4.07. Except as the Borrower and Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to insure
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards inci-
dent to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely useable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.08. Except as the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall use the


﻿9
proceeds of payments which it receives from FMB under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and which are not cur-
rently required to service the Credit, for the purpose of
agricultural development within the Project Area. The
Borrower and the Association shall consult from time to
time as to the procedure for ensuring effective use of
such proceeds.
SECTION 4.09. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.10. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time during
the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may
declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be
due and payable immediately, and upon any such declara-
tion such principal shall become due and payable inmedi-
ately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTIoN 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 (k) of
the Regulations, the following additional event is specified:


﻿10
The Borrower shall have amended the Farmers Mar-
keting Ordinance, as amended in 1963, in such a way
as to substantially alter the organization, powers or
responsibilities of FMB, without the consent of the
Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
8.01 (b) of the Regulations: namely the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has bee. 'uly executed in form satisfactory to
the Association and has become fully effective and binding
on the parties thereto in accordance with its terms subject
only to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter within the meaning of Section 8.02 (b) of the Regu-
lations. to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnis: a to the Association: namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto,
ajid constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03, If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by April 10, 1968,
this Development Credit Agreement anl all the obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Asso-
ciation, after consideration of the reasons for the delay,
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such date.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973, or such other date as may from time to time be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box No. 53
Zomba, Malawi
Alternative address for cables:
Finsec
Zomba
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washingtwn, D.C.
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the pu.'rposes of Section 7.03 of the
Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿12
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By   /s/ N. W. MBEKEANI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By   /s/ J. BuRKE- KNAPP
Vice President


﻿0
13
SCHEDULE
Description of the Project
The Project is the implementation over five years of an
integrated series of measures to increase the efficiency of
agriculture in the Project Area and consists of the fol-
lowing:
I. The Provision of Agricultural Inputs and Credit in
Kind and Improvement of Marketing and Storage
Facilities. This includes:
(a) the provision of sprayers and insecticides and
credits to farmers for such goods and the super-
vision of the use and collection of the credits;
(b) the construction and equipping of seven perma-
nent produce markets; and.
(c) the provision of a new crop storage facility with
a capacity of about 540,000 cubic feet at the
Bangula cotton ginnery.
II. The Provision of Project Management, Administra-
tive Services and Staff Training. This includes:
(a) the establishment and staffing of a Project Or-
ganization at Ngabu within the Agricultural
Development Branch of the Department of Agri-
culture;
(b) tL i recruitment of qualified managerial, profes-
sional, technical and administrative staff and
the provision of in-service training;
(c) the construction, equipping and maintenance of
houses and offices for Project staff in the
Project Area;
(d) the purchase, operation and maintenance of
vehicles, machinery and equipment; and
0


﻿14
(e) the provision of administrative services.
III. The Provision of an adequate extension service to
insure the dissemination of required technical knowl-
edge leading to improved cultural practices and pest
control.
IV. The Provision of Required Infrastructure in the
Project Area. This includes:
(a) the drilling of about 156 working boreholes to
be operated by hand pumps to supply potable
water for domestic and farm use;
(b) the construction of about 160 miles of crop ex-
traction roads and improvement of 24 miles of
existing roads; and
(c) the demarcation of new plots on about 20,000
acres of arable land for settlement of new
families.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31,
1973.


