FILE Copy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Re.ort No. 289a-NIR
APPRAISAL OF
NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
NIGER
April 9, 1974
Western Africa Projects Department
Ports, Railways and Aviation Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = CFA franc (GFAF)
US$1.00       = CFAF 250
CFAF 1 million= US$4,o00
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                       British/US equivalent
1 meter (m)              .   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2  =  0.62 mile Cmi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)          =   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)     -  2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASECNA - Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne
en Afrique et a Madagascar
FIC    - Flight Information Center
ILS    - Instrument Landing System



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
STMJLARY  ...............................................  i  -  iii
1.  INTRODUCTION                        ...............................                                   1
2.  BACKGROUND                       ................................                                     3
A.    Economic  Setting   ..................................                                      3
B.    The  Transport  Sector   ..............................                                     3
C.    Aviation  in  Niger  .................................                                     4
D.    Air  Traffic  Forecasts   .............................                                    4
E.   ASECNA  ............................................                                         5
3.      THE  PROJECT   ...........................................                                        7
A.  Investment Program for Niarmey Airport .............                                          7
B.  Description of the Project ........................                                           7
C.   Cost  Estimates                         ....................................                9
D.   Execution               ...................              ......................   10
E.    Financing  and  Disbursements   ........                      ..       .............   10
F.   Environmental  Effects   .............................    11
4.      ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ...................................    12
A.    General  ...........................................   12
B.    Effects  of  the  Project  ............................   12
C.   Quantified  Benefits  to  Niger   .......................    13
D.    Project  Return  ....................................   14
E.    Other  Benefits   ....................................   14
5.      FINANCIAL  EVALUATION  ..................................   16
A.    Accounting   ........................................    16
B.    Audit  .............................................   16
C.    Tariffs   ...........................................    17
D.    Income  Accounts  ...................................    17
E.    Cash  Position  .....................................    20
6.      AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS   ................   21
This report has been prepared by Mlessrs. B. Bostrom (Economist), K. Ewing
(Aviation Engineer), and N. Petry (Financial Analyst).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.   Air Traffic Developments
2.   Investment Program and Financing Schedule
3.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.   Income Statement
5.   Debt Schedule
6.   Fixed Asset Schedule
7.   Sources and Applications of Funds
ANNEXES
1.   ASECNA
2.   Existing Facilities at Niamey Airport
3.   Details of Economic Evaluation
4.   Assumptions used in Financial Analysis
MAPS
1.   Niger - Location of Airports - IBRD 10640
2.  Niamey Airport - Layout of Facilities - IBRD 10641



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        As one of the largest landlocked countries in Africa, the Republic
of Niger is faced with formidable problems for both domestic and external
transport, and its economy is burdened with the high costs of such transport
and the long transit times involved. Several efforts are now underway to
improve facilities in neighboring countries -- for example, rehabilitation
of the Parakou-Malanville road in Dahomey, and development of land routes
through Nigeria -- and these are expected to help reduce the high transport
costs for exports and imports which Niger now has to bear.
ii.       Internal transport is mostly on the country's 8,000 km road system,
about half of which however consists merely of earth roads and tracks; only
about 500 km of the network are now paved. There is no railway. The remain-
ing needs of domestic traffic are met by services provided by Air Niger and
by air taxi operations to five airports in the country.
iii.      Aviation in Niger is centered on Niamey Airport which is the closest
to Europe of the major airports in West African countries south of the Sahara,
and which is on the main air routes and attractive as a transit stop. Over
the past five years, the number of transit passengers at Niamey has increased
at about 20% per annum, and the number of scheduled flights at about 10%,
partly because of increased cargo services. It is important to the country to
retain Niamey's share of the transit traffic, because although passengers
have little direct impact on revenues, landing charges particularly for large
aircraft, are very significant. The Government therefore proposes to modernize
and expand the facilities at Niamey Airport to assure its continued use by
international transit traffic, as well as to provide for future traffic growth
and to facilitate development generally.
iv.       A Master Plan for the development of Niamey Airport has been pre-
pared by the Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne en Afrique et
a Madagascar (ASECNA). This organization is a multi-national agency of
14 African states and France which was set up to control air navigat ln in
the area, and according to specific agreements between ASECNA and the coun-
tries concerned, to operate airports and other air services. ASECNA's budget
does not however cover construction of airport facilities, and such financ-
ing is therefore the sole responsibility of the individual Governments
concerned.
v.        The project now proposed for financing by the Association is an
integral part of ASECNA's Master Plan, and consists essentially of: (i)
strengthening the existing runway and taxiway; (ii) lengthening the existing



- ii -
runway by 200 m; (iii) construction of an additional parking position for
wide-bodied aircraft; (iv) improvements to the airfield lighting system; and
(v) replacement and relocation of the localizer of the Instrument Landing
System.
vi.       The project is estimated to cost a total of about IJS$5.9 million
equivalent, including taxes, with foreign exchange costs of US$3.5 million
(about 59%). The proposed Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent will cover 100%
of local and foreign exchange costs before taxes. Local taxes are estimated
at US$900,000 (about 15% of total cost). The above estimates are based on
detailed engineering studies carried out by ASECNA, and are considered
reasonable. Final engineering will be completed by ASECNA after project
financing has been arranged.
vii.      The Credit Agreement will be with the Government of Nigev, and the
Project Agreement with ASECITA who will be responsible for execution.   The
Government will make the credit available to ASECNA as if it were a loan for
a period of 25 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7-1/4%
per annum, capitalized during the construction period.   The Government has
agreed that it will enter into a special contract with ASECNA, acceptable
to the Association, by which ASECNA will carry out on the Government's behalf
the engineering, supervision, and management of the project, and the continued
operation of the airport. The draft contract is being prepared. Procurement
of civil works and equipment will be by international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Construction work is expected to
start in late 1974 and to be completed in about two years.
viii.     Niamev Airport does not function as a separate financial entity,
but ASECNA's accounting system is such that the financial status of the
Airport can be readilv determined at any time. The Government has agreed that
the tariff nolicv at Niamey Airport will be aimed at the following medium-term
objectives: (a) Government should require that revenue cover at least operat-
ing expenses, interest pavments, and the amort±zation of loans; having fulfilled
this requirement, then (b) airport operations should produce a reasonable sur-
plus which could be used for contributions to future investments (including
renlacements). Tfhis way, the airport will become profitable in 1981, and
the return on niet fixed assets will be positive by 1979; lhowever, both the
cash nosition and the profitability of the airport will improve rapidly
thereafter. Since surplus cash on the airport operations is not accumulated
wv an entitv of the airport, the Government agreed that (a) it will make
available or cause to be made available the funds necessary for completion
of the planne(d investment program, and (b) that it will make no major additional
Investment in liamev Airport facilities unless the Association has agreed both
to the investment itself and to the proposed method of its financing.
ix.       The quantified economic benefits of the project consist mainly of
income earned, and income losses avoided, from the retention and growth of
transit flights. In addition to improved aviation finances and employment at
the airport which would be assured bv continuation and growth of long-range
flights, there will also be other important economic advantages. The project
is expected to stimulate exports of meat and vegetables, products which,



- iii -
because of their perishable nature, rely on air transport; such exports will
indirectly give rise to economic activity at a level which would be signifi-
cantly lower without the advantage of sufficient air-cargo space. Based on
the quantified benefits, the economic rate of return of the project over the
life of the investment is 20%. This high rate of return is primarily due to
the high cost of alternative solutions and the heavy revenue losses that
would occur if the project were not carried out.
x.        The project is suitable for a Credit to the Government of Niger in
the amount of US$5.0 million equivalent. The Credit will be on standard IDA
terms, with the funds made available to ASECNA which will be responsible for
the execution of the project.






NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAI4EY INTEMIATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUJCTION
1.01      A phased development program for Niamey Airport has been identified
within a Master Plan drawn up by the Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation
Aerienne en Afrique et a Madagascar (ASECNA) which operates the airport under
an agreement with the Government of Niger. The main objective of the progranm
is to retain and improve the position of Niamey Airport as a transit nofnt.
At the same time, it will assure that Niger continues to be provided with
frequent and inexpensive air transport of passengers and cargo, a service
which is essential for the support and expansion of vital economic activities
of this landlocked country. The program calls for gradual improvements to
the airport in three phases over the period 1970-85; the first phase is
proposed for financing under the present project.
1.02      The project includes extension and improvement of the runway and
of the aircraft parking areas, and is estimated to cost US$5.9 million
equivalent, including US$900,000 equivalent in local taxes. The proposed
Credit of US$5.0 million will cover the estimated total project cost, exclud-
ing taxes, and will comprise all the foreign exchange (US$3.5 million) and
about 63% of the local currency required.
1.03      The proposed project will eventually be followed by a second phase
of further runway lengthening and more aircraft parking and taxiways, and
then by a third phase of similar extensions if and when required and justified
by traffic growth. Originally, ASECNA and the Government had envisaged im-
plementation of this second development phase in the 1970s. However, because
of recently stated airline requirements and the constrained finaricial situation
of the airport's operations, implementation of the second phase has not been
included in the program until about 1982. The Government has agreed that no
further major investment be undertaken during the period until 1982 unless
traffic develops more rapidly than now anticipated (para. 5.16).
1.04      The Government will be the Borrower of the proposed Credit, E t
ASECNA will control and disburse the funds. The Association will enter
into a Project Agreement with ASECNA for execution of the project and for
the management and operation of Niamey Airport.
1.05      Previous Bank Group lending in Niger's transport sector has consisted
of two Credits for highway improvements. The first of these (Credit 128--NIR,
US$6.12 million, September 1968) helped finance: (i) a four-year programi for
improvement of maintenance, including training of personnel, and (ii) feasi-
bility studies for about 300 km of roads, and subsequent detailed engineering
of those roads whose construction was found to be economically justified. The
program to eliminate the backlog of deferred maintenance has been satisfac-
torily completed, and training of local personnel is being done by consultants



-2-
BCEOM (France); a recently approved supplementary Credit of US$350,000 will
provide for a 12-month extension of this training. The second project (Credit
231-NIR, US$5.7 million, January 1971) includes construction of about 150 km
on three of the roads studied under Credit 128-NIR, as well as feasibility
studies for a further 170 km, again to be followed by detailed engineering
for construction of those found economically justified. Construction, under
this project of the Niamey-Tillabery road (115 km) is completed. Construction
of the remaining two roads (28 km) has started and is expected to be completed
by the end of 1974. All the laboratory and traffic-counting equipment has been
procured. The recently completed feasibility studies of the Niamey-Baleyara and
and the Zinder-Bande roads show that the first one will not be justified before
1981. The detailed engineering of the second road is due to start soon and is
likely to lead to a road construction project to be financed by IDA. Although
the total foreign exchange cost of the project expressed in CFAF is new esti-
mated to be about CFAF 130 million ($650,000) less than at appraisal, the
dollar cost of the project is now estimated at $850,000 more than at appraisal,
wholly due to currency realignments. Consequently, an increase in the amount
of the credit from $5.7 million to $6.55 million has been recently approved by
the Executive Directors.
1.06      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. B. Bostrom (Economist), K. Ewing (Aviation Engineer), and
F. Rosenfeld (Financial Analyst, consultant) which visited Niger in January
1973, as well as on subsequent studies carried out by ASECNA and submitted
to the Association in June 1973.



2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Niger is one of thle largest landlocked countries in Africa, and as
such, it is faced with formidable problems for both domestic and external
transport. About 90% of its total land area of over a million km2 is desert,
consisting of a low plateau in the Sahara and sub-Sahara regions in the north.
The population is therefore largely concentrated in the extreme south of the
country where the land is moderately fertile, and rainfall is sufficient for
the cultivation of millet, groundnuts, and cotton. The total population of
about 4 million has been increasing at about 2.7% per annum. The latest esti-
mate of per capita Gross National Product (GNP) is about US$90, which repre-
sents a slight decrease over the past ten years, partly as a result of the
recent drought and the high rate of population growth.
2.02      The economy depends mainly on agriculture which consists of field
cultivation in the fertile south, and livestock-raising in the northern
desert. Irrigation along the Niger River has also permitted the production
of fruits and vegetables for shipment by air to Europe in the winter season;
development of this promising industry is highly dependent on the availability
of aircraft space and of cheap freight rates. Similarly, reliable air trans-
port is required for the export of meat to neighboring countries and to Europe.
B.  The Transport Sector
2.03      Niger's economy is burdened with high transport costs and long transit
times, both problems a result of the great distances within the country and to
the nearest ocean ports. External transport costs can be reduced only if
facilities in neighboring countries are improved. The Bank Group is assisting
in this effort through the ongoing rehabilitation of the Parakou-Malanville
road (320 km) in Dahomey (Credit 415-DA, US$11.8 million, June 1973), and
through development of Nigeria's transport infrastructure which is utilized by
Niger's central and eastern regions as access to the ports of Nigeria (mainly
Lagos) by road and rail. Towards the same objective, full-scale trials of
seasonal river transport by barges on the Niger River are being carried out
with financing from the Canadian International Development Agency (CTDA);
the results of these tests are however not yet fully known.
2.04      Initernal transport is mostly by road.  There are about 7,900 kmh of
roads in the country, of which about 500 km are paved. The rest of the roads
are of low stzuidard, with about half the total length of the network being
earth roads and tracks.
2.05      Transport by camel is still very significant in large areas o' Lhe
country. This is especially so in the sparsely populated north where traris-
port requirements are limited, and where the volume of freight carried is



-4 -
too low to justify the infrastructure costs of modern highways, even though
the operating cost per ton-km by camel transport is estimated at about two
or three times higher than for trucking.
C.   Aviation in Niger
2.06      Aviation in Niger is the responsibility of the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport, and Urbanism, whose functions under the Directorate of
Civil Aviation are performed almost entirely by the local ASECNA representa-
tive.
2.07      Air services are centered on Niamey Airport which is the closest to
Europe of the major airports in West African countries south of the Sahara,
and which is on the main air routes from Europe to Lagos, Abidjan, and Accra.
Other flights to points further south in Africa also pass over Niamey, and
many of these make transit stops there. International services to Niger are
provided by four foreign airlines and by Air Afrique, a multi-national company
of which Niger is a shareholder. In 1972, international traffic through
Niamey Airport totalled about 80,000 passengers (slightly less than half of
them intransit) and about 4,650 tons of freight and mail. The traffic gene-
rated by Niger alone is insufficient to warrant regular scheduled operations
by large jet aircraft. However, as a transit stop in combination with other
centers, Niamey Airport does become attractive to air carriers.
2.08      Internal air transport is served by Air Niger which has an undupli-
cated route mileage of about 2,600 km, and also by some air taxi operations.
Scheduled services are provided to five airports in the country (Map IBRD
10640). Nevertheless, the volume of this domestic traffic remains relatively
small, amounting in 1972 to some 9,000 passengers and 300 tons of freight.
2.09      One of ASECNA's Flight Information Centers (FIC) is located at
Niamey Airport, and serves flights over Niger as well as over several other
West African states. The main regional school for technical training of all
ASECNA staff (air traffic controllers, meteorological personnel, etc.) is
also established in Niamey. ASECNA therefore has a total of about 340 per-
manent staff members (of whom 50 are expatriates) and some 150 trainees
located in Niamey for operation of the airport and at the school.
D.   Air Traffic Forecasts
2.10      As part of a feasibility study for the Government of Niger, ASECNA
prepared forecasts of passenger, cargo, and aircraft traffic for the period
1973-85 based on past air traffic trends, forecasts prepared by international
air carriers, and studies by international organizations. The pre-appraisal
niission studied these forecasts, and considers them reasonable. However, for
bothi the economic and financial projections, some modifications were necessary
(paras. 2.12 and 5.08). Table 1 summarizes past and projected traffic.



2.11      The growth of business passenger traffic (now the major component
of international traffic) will depend on the development of Niger's economy
and on the expansion of trade. Tourist traffic now accounts for a minor share,
but may grow somewhat faster in the future. Total international passenger
traffic has been increasing recently at about 11.5% per annum. Since 1967,
the number of transit passengers at Niamey has been growing at an average
yearly rate of about 20%, and the number of scheduled flights at about 10.6%,
the latter rate attributable mainly to increased cargo flights.  The proposed
project will assure retaining Niamey's share of West Africa/Europe air traffic,
and so a continued growth of 12% per year in the number of transit passengers
has been projected; these passengers have little direct impact on revenues,
but landing charges, particularly for large aircraft, are very significant.
The number of flights will grow less rapidly at about 6.8% per annum, as
a result of larger aircraft being put into use (para. 4.05).
2.12      For projection purposes, air cargo was divided into two categories
with separate growth characteristics. Deplaned freight shows a rapid growth
appropriate to the development of the economy; it is however surpassed by
the more rapidly increasing volumes of enplaned freight, particularly meat,
vegetable, and fruit exports.
E.   ASECNA
2.13      ASECNA was formed by the Treaty of St. Louis of December 12, 1959
between France and 14 African states, including Niger. This treaty laid down
three main tasks for ASECNA, and defined the method of financing for each of
them:
(a) to control air navigation over the territories of the
African member states, and approach and landing aids at
the main airports;
(b) to manage and operate, if requested, ground facilities
of member states' airports; and
(c) to construct, if requested, airport facilities for its
member states.
2.14      The total cost of ASECNA's operations in its member countries is
about CEAF 9 billion (US$36 million equivalent) a year. This is finan, d
by receipts from airlines (40%), and subsidies from France (34%) and ot-er
inember governments (26%). ASECNA's operations require subsidies principally
oni tei grounds that the cost of providing aerial navigation is subsidized
throughout the world, aid in the absence of a clhange in this universal system
of subsidies, ASECNA is not able to charge the airlines for all services provided.
,SECNA's budget does not cover construction of airport facilities, and sich fi-
nancing is therefore the sole responsibility of the individual GovernmexiLs
concerned. (Annex 1).



- 6 -
2.15      Construction of the proposed project will be undertaken by ASECNA
under the terms of a special contract between ASECNA and the Government.
This will be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
2.16      ASECNA is governed by a Board of Directors, designated by the
member states, who determine general policy. Day-to-day running of the Agency
is in the hands of the Director-General who is assisted by experts drawn
from the various states. The headquarters of the Agency are in Dakar (Senegal),
and there is a Representative of ASECNA in each member country. The represen-
tative has his own technical staff to deal with local matters, and he can call
on the expertise of Headquarters staff. The organization of ASECNA in well
conceived, and the staff is competent and effective. Relations between ASECNA
and the Government of Niger are excellent.



-7-
3. THE PROJECT
A. Investment Program for Niamey Airport
3.01      The current investment program represents the first phase of the
long-term development plan prepared by ASECNA for improvements to the airport
(para. 1.01). The program includes extension of the existing runway, instal-
lation of new lighting, and construction of additional apron areas, improve-
ments which are expected to provide for the needs of the new larger jet equip-
ment (primarily DC-10 aircraft) to be introduced. These developments have all
been included in an ASECNA study of May 1973. The program is to cover the
period 1974-82, and is expected to cost about US$8 million equivalent; details
of the items included in it, and the expected sources of financing, are given
in Table 2. A listing of the existing facilities at Niamey Airport and their
present condition is given in Annex 2; their layout is shown in Map IBRD 10641.
B. Description of the Project
3.02      The proposed project comprises most of the items in the investment
program abdvementioned. It will provide for such improvements to existing
facilities as are necessary to enable large, modern, long-range aircraft to
operate safely and economically from Niamey Airport. These improvements are
as follows:
(i) strengthening the existing runway and taxiway;
(ii) lengthening the existing runway from 2,570 m to 2,770 m,
with a turning area and overshoot (stopway);
(iii) widening and strengthening a portion of the existing
apron, and adding one additional aircraft parking position;
(iv) providing blast protection on shoulders;
(v) replacing and relocating the localizer of the Instru-
ment Landing System (ILS), using new equipment;
(vi) providing high-intensity runway lighting equipment and
a high-intensity approach lighting system; and
(vii) providing meteorological equipment -- a ceilometer to
determine cloud and ceiling heights, and a transmisso-
meter to measure visibility on the runway.
3.03      The existing runway, taxiway, and part of the apron are designed
to support aircraft only of the B-707 and DC-8 categories, so that following
the advent in 1970 of the heavier DC-8-63 series, pavement damage has become
evident. It is therefore necessary to repair the existing damage and streng-
then the pavement to prevent further failures. However, since still heavier



-8-
aircraft like the DC-10 have now been introduced into service, and B-747
service is anticipated shortly at Niamey Airport, it is proposed to strengthen
the facilities sufficiently to handle these newer and heavier types.
3.04      The existing runway length of 2,570 m imposes severe load restric-
tions on DC-8-63 or heavier aircraft enroute to Europe, and all the available
aircraft capacity cannot be utilized. These restrictions would be greatly
reduced if the runway is lengthened by 200 m, and an overshoot (stopway) of
200 m provided. However, on a non-stop trip to Paris, for example, the DC-8-
63 would still have a restriction of approximately 5,000 kg (11,000 lb), and
this would reduce its capacity payload from 30,000 kg to 25,000 kg. New
generation ai-craft such as the DC-10 and B-747 which are expected to gradually
replace the older DC-8 category are similarly handicapped, but not so seri-
ously. The runway length could be further increased at a future date as war-
ranted by traffic growth.
3.05      The existing apron has been enlarged from time to time with widely
differing strength characteristics. The cost of removing older portions of
the apron and replacing them with construction of adequate strength is not as
attractive as building new pavement. Accordingly, it is proposed to strengthen,
by overlay, the most recently built position, and to build one new position
for heavy aircraft. The older sections would be left in their present con-
dition to meet the increased demand by lighter aircraft.
3.06      Since the engines of the new large aircraft overhang the pavement,
blast protection will be provided at the edges of the apron, taxiway, and
runway, so as to prevent erosion, blowing dust, and ingestion by the engines
of deleterious particles. The latter problem normally necessitates an engine
overhaul which can cost as much as US$250,000.
3.07      Visibility at Niamey Airport is severely restricted by dust haze
during the dry season and by rain during the wet season, so a partial Instru-
ment Landing System (ILS) was installed to facilitate landings. This system
is a precision approach aid considered necessary at all airports which handle
large jet aircraft. The existing system now needs to be improved by replac-
ing and relocating the localizer. At the same time, a high-intensity approach
lighting system and high-intensity runway lights, both essential components
of a complete ILS system, will be installed.
3.08      Where runway visibility is restricted, it is essential that the
ceiling for vertical visibility and the runway visual range or horizontal
visibility should be known and provided to the pilot and air traffic control
to facilitate landings and takeoffs, and to meteorological stations for flight
planning. Reliable information of this type is provided by ceilometers and
transmissomieters, and these instruments will be installed as part of the
proposed project.
3.09      The project does not require that provision be made for training,
as ASECNA is fully equipped for and capable of handling this function (para.
2.09).



- 9 -
3.10      ASECNA had requested that construction of an additional taxiway
from the runway to the apron be carried out as part of the project. However,
the Association determined that, considering all cost factors and in view of
the traffic load forecast, the taxiway although useful, would not be essential.
Also, the Association concluded that the taxiway would be more beneficial if
it were located in a different position, and included in a future program.
Its construction has therefore not been included in the present project.
C. Cost Estimates
3.11      The project is estimated to cost about US$5.9 million equivalent,
with foreign exchange costs amounting to about US$3.5 million (59%). The
breakdown of project costs is shown below:
CFA Francs (Millions)            US$ ('000)         Foreign
as %
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   of Total
A. Extend runway
and apron        103    126       229      412    504         916       55
B. Strengthen exist-
ing runway and
apron            291    346       637    1,164  1,384      2,548        54
C.  Field lighting      43    130       173       172    520        692        75
D.  Navigational aids  12       38       50        48    152        200        76
Sub-Total        449    640    1,089    1,796  2,560        4,356       59
E.  Engineering and
Supervision of
items A-D (about
5%)                 22     32        54        88    128        216        59
F. Contingencies
Physical (10%)   45      64       109       180    256        436       59
Price (20%)       90    128       218       360    512        872       59
TOTAL             606    864    1,470    2,424  3,456        5,880        59
3.12      The above estimates of construction costs are considered reasonable
on the basis that bids will be received in 1974, and that work will start late
in 1974. The estimates are based on detailed engineering studies by ASECNA
which has extensive knowledge of the site conditions and of recent similar
contract pricing. A physical contingency of 10% has been included which is
considered adequate at this stage in view of ASECNA's great familiarity with
the airport and with local conditions. The 20% price escalation during the



- 10 -
construction period has been established on the basis of ASECNA's experience
with similar projects in the region, and allows for increases in construction
costs as a result of an energy crisis. The estimates of 5% for engineering
and supervision are lower than usual since this work will be performed by
ASECNA staff rather than by outside consultants (para. 3.14).
D. Execution
3.13      The Credit Agreement will be with the Government of Niger, and the
Project Agreement with ASECNA. The Government will enter into a special
contract with ASECNA, acceptable to the Association, by which ASECNA will
carry out on the Government's behalf the engineering, supervision, and manage-
ment of the project, and the continued operation of the airport.
3.14      The engineering required for the project is being performed by
ASECNA's own staff which is competent and experienced. Concerning construc-
tion supervision, IDA has learned from ASECNA that its normal practice is
to have the contractor share in the inspection, for example, materials test-
ing work would be arranged and paid by the contractor. However, such arrange-
ments are likely to lead to conflict of interest and be abused, and are there-
fore not considered satisfactory. Accordingly, ASECNA will be responsible
for carrying out and paying for all supervision and inspection services, and
will not in any way delegate to the contractor any part of the responsibility
for project supervision and inspection.
3.15      The project is expected to provide employment for about 200 persons
in addition to those who normally work at the airport. In view of the limited
size of the project, only one civil works contract is contemplated. The con-
tract will be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Procurement of equipment for the airfield lighting
and for navigational and meteorological aids will also follow Bank Group pro-
cedures for international competitive bidding.
E. Financing and Disbursements
3.16      The proposed Credit of US$5.0 million will cover about 85% of the
estimated total cost of the project (about 100% of the cost excluding taxes),
and will comprise all the foreign exchange (US$3.5 million) and US$1.5 million
equivalent (about 63%) of the local costs. The remainder, about US$900,000
equivalent will be local taxes. The proposed Credit would be disbursed against:
(i) 85% of total expenditures for civil works, design, and supervision; and
(ii) 100% of foreign exchange costs or 85% of total costs for procurement
equipment and its installation. An estimated schedule of disbursements from
the Credit is shown in Table 3. Any unused balance of the Credit may be made
available, after consultation with the Association, for the purchase of addi-
tional goods or services.



- 11 -
3.17      For legal and administrative reasons it has not been feasible to
impose a direct repayment obligation upon ASECNA, but the Credit will be
treated in the airport's accounts as if it were a loan for a period of 25
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7-1/4% per annum,
capitalized during the construction period. ASECNA will make the correspond-
ing service payments to the Government from the revenues of the airport
operations.
F.   Environmental Effects
3.18      The existing air traffic imposes little noise problem at Niamey
Airport. The approach and departure paths are largely over uninhabited areas
which, in view of their distance from the city of Niamey, are likely to re-
main in that state. Present lands under airport control, and administered by
ASECNA, are adequate for long term growth.



- 12 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      Niamey Airport occupies a strategic position on the air routes
between Europe and the coast of West Africa. However, because of the in-
sufficient length and deteriorated condition of the runway there is a distinct
risk that the airport will lose its attractiveness as a transit ston; this is
because the penalty imposed on the payload of modern jet aircraft: may soon
make such a stop financially unrewarding as well as unsafe for the new gene-
ration of larger aircraft now being introduced into intercontinental service.
4.02      In this situation, there are two choices open for the airport:
eithler to keep up with the requirements dictated by the evolution of air
transport, or to eventually drop out of the international network, and main-
tain high-cost feeder service to a neighboring international airport. The
proposed project will provide Niger with the benefits and economic opportuni-
ties associated with improved service, and will ensure avoidance of the second
course of events as stated above, which would otherwise become inevitable by
the end of the decade.
4.03      'bre than half of the project funds will be used for rehabilitating
the runway, taxiway, and apron. A further 18% will be spent on items to
assure aircraft safety. The remaining funds will be devoted to lengthening
the runway so as to increase permissible payload (12%), building a new apron
(12%), and providing blast protection for both runway and apron (5%).  Reha-
bilitation of the pavement is required because the surface is deteriorating
under the weight of large DC-8 aircraft presently in use. Similarly, some
of the aircraft safety equipment must also be considered as replacement items,
although the equipment will at the same time help provide better service.
B.   Effects of the Project
4.04      Without the project, payload limitations would persist on the impor-
tant stage lengths, and continuing deterioration of the runway surface would
eventually make the airport unsuitable even for the type of aircraft which
now use it. Niamey would then have to be served mostly on a feeder-route
basis by smaller, higher-cost aircraft with lower capacities and at increased
freight charges: this situation would probably eliminate any possibilities
for agricultural exports. In addition, Niamey Airport would lose much of the
revenues from user charges which are now its main source of income.
4.05      With the project, Niamey could retain and expand current transit
traffic which involves frequent direct service to and from Europe by large
aircraft capable of operating at much lower unit costs (ton-mile and passenger-
mile) than those now in service. It is not yet certain how much the lower
unit costs of larger aircraft will eventually be reflected in lower freight



- 13 -
rates, but the avoidance of rate increases, inevitable if the newer aircraft
cannot use Niamey, can be considered a benefit. Another important benefit
would be the expanded freight capacity for marketing local products abroad,
and for stimulating the development of agricultural and livestock production.
4.06      The assessment of benefits hinges on the fact that there is no
economically feasible solution between full execution of the project and
progressive deterioration of the runway with eventual closing of the airport
to jet aircraft. Indeed, even to keep the airport open only for the type of
aircraft presently used there, resurfacing and strengthening the runway will
be necessary, as well as replacement of most of the equipment. To do this
will require a minimum investment of between 60-70% of the project cost,
but this would not ensure growth of transit traffic or even maintaining the
present level of such traffic once the larger carriers come into service. The
airport would, under these conditions, have no secure source of increasing
revenues to pay for this smaller investment, and would moreover not enjoy any
of the benefits associated with greater freight capacity.
4.07      Rehabilitation of the present facilities as the first stage of a
two-phase project, deferring both extension of the runway and building of
a new apron, would not be a practical or an economic alternative. In such a
case, the cost of each segment of the project would increase considerably.
Also, extension of the runway cannot be deferred by more than a year or two
beyond the scheduled date of project completion, or losses of transit traffic
would result. The first large aircraft (DC-10) are being introduced now, and
completion of the substitution process is expected by 1980.
C.   Quantified Benefits to Niger
4.08      Annex 3 gives details of the economic evaluation.  The main direct
benefit of the project is the increased airport income which Niger would
earn from the growth of transit flights. Since the principal airport charges
are progressively related to aircraft weight, much additional revenue is
derived from an equal number of landings by larger instead of smaller aircraft.
The projected traffic increase would probably be accommodated simply by the
introduction of larger aircraft with only minor increases in flight frequency,
so the higher revenues have been calculated on the basis of these minor in-
creases, and without any change in the rate structure. The gradual intr luc-
tion of new aircraft to replace existing types is likely to lead to a ne,
gain in landing charge revenue of CFAF 99 million (US$495,000) by 1981
(Annex 3).
4.09      Benefits expected from the project derive as much from the avoidance
of losses that would occur without it, as from positive returns to the pro-
posed investment. This reflects the fact that Niger is confronted with the
technological demands imposed by the evolution of air transport; it must
therefore either provide an airport with characteristics comparable to the
other busier international airports in West Africa, or suffer eviction from
the intercontinental network.



- 14 -
4.10      Without the project, Niamey Airport could not increase its revenue
from landing fees; rather, it would lose this income proportionately to the
phasing-out of intercontinental flights as larger aircraft are put into ser-
vice. This loss of revenue would amount to about CFAF 46 million in 1976,
and would reech about CFAF 117 million in 1981 (Annex 3). Savings in opera-
ting costs associated with the abovementioned phasing-out would be negligible.
4.11      In addition to this loss of revenue, Niger would eventually be
forced to incur the cost of running a feeder service, using small aircraft to
connect with a neighboring international airport. The cost of such a service
would amount to not less than about CFAF 212 million by 1981 (Annex 3); the
calculation has been based on the distance to Ouagadougou (Upper Volta), the
nearest airport, but since traffic density there is low, the feeder service
would possibly have to be to Abidjan (Ivory Coast) or Lagos (Nigeria), raising
costs in either case by not less than 50%.
D.   Project Return
4.12      On the above basis, the economic return of the project over 20 years
would be 20%. Even with a 25% decrease in the benefit streams, the rate of
return remains above 15%.
E.   Other Benefits
4.13      The abovestated rate of return is conservative, since many unquanti-
fied benefits would arise from the airport improvement and extension. Most
of the quantified benefits of the project stem from losses avoided, but some
other benefits discussed below are more positive in nature.
4.14      First, the introduction of larger aircraft will have a significant
effect on the development of rates and fares. Unit costs have increased by
about 7% annually over the past few years, and the productivity improvement
of about 20-30% which normally results from introduction of large-capacity
aircraft is essential if rate and fare increases are to be avoided. With the
project, Niger may be expected to obtain at least constant rates. Considering
current export trends, avoidance of such increases to freight rates would
yield a benefit of not less than about CFAF 30 million by 1976, increasing
by about 6-8% thereafter. However, because of uncertainties in the airlines'
pricing policies, these benefits have not been quantified in calculating the
expected rate of return on the project.
4.15      Introduction of the new generation of larger aircraft on the main
routes will result in substantial savings in unit operating costs (from which
must be deducted the proposed increases in landing fees). Niger benefits
from these cost savings through its participation in Air Afrique, a multi-
national airline which carries about half the country's traffic, and which is
introducing DC-10 aircraft on the route through Niamey. Niger's 7% share in
the airline would assure an equivalent share in the savings to Air Afrique,
amounting to about CFAF 10 million by 1976, and increasing by about 8% there-
after (Annex 3).



- 15 -
4.16      The availability of increased freight capacity is an important
inducement for export production. Many of the products exported by air are
perishable, and availability of carrying capacity for increasing production
is not presently guaranteed, mainly because the deteriorated state and insuf-
ficient length of the runway impose a heavy load penalty on aircraft.
4.17      Employment benefits of the project are rather indirect.  Most of the
proposed airport improvement is related to aircraft use rather than to pas-
senger- and cargo-handling, so that apart from the construction work itself,
the immediate direct impact on employment is quite small. On the other hand,
since the labor-intensive production involved in several export products is
so dependent on improved air services, there is significant indirect employment
generated by the airport improvement. Another factor to be considered is the
probable drop in airport employment which would occur in the absence of an
airport capable of handling the new generation of long-range jet aircraft.
AMECNA staff at Niamey number almost 500, and there are also a few hundred
Nigeriens whose employment (customs, freight-handling, fueling, catering,
shop attendants, etc.) is closely geared to the type and volume of traffic
through Niamey Airport.
4.18      The proposed project will also have a favorable impact on the Niamey
slaughterhouse and on cattle-raising in general. Palletization and cold sto-
rage facilities financed by the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) are
presently under construction at the airport, and as soon as they become opera-
tional, the returns from meat exports should be greatly enhanced. Also the
profitability of costly investments undertaken for irrigation for the produc-
tion of fresh vegetables will depend upon the existence of adequate facilities
for export by air.
4.19      Another important benefit is the increased safety which would
result from rehabilitation and lengthening of the runway, and from installa-
tion of a modern instrument landing system.



- 16 -
5. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
5.01      While the economic merits of the proposed project are substantial,
the projected financial performance of Niamey Airport over the next few years
does not fully reflect these benefits because Niger is forced by circumstances
beyond its control to invest in airport improvements somewhat ahead of its
own specific demands. These special circumstances must be kept in mind when
reviewing the financial aspects of the project.
A.   Accounting
5.02      Accounting for Niamey Airport is the responsibility of ASECNA whose
accounting staff is well qualified and competent. As mentioned previously
(para. 2.13), ASECNA has three distinct tasks which are accounted for and
funded in different ways. These are as follows:
(a)  The navigational control center which is located in
Niamey and forms part of facilities financed by the
15 member states of ASECNA. Only part of the services
provided by this control center relate to Niamey Air-
port, and only part of the cost is borne by the Govern-
ment of Niger.
(b)  The ground facilities of airports in Niger which are
operated and maintained by ASECNA for account of the
Government of Niger, with France participating in the
costs of the minor airports. Accounts are kept on a
country-wide basis. Only part of the cost relates to
Niamey Airport.
(c)  Capital investment in Niamey Airport ground facilities
which are carried out by ASECNA for account of the
Government of Niger, and for which separate accounts
are kept by ASECNA.
5.03      The system is essentially budgetary, and it does not report the
true costs of operation of any particular airport taking into account depre-
ciation. However, ASECNA is able to extract from its accounts all direct
costs concerning Niamey Airport, and is also able to calculate the proportion
of indirect costs and depreciation appropriate to the operations of the air-
port. ASECNA will produce annually pro forma profit and loss and source and
application of funds statements for Niamey Airport in a form acceptable to the
Association.
B. Audit
5.04      Audit of ASECNA's accounts is carried out by an "Agent Comptable"
appointed by the Government of France. His grade, promotion, and pension are
decided by his Minister, and he is able to exercise independent judgement.



- 17 -
5.05      The "Agent Comptable"' has a staff that is well qualified and compe-
tent, and he will be prepared to certify the annual proforma profit and
loss and source and application of funds statements mentioned above (para.
5.03). On this basis the Association is satisfied that there will be no need
for further audit of ASECNA's financial statements.
C.  Tariffs
5.06      The tariff policy for Niamey Airport has the following medium-term
objectives:
(a) that revenue shall cover at least operating expenses,
interest payments, and the amortization of loans;
having fulfilled this requirement, then
(b) that airport operations shall produce a reasonable
surplus which could be used for contributions to
future investments (including replacements).
5.07      The minimum financial requirements as developed below would then
be as follows:
(i) an operating ratio (before depreciation) of 60%
or less in 1978 and of less than 55% as from 1981; and
(i)  a return on net fixed assets of at least 7-1/4% from
the fifth year after completion of the investment,
i.e. from 1982.
To achieve these objectives it will be necessary to increase revenue from
such as landing fees (accounting for about 72% of total revenue), passenger
service charges and cargo charges (paras. 5.08-5.10).
D. Income Accounts
5.08      Projections of the income accounts as prepared by ASECNA and adjusted
by the appraisal mission (see Annex 4) result in a forecast for the net income
and the cash flow for operations at Niamey Airport. It should be noted that
these projections are based on present tariffs (including a recent increase of
the passenger service charge from CFAF 1,500 to CFAF 2,500) and certain other
tariff modifications (para. 5.10).
5.09      Without tariff modifications operational cash deficits could be
expected for the next four years. It was therefore necessary to explore how
the financial position could be improved. There are three available measures
by which this can be done, namely:



- 18 -
(i)  aircraft landing tariffs could be raised by 10%, which would
improve profitability and the airport's cash position in the
long run. Any upward revision of landing charges is restricted
by how much such a revision will influence the substantial
transit traffic which Niamey Airport presently enjoys. Landing
charges at Niamey are now among the highest in the world,
and are already 20% more than those of the neighboring West
African countries. Any substantial increase in these charges
could therefore result in a drop in transit traffic, which
presently generates about one-third of total revenue. Increases
in tariffs can therefore only be small, i.e. in the order of
not more than about 10%. A 10% increase in landing charges
implemented after completion of the project would yield between
1974 and 1978 some CFAF 80 million;
(ii) the Government could levy a handling charge on all goods
imported through Niamey Airport, and/or it could increase
the airport tax for departing passengers. Concerning the
former, a few countries have introduced handling charges
ranging between US$2 and US$20 per ton. Assuming that by
1975 a charge of US$20 per ton were imposed at Niamey, the
additional revenue generated between 1975 and 1978 would
amount to only about CFAF 35 million. A departure tax
on passengers would yield greater revenue, but since the
airport already levies a very stiff charge of US$7.50 per
passenger, which is to be raised to US$12.50 from April 1974,
any further substantial increase would appear unfeasible; and
(iii)   the Association could agree to a modification of the method
of recovering the capital investment stemming from the proposed
Credit. This could be justified on the grounds that Niamey
Airport, because of exogenous developments in air transport
beyond its control, is forced to build ahead of demand, giving
it excess capacity for several years to come. A possible
solution would be to provide for a somewhat longer grace
period and to capitalize interest - or part of the interest -
during the first few years. Table 4 shows that, once the
initial excess capacity stage has been overcome, the income
position of Niamey Airport can be expected to improve rapidly.
The provisions suggested above would result in an improvement
of the airport's cash position over the period 1975-76 by
about CFAF 107 million.
5.10      The Government agreed that the following measures would be undertaken:
(i)  a 10% increase in landing fees in addition to the revised
passenger charge (para. 5.08);
(ii) a US$20 per ton handling charge on imports;



- 19 -
(iii) or other measures yielding income equivalent to (i) and
(ii) above; and
(iv) a grace period of five years for amortization, interest
during construction (1975/76) entirely capitalized.
The project income accounts, including the suggested interest measures for
such accounts and the recommended increase in charges, are given in Table 4
and summarized below:
(in CFAF millions)
Annual                                     Operating Ratio  Return on Net
Net Income                      Cumulative   before Depre-   fixed assets
Year    (Loss)    Annual Cash Flow  Cash Flow        ciation (%)          (%)
1973     (91)             (13)           (13)           92                 _
1974     (61)              (40)           (53)          76                 _
1975     (68)              55              2            69                 -
1976     (71)               76             78           65                 -
1977    (119)              31             109           60                 -
1978    (107)              42            151            58                 -
1979     (84)              31            182            56                1.1
1980     (22)              76            258            51               4.9
1981       7               67            325            50                7.0
1982      52              157            482            48               10.5
The table shows that, with the suggested measures, the airport will become
fully profitable in 1981. The return on net fixed assets will be positive
by 1979, and both the cash position and the profitability of the airport will
improve rapidly thereafter. The Niger Government will make available tc
ASECNA, as the executing and management agency for the airport, a sum equal
to the IDA Credit (CFAF 1,250 million). Interest during the construction
period (1975-76) will be capitalized. Interest payments to the Government,
drawn from airport revenues, will commence in 1977 and repayment of principal
(including capitalized interest) will commence in 1979. The full annual debt
service requirement from the latter year will amount to CFAF 130 millions which
net airport receipts should be able to cover without difficulty, as demonstrated
in the above table.



- 20 -
E.   Cash Position
5.11      The sources and applications of funds are detailed in Table 7 and
summarized below; they are based on the proposed investment program considered
essential for the successful operation of Niamey Airport (Table 2).
(CFAF millions)
1973 - 82
Sources
Internally generated funds                                   1,632
Contributions (by Government, ASECNA, and
Concessionaires)                                             311
Borrowings                                                   1,382
Total                                                     3,325
Applications
Capital expenditure                                          1,796
Debt service                                                 1,047
Total                                                     2 843
Increase in Cash                                               482
5.12      Although as shown above cash is increased by CFAF 482 million during
the period considered, additional short-term financing totalling about CFAF
53 million (US$212,000) will still be required by 1974 (Table 7). The Govern-
ment will arrange to secure this additional financing.under existing agreements
with ASECNA.
5.13      An analysis of the incremental cash flow resulting from implemen-
tation of the project reveals that the investor (the Government of Niger) will,
under conservative assumptions, obtain a financial rate of return of about 9%
on the investment required by the project. This indicates that even though
the project will not immediately result in a significant yearly cash increase,
its implementation is financially justified, even considering the minimum
financial targets set out in para. 5.10 above.



- 21 -
5.14      A sensitivity analysis shows that the cash flow is easily affected
by changes in the traffic forecast. A reduction by about four weekly landings,
representing approximately 13% of present traffic, would already require con-
tinuous government subsidies to cover the resulting cash deficits. This again
serves to demonstrate that tariff revisions should be carefully implemented
in order not to adversely affect any transit traffic.
5.15      The actual cash flow is governed by the provisions of the Treaty of
St. Louis concerning ASECNA (see Annex 1), and will not be the same as shown
in para. 5.11 because airport operations are only a part of total ASECNA
operations in Niger. However, the net financial gain (or loss) of the pro-
ject as shown in the proforma cash flow will accrue to the Government of
Niger, and to that full extent will affect the Government's financial position.
5.16      Since surplus cash on the operations of Niamey Airport is not in
fact accumulated by an entity of the airport, the Government agreed that:
(a) it will miake available or cause to be made available the funds necessary
for completion of the investment program shown in Table 2 (paras. 5.11 and
5.12); and (b) that it will make no major additional investment in Niamey
Airport facilities unless the Association has agreed both to the investment
itself and to the proposed method of its financing.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations on the proposed Credit, agreement was reached
on the following items:
(i)  a special contract between the Government and ASECNA for the
design and supervision of construction acceptable to the
Association will be executed. (paras. 2.15 and 3.13);
(ii) ASECNA, rather than the contractor, will be responsible for
carrying out and paying for all supervision and inspection
services under the project (para. 3.14);
(iii)  procurement for civil works and equipment will follow the
procedures of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines (para. 3.15);
(iv) the Government and ASECNA will meet the balance of the local
costs of the project not being financed under the proposed
Credit (para. 3.16 and 5.16)
(v) ASECNA will produce annual proforma profit and loss and source
and application of funds statements for Niamey Airport in a
form acceptable to the Association (para. 5.03);



- 22 -
(vii)  the objectives of the tariff policy for Niamey Airport, namely
that Government should require that revenue cover at least
operating expenses, interest payments, and the amortization of
loans; and that airport operations should produce a reasonable
surplus which could be used for contributions to future invest-
ments (including replacements) (para. 5.06);
(viii)  improvement of the airport's financial situation in the immediate
future by the following measures:
(a) extended grace period,
(b) capitalized interest during construction,
(c) increasing landing tariffs by 10%,
(d) levying a handling charge on goods imported through
Niamey airport,
(e) or other tariff measures yielding revenue equivalent
to (c) and (d) above.
(ix) the Government will arrange to secure the additional finan-
cing needed to complete the investment program (para. 5.16);
and
(x) the Government will make no major additional investments in
Niamey Airport facilities unless the Association has agreed
both to the investment itself and to the proposed method of
its financing (para. 5.16).
6.02      The project is suitable for a Credit to the Government of Niger in
the amount of US$5.0 million equivalent. The Credit will be on standard IDA
terms, with the funds made available to ASECNA for Niamey Airport. ASECNA
will account for these funds as if they were a loan for a period of 25 years
including a five-year grace period during which no repayment of principal
would be made, and a rate of interest of 7-1/4% after 1976, including a
capitalized interest of 7-1/4% during the period of construction (para. 3.17).
April 8, 1974



Table 1
NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAI4EY INTFRNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Air Traffic Developments
Actual                         Forecast
1967              1972            1977           1912
Annual Passengers(000) '0/
International          24,090   (11.5%Y  41,599 (10.0%Y  67,000 (10.0%)108,000
Domestic                6,470   ( 7.1%)   9,122 ( 8.9%) 14,000 ( 7.4%)  20,000
Transit                15,884   (20.0%) 39,096 (12.0%) 69,000 (11.9%) 121,000
Annual Air Freight (tons)
Inbound                 1,627   (12,2%)   2,880 ( 9.8%)   4,000 (10.2%)   7,500
Outbound                1,183   ( 9.9%)  1,903 (17.1%)   4,200 217.0%)   9,200
Arnnual Aircraft
Movements
Total                   9,05    ( 7.2%)  12,789 ( 4.2%) 15,740 ( 4.4%)  19,492
Passenger               1,895   ( 7.2%)   2,677 ( 5.3%)   3,466 ( 5.4%)   4,502
International
Scheduled              816              1,314           1,508            1,664
International
Non-Scheduled           83                100             108              118
Domestic               996              1,263           1,850            2,720
Cargo                      -                 455 (14.2%)     884 (11.3%)   1,510
Other                   7,159    ( 6.2%) 9,657 ( 3.4%) 11,390 ( 3.4%)  13,480
1/ Figures in parentheses show annual average growth rate.
Source: ASECNA
March 1974



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Investment Program and Financing Schedule
Advanced
Year(s) of     Total Cost               Local                         from       Auto-
Investment Program                      Expenditure   (CFAF million)    IDA    Loan    ASECNA    Govt.   Concess.   financing
1. IDA Project                            1974-76         1,470          85%                        15%        -
2. Second Extension of freight shed       1973-74             58          -       60%      -          -       40%
3. Third Extension of freight shed         1978               58          -       60%      -          -       40%
4. Transfer of offices                     1974               24          -        -       -       100%        -
5. Additional housing                      1974               14          -       43%      57%        -        -
6. Additional parking                      1978               93          -      60%       -        40%        -
7. Equipment renewal I                     1973              32           -        -       -          -        -           100%
8. Equipment renewal II                    1976               37          -        -       -          -        -           100%
9. Equipment renewal III                   1978               47          -        -       -          -        -           100%
1,833
US$ equivalent:
7,332,000
Source:  ASECNA                                                                                                          CD
March 19?l



Table 3
NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAXEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                   Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                        at end of Quarter
1974/75
September 30, 1974 
December 31, 1974                                600,000
March 31, 1975                                 1,200,000
June 30, 1975                                  2,500,000
1975/76
September 30, 1975                             3,0ooo,00o
December 31, 1975                              3,400,000
March 31, 1976                                 3,700,000
June 30, 1976                                  4,100,000
1976/77
September 30, 1976                            4,100,000
December 31, 1976                             5,000,000
Source: Mission estimates.
March 1974



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NTAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT AS OF DECEMBER 31_EACH YEAR
(In  CPAF million)
1971       1972       1973       1974        1975      1976       1977       1978        1979       1980        1981.      1982
OPERATING REVENUES
Landing Charges                               116        138        143         180        195       218        246         262        283        324         358        397
Light Charges                                   2          7           3          3          L         4          4           5          5           6          6          7
Passengers                                     20         22          27         43         53        58         65          71         78         85          95        105
Concessions                                     8         12          19         19         20        21         31          35         35          36         36         37
Other                                           6          6           7          7         23        27         30          34         38          43         47         52
152        180        199        252         295       328        376        407        439          94         542        598
OPERATING EXPENSE
Navigation & Meteo,                           128        134         Z41        148        155       163        171         179        189        190         208        219
Runway                                         28         29          30         32         35        37         39          41         43         45          47         49
Buildings                                      11         71          12         12         13        14         14          15         l6         17          17         18
167        174        183        192         203       214        224        235         248        252         272        286
Income Before Depreciation                    -15          6          16         60         97       115        152         172        191        242         270        312
Depreeiation                                   74         89          94        108        147       175         174        173        171         163        166         167
Operating Income                              -89        -83         -78        -48        -55       -60         -12         -1         20          79        104         145
Interest Not Capitalized                        2         13          13         13         13        11        107         106        104         101         97         93
Interest Capitalized                           -          -           -          -          33        74          -          -          -           -          -           -
Net Income                                    -91        -96         -91        -67        -68       -71        -119       -107        -84         -22           7         52
Operating Ratio °/ Before Deorec.             110         97          92         76         69        65          60         58         56          51         50          48
Operating Ratio % After Deorec.               159        146         139        119        119        119        106        100         95          84         81          76
Net Fixed Assets In Use                                             1039       1074       1494      1999        2078       1934       1791        1624       1483       1386
Return On Net Fixed Assets 7.                                         -          -           -         -          -          -            1.1        4.9         7.0       10.5
Sourcet ASECNA, Bank Mission
March 1974



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
DEBT SCHEDULE AS OF DECEMBER 31 EACH YEAR
(In CFAF million)
1973        1974        1975         1976        1977        1978         1979        1980         1981        1982
DEBT CALCULATIONS
BORROWINGS
Local Loan I                             41            0           0            0           0           0            0           0            0           0
Local Loan II                             0            0           0            0           0          35            0           0            0          56
IDA Credit                                0          150         700         400            0           0            0           0            0           0
Total Borrowings                         41          150         700         400            0          35            0           0            0          56
AMORTIZATION
Existing Debt                            23           24          23           20          16          16           16          16           16          16
Local Loan I                              0            0           1            8           8           8            8           8            0           0
Local Loan II                             0            0           0            0           0           0            0           7            7            7
IDA Credit                                0            0           0           0            0           0           32          34           36          39)
Total Amortization                       23           24                       28          24          24           56          65           59          62
LONGTERM DEBT GROS
Existing Debt                           163          139         116           96          80          64           48          32           16            0
Local Loan I                             41           41          40           32          24          16            8           0            0            0
Local Loan II                             0            0           0            0           0          35           35          28           21          70
IDA Credit                                0          150         883        1357         1357        1357         1325        1291         1255        1216
Total Gross Longterm Debt               204 T                   1039         1485        1461        1472         1416        1351         1292        1286
TOTAL INTEREST
Existing Debt                            12           10           9            7           6            4           3            2           1            1
Local Loan I                               1           3           4            4           3            2           1            1           0            0
Local Loan II                              0           0           0            0           0            2           2            2           2            1
IDA Credit                                0            0          33           74          98          98           98          96           94           91
Total Interest Includ. C,pitalized   13               13         -4T           85         107          106         104         TO i97                     93
Debt Service
Existing Debt                            35           34          32           27          22           20          19           18          17           17
Local Loan T                               1           3            5          12          11           10           9            9           0            0
Local Loan IT                              0           0           0            0           0            2           2            9           9            8
IDA Credit                                0            0           0            0          98           98         130          130         130          130
Total Debt Service                       36           37          37           39         TTT                                               T3- 77  T 51 T55X
Source: ASECNA, Bank Mission
March 1974 -



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
FIXED ASSET SCHEDULE AS OF DECEMBER 31_ EACH YEAR
(In CFAF million)
1973        1974        1975        1976         1977        1978        1979         1980        1981         1982
EXISTING ASSETS
Gross Value                            1912        1912        1897         1897        1897        1897         1897        1829        1829         1829
Acc. Depreciation                       949        1039        1109         1192        1274        1352         1428        1428        1494         1557
Net Value                               963         873         788          705         623         545         469          401         335          272
Yearly Depreciation                      91          90           85          83          82          78           76          68           66          63
ADDITIONS
HOUSIN G  OFFICES. PARKING
Gross Value                              -           38          38           38          38          38           38          38          38          131
Acc. Depreciation                        -            2            4           6           8           10          12          14           16          22
Net Value                                -           36          34           32          30          28           26          24           22         109
Yearly Depreciation                      -            2            2           2           2            2           2           2            2           6
FREIGHT HANGAR EXTENSION
Gross Value                              -           58          58           58          58         116          116         116         116          116
Acc. Depreciation                        -            3            6           9          12           18          24          30          36           42
Net Value                                -           55           52          49          46          98           92          86          80           74
Yearly Depreciation                      -            3            3           3           3            6           6           6            6           6
EOUPM4ENT RENEWAL
Gross Value                              32          32           32          69          69           69          69          69         116          116
Acc. Depreciation                         3           6            9          16          23           30          37          44           56          68
Net Value                                29          26           23          53          46           39          32          25           60          48
Yearly Depreciation                       3            3           3           7            7           7           7           7           12          12
IDA PROJECT
Gross Value                              -          176         999         1470        1470         1470        1470        1470         1470        1470
Acc. Depreciation                        -            10          64         144         224          304         384         464          544         624
Net Value                                -          166         935         1326        1246         1166        1086        1006          926         846
Yearly Depreciation                      -            10          54          80          80           80          80          80           80          80
TOTAL ASSETS
Gross Value                            1944        2216        3024         3532        3532        3590         3590        3522         3569        3662
Acc. Depreciation                       952        1060        1192         1367        1541         1714        1885        1980         2146        2313
Net Value                               992        1156         1832        2165        1991         1876        1705        1542         1423        1349
Yearly Depreciation                      94         108          147         175         174          173         171         163          166         167
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS                 33          -            -           -           -            -           -            -           -           -
Source: ASECNA, Bank Mission
March 1974



NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIA\MEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS AS OF DECEMBER 31. EACH YEAR
(In CFAF million)
1973        1974         1975        1976         1977         1978        1979         1980        1981         1982
SOURCES
INTERNAL CASH GEN.
Net Income Before Interest                 -78          -48          -55          -60         -12           -1          20           79          104         145
Depreciation                                94          108          147          175         174          173         171          163          166         167
Subtotal                                    16           60           9i.        115          162          172         191          242          270         312
CONTRIBUTIONS
Government                                    0          26          123           71           0           0            0            0           0           37
ASECNA                                        8           0            0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
Concessionaires                             23            0            0           0            0          23            0            0           0            0
Subtotal                                    31           26          123          71            0          23            0            0           0           37
BORROWINGS
Local Loan I                                41            0            0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
Local Loan II                                0            0            0           0            0          35            0            0           0           56
IDA Credit                                   0          I            700         400            0           0            0            0           0            0
Subtotal                                    41          150          700         400            0          35            0            0           0           56
OTHER SOURCES
TOTAL SOURCES                               88           236         915         586          162          210Q         1           24_          271 A2
APPLICATIONS
CONSTRUCTION
Project                                       0         176          823         471            0            0           0            0            0           0
Ext. Freight Shed                           33           25            0           0            0           58           9            0            0           0
Offices, Housing                              0          38            0            0           0            0           0            0            0           0
Equipment Renewal                           32            0            0          37            0            0           0            0          47            0
Additional Parking                            0           0            0            0           0            0            0 O         0            0          93
Subtotal                                    65          239          823         471            °           58           0            0          47           93
DEBT SERVICE
Amortization                                 23          24           24           28          24           24           56          65           59           62
Interest Not Capitalized                    13           13           13           11         107          106          104         101           97           93          -
Subtotal                                    J6           37           37           39         131          130          160         166          156          155
OTHER APPLICATIONS
Change In Cash                              -13         -40           55           76          31           42           31          76           67          157
-13         -40           55           76          31           42           31          76           67          157
TOTAL APPLICATION                           488                      915          59t         1=            ;           121         242          270          405
ACCUMULATED CASH AT END OF YENR             -13         -53            2          78          109          151         182          258          325         482
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------               -----
Source: ASECNA, Bank Mission
M-rch 1Q976






ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne en Afrigue et
a Madagascar (ASECNA)
ASECNA was formed by the Treaty of St. Louis between France and 14
African states. The treaty contains 15 principal articles, of which four
have financial implications for Niger.
Article 2 states: "The Agency shall manage the installations and
services intended to transmit technical and traffic communications, naviga-
tion of aircraft, traffic control, flight information, forecasts and trans-
mission of meteorological information both for en route traffic as well as
for approach and landing on the airfields listed in the Annex".
Niamey is the only Niger airport listed in the Annex.
Article 5 states: "In order to meet its expenses, the Agency will
have resources which may come from:
1.   Tariffs collected from the users;
2.   Contracts mentioned in Articles 10, 11 and 12;
4.   Subventions."
Article 10 states: "Apart from the services laid down in this
Treaty, each State may request the Agency to manage or maintain any facility
of aeronautical utility by entering into a contract which financially is in
conformity with the spirit of Article 5."
Article 12 states: "The Agency may enter into contracts with States
which wish to use its services."
Under the above articles, ASECNA controls en route navigation for
all aircraft in the area (Article 2), provides an approach and landing navi-
gation for the airport of Niamey (Article 2), provides an approach and landing
navigation for the airport of Niamey (Article 2), manages and maintains Niamey
Airport and some minor airports in the country (Article 10), and periodically
inspects the other minor airports in the country. In addition, ASECNA is
responsible for project construction and supervision at Niamey Airport (Arti-
cle 12).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Financing of ASECNA's expenditures for Articles 2 and 10 comes
mainly from three sources, as indicated below for the year 1971:
Art. 2 &
-- Art. 2            -----   Art. 10------
mill. CFAF      %     mill. CFAF       %
Expenditures                     5,280         100%       7,388       100%
Financed by:
(a) Revenue from airport
operations               1,749          33%       2,953         40%
(b)  Subsidies by African
Member States             1,398          26%      1,941         26%
(c)  Subsidy by France           2,133          41%      2,494         34%
Total                 5,280         100%       7,388        100%
Financing by France has remained constant in absolute terms over
the last ten years at about 2,500 million CFAF. In relative terms, however,
the percentage has decreased from 66% in 1961 to 34% in 1971. Airport revenue
financing has increased its share from 13% to 40% in the same time period.
Contributions from the African member governments has changed little, from
22% to 26% in the last ten years.
Article 12 expenses are financed by a proportion of landing fees
and passenger charges, by commercial or other loans, and by the Government.
The budget for Niger in 1971 was about 6% of the total ASECNA budget: 476
million CFAF, of which 339 million for Article 2 and 137 million for Article
10 operations. About 70% (347 million CFAF) of the yearly budget is for aerial
navigation and airport operations in Niamey. The remaining 30% cover the ex-
penditures of the ASECNA training school, also located in Niamey, and the
expenditures incurred at the four domestic airports.
The costs of Niamey Airport operations have been obtained by taking
the Article 10 costs concerned with Niamey Airport, and by calculating the
proportion of Article 2 costs relative to approach navigation and landing aids.
Staffing
ASECNA currently employs about 6,000 persons, of whom about 400 are
expatriates. Employees in Niger total about 340, including about 50 expatri-
ates.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Existing Facilities at Niamey Airport
1.        Niamey serves three functions in air transport in northwest Africa.
It is the site of: (i) ASECNA's school for technicians; (ii) an air traffic
control center providing service to flights operating to southern and western
Africa; and (iii) an airport strategically located on the north-south air
traffic lanes. Of these, the school and the air traffic control center are
managed and equipped by ASECNA as part of its overall program; it is not con-
sidered necessary to provide assistance or to recommend changes in these
areas.
2.        The airport at present includes an air traffic control tower, air
traffic control center, and meteorological and communication facilities, all
located in a newly enlarged technical and administrative center.
3.        A new air terminal of simple and inexpensive design was built in
1971 which will provide adequate space for passenger processing for several
years to come. No improvements or expansion are considered necessary at
this time. There is sufficient land area available for future growth.
4.        Road access, traffic-handling procedures, and parking space are
adequate, and there is ample room for expansion should the need arise.
5.        The air cargo area is not presently well developed, but it is
growing and has ample space for expansion. The present facilities were built
in 1967 and extended in 1971; further expansion now underway should be ready
in 1974. This should provide, in total, sufficient capacity to 1978, when
another extension is scheduled to take place.
6.        A plant for the palletized and refrigerated storage for meat is
expected to be available in 1974.
7.        The crash-rescue building is considered to be adequate to 1985.
The equipment is somewhat antiquated, but replacement was not considered
essential to the project.
8.        Other buildings at the airport are mainly in the staff compound
where quarters are provided for ASECNA staff. The water supply is from wells.
9.        The present aircraft apron has been built up over the years from
materials that were easily available at the time; consequently, there are
good and bad sections scattered over the area. Construction first began in
1948, and additions were made in 1960, 1963, and 1969. The variation in
materials and methods which resulted from the need to do the best possible



ANNEX 2
Page 2
with the resources available, produced a pavement which was reasonably
adequate for the type of aircraft in use at the time. Now, however, most
of the apron needs to be revoved and rebuilt in order to accommodate heavier,
modern aircraft, but it is not expedient to do so at this time. For the
moment, the one good position will be strengthened, and the remainder of the
apron left for lighter aircraft, with minor repairs to be carried out as
required.
10.       The runway is in surprisingly good condition considering that
funds have not always been made available for its upkeep. It is however
badly cracked, and beginning to show the signs of distress caused by heavy
aircraft. The cracking particularly is considered to be result cf a combi-
nation of factors: hot climate, poor mix design, and sporadic and infrequent
traffic. There has been no crack filling, but deformation is less than might
be expected. Test results indicate that the pavement is basically sound,
and that an overlay for strengthening is all that is required. ASECNA has
proposed a minimum strength overlay program to meet heavy aircraft require-
ments, and in view of the traffic forecast, this is acceptable.
11.       Drainage is not a problem for most of the year.  It is not consi-
dered possible at this time to improve the drainage to satisfy demands during
the one montlh of heavy rains.
12.       The runway lighting system is old and inconsistent with modern
requirements. It is therefore proposed to install high-intensity flush run-
way and taxi-edge lighting, new cable, new generators, and switchgear. In
addition, to complete the Instrument Landing System, a high-intensity approach
lighting system will be installed.
13.       The existing ILS marker beacons and glide path will remain unchan-
ged, but a new localizer will be provided. This system will greatly facilitate
landings in the dust haze which is a serious problem at Niamey.
14.       The land area within the existing airport boundary is adequate for
the foreseeable future. The airport lands and most of the surrounding terrain
are controlled by the Government.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation
Details of Economic Costs
1.        The economic cost of the project is taken as the cost of the invest-
ment, excluding the estimated local taxes and the price contingency. No
specific evaluation has been made of operational cost increases for the air-
port, in view of the very marginal cost increases for aircraft maneuvering
areas. However, a small amount has been added for increased airport costs
of the lighting system.
Details of Economic Benefits
Benefits to the Airport
2.        The most direct advantage of the project is the replacement of
existing aircraft movements by heavier aircraft, and corresponding increases
in landing fees as a result of the larger chargeable aircraft weight. The
number of movements by large aircraft replacing existing smaller ones has been
estimated for each year following completion of the project (expected in
1976) until 1982, when enlarged aircraft parking areas may become necessary.
From 1982 until about 1990, the same airport revenue differential is ex-
pected to continue, since the revenues from increased traffic during that
period may be needed to offset the cost of additional investment required.
(Details of the calculation are set out on page 2 of this Annex).
3.        If the project is not carried out, Niamey Airport will not only
forego the revenue increase outlined above, but will also lose revenue from the
discontinuance of present DC-8 flights when larger aircraft are introduced to
replace them (Details on page 2).
4.        Without the project, increasing deterioration of the runway would
occur, with serious consequences. The immediate result would be that existing
long-range jet aircraft could not be accepted, and the airport would eventually
have to be closed to all jet traffic. In these circumstances, one of the least
expensive ways for Niamey traffic to be served with propeller aircraft would be
by operation of DC-6B or similar types to the closest international airport at
Ouagadougou, Upper Volta. The annual cost of such feeder service would be
about CFAF 212 million (Details on page 2).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Estimates of Economic Bene^its
A.   Benefit From Landing Charges Increase
Landing Charges in 1976
Rate for DC-10 = CFAF 268,000; for DC-3, CFAF 145,000
315 landings x CFAF 123,000 = CFA' 3&.7 maillion
Landing Charges in 1981
805 landings x CFAF 123,000 = CFAF 99.0 million
B.   Benefit From Avoided Loss of Revenue
Avoided Loss in 1976
315 landings x CFAF 145,000 = CFAF 45.6 million
Avoided Loss in 1981
805 landings x CFAF 145,000 = CFAF 116.7 million
Thereafter, an increase of only 2% annually is assumed. The total
benefit under A and B above is equal to the total landing charges of DC-10
aircraft that would use the airport if the project were carried out, (i.e.,
the DC-10/DC-8 differential as positive benefit of the project, and the basic
DC-8 landing charges as loss avoided)
C.   Benefit from Avoided Cost of Feeder Service
1,770 hours of a DC-6 x CFAF 120j0J0 per hour = CFAF 212 million per
year.  It has been assumed that without the project tihese costs will build up
gradually as DC-10 aircraft are introduced and transit flights correspondingly
reduced. It has been further assumed that one DC-6 aircraft would suffice for
effecting liaison with an international airport.
Benefits Not Quantified
6.        A substantial advantage of the project is the operational cost
savings to the airlines through the use of larger and more economical equip-
ment. Weighing this benefit alone against the airport investment required
would give economic returns of the project in excess of 18%. A small part
of this return is indirectly obtained by Niger through its 7% ownership in
Air Afrique which, together with the French Union des Transports Aeriens (UTA),
operates most of the international long-range services. A calculation of
Niger's share of the total savings has been made by multiplying the savings
per ton-km by the produced ton-km originating or terminating at Niamey Air-
port. This has been estimated to increase by 8% per year partly as a result



ANNEX 3
Page 3
of increased traffic, and partly due to a larger share of the traffic being
carried by less expensive aircraft.
7.        Because of uncertainties surrounding the airlines' future pricing
policies, the calculation does not include benefits from avoided increases in
fares and rates as a consequence of lower unit operating costs associated with
larger aircraft. Also, a certain amount of repair work would be necessary to
keep the runway open even for small aircraft; the cost of such work could
have been deducted from the investment outlay (sometime between 1976 and 1980),
or added as another benefit (cost avoided). However, the item has been omitted,
and this serves to further demonstrate that the stated rate of return on the
project is very conservative.
Sensitivity Tests
8.        Economic Rate of Return
Best estimate                         20%
15% investment cost increase          16%
25% higher benefits                   24%
25% lower benefits                    15%



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Economic Evaluation of Airport Improvements
(in CFAF million)
I. COSTS                                     II. BENEFITS
Investment   Increase           Airport       Avoided     Avoided Cost
Less         operating          Revenue       Revenue     of Feeder
Year  local Taxes  Cost               DC1O/DC8      Loss DC8    Service
1974     -150
1975     -700
1976     -400           -9               39            46              0
1977                    -9               45            56              0
1978                    -9               60            67              0
1979                    -9               72            80             85
1980                    -9               86            96            146
1981                    -9               99           117            212
1982                    -9               99           119            212
1983                    -9                99          121            212
1984                    -9               99           123            212
1985                    -9                99          126            212
1986                    -9                99          129            212
1987                    -9                99          132            212
1988                    -9               99           135            212
1989                    -9                99          137            212
1990                    -9                99          140            212
1991                    -9                99          143            212
1992                    -9                99          146            212
1993                    -9                99          149            212



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NIGER
APPRAISAL OF NIAMEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis
Revenues
1.        The following table gives ASECNA's revenue forecast for landing
charges, plus the adjustments made by the mission 1/ and the additional
revenue generated by the proposed 10% tariff increase:
Additional
Additional Revenue    Landing    Revenue from
ASECNA        Mission         from Tariff         Charge    Import-Ilandling
Year   Forecasts   Adjustments          Increase            Total         Charge
1973      141           +2                                   143
1974      151          +29                                   180            -
1975      167           28                 -                 195           15
1976      186           12                20                 218           17
1977      205           19               22                  246           18
1978      217           22                23                 262           20
1979      234           23                26                 283           22
1980      260           34               30                  324           25
1981      284           42               32                  358           27
1982      313          +49                35                 397           30
Operating Expenses
2.        Operating expenses are not particularly sensitive to the volume of
traffic. All operating expenses are increased by 5% per annum which takes
into account the expected increase in traffic and in the standard of living,
and a reduction in the proportion of expatriate staff.
1/   The adjustments were found necessary because of inconsistencies in
ASECNA's forecast. Other revenue forecasts are as projected by ASECNA.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Investment Program and Financing
3.        The investments shown in Table 2 are considered essential for the
successful operation of the Niamey Airport, and are included in the financial
analysis. Table 2 also gives details on the financing conditions of the
investment program.
Interest Payments
4.        Interest will be incurred by capitalized during the period of con-
struction and paid at a rate of 7.25% from 1977. As from 1980, annuity will
be paid for 20 years.
Depreciation
5.        Depreciation is on a straight-line basis over the estimated life
of the asset as follows:
Runway and Parking                         25 years
Buildings                                  20 years
Lighting                                   10 years
Radio & Meteorological Equipment           10 years
Firefighting Equipment                      8 years
Vehicles                                    5 years
Capitalized interest is depreciated over 20 years from the year following
the capitalization.
Project Assets
6.        All assets built under the proposed Credit will be put into
commercial use and capitalized on or before January 1, 1977.



ALGER   ~~~  .1IIAB  Y  A
-ng                N;~~~~~                  ~ G E;R                   A L G E R IAzt          
LOCATION OF AIRPORTS                                                                                      N
i - Internafional airport                                                                              /
+  tocot airport                     j\\'
-lot ted roods                                                           "\
Other roods                                                                                                      K
-10Djdo
-,Rivers
g A ,         I  C>~KN                           ...lntemnootxA boundories
N I G      E     R )                                                                                                                            Y_                  __ 2IGER  ;2
am~~~~~,e Y,-                                                                                    - ..-- -      -   -, 
.,lferouane
O       10(       20       30                   'iI(/                                                                            
#tUOMETE" Rt1- ;                                                           Arlit )/ 
1        ~~~~MILES                                                                                                                              Itz\8 1y     
i                   I. l-n-GaIl\P----''-'1 AGADEZ                                          |
\   M    V  L    t                        j      r s:               0           /9                                                                    /           16
u                          I         \                ,/            \                                 ,,-_\       \I  I               /
./  }  _-f,-                    X>Ta~~~~~~~~~lcho  TAHOUA__- \s  Tainout                                    {                         Kue<
\Koufey /
STIlloberi                                                                                                    ?  +T Dakoro  C    H    A    D
iP Peri5   T                                                                It, _,
~       (1                    BIR   K6 N                                        ZINDER                 IS
I ~   ~     _ E  ogndu h' de #WZ2C#SUme a t;             e1                                                        A EON  
_*_P  P   E   R    N-.4 + .,,,                      4° _A KF
~Goya                                                                                                                            m
f                                      o~~~~~~~~jr,tona~ hn ot hi, moo do no-AMRONf-
D A HOM EY           \    piy endo,enooon  -o av,nphtnno h.y hCA E 
*~~~%*~~~                            40 ~~~~~~~/o4d Eqo~~~~8k ond i. afflttboon  0 






IBRD 10641
SEPTEMBER 1973
OHANGAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N  I G  E R
NIAMEY AIRPORT
LAYOUT OF FACILITIES
j/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o x77Nwtopwaa
* ...Naaa -atai Ihigh,x
EXISTING STOPWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A,tpYtt oounda,5
. . .    i' .: *:::: .  .                            .................  .  .  .  .(-   *  * .......                              * * .  . .  .  .. J 7570    r ;  ; ;NEW LOCALIZER
0   100  200  390  400  500  600  700  BoO °90  1000
0   190 200 300 400 50O 600 790 800  9O0  1000
\ Tech~,-                                                                                                                                                                                                        G- d... |  -0
-----------\ <-|---                                                                   M    INALa <                                          INUTIL            j{ \                                                                                     r       
< // S      1   1                   CO~~~~~MMUNICATIONS 
ss                          =            =            <                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                   ~      ~     ~         ~       ~~TRANSMITTER  -   - - S37   3B0
{  S TE                                                                        ' .-1~~~~-~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~ /   % a                                                             |         K ometer;         \ST
<                            no                                                                                       |          ~~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mdix  0Z10 '



