CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 473 NIR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Niarney International Airport Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 24, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 473 NIR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Niamey International Airport Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 24, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by Agence pour la ScuritM de la
Navigation Adrienne en Afrique et c Madagascar (hereinafter called ASECNA), an
international agency established pursuant to a convention signed in Saint Louis
du Sdnigal on December 12, 1959. The Project will be carried out with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to ASECNA the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement to be entered into
between the Association and ASECNA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between
the Association and ASECNA, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Program" means the 1974-82 investment program, as set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which is the first phase of the long-term development
plan prepared by ASECNA for the development of the Airport, as it may be
amended from time to time;
(c)   "Airport" means the Niamey International Airport, and such term
includes the facilities and services set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)   "Convention" means the Convention relative a la cration d'une Agence
chargde de gerer les installations et services destines a assurer la securitg de la
navigation adrienne en Afrique et & Madagascar signed in Saint Louis du Sdnigal
on December 12, 1959, as amended;
(e)   "Statuts" means the statuts of ASECNA dated December 12, 1959,
as amended;
(f)   "Cahier des charges" means the Cahier des charges relatif a la gestion
des installations et services of ASECNA dated December 12, 1959, as amended;
(g)   "Contrat particulier" means the agreement between the Borrower and
ASECNA dated May 12, 1961, as amended;
(h)   "Contrat spcial" means the contract to be entered into between the
Borrower and ASECNA, for the purposes of the execution of the Project; and
(i)   "CFAF" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿0                                    5
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under this
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time io time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1984 and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
ASECNA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary


﻿6
or appropriate to enable ASECNA to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make available to ASECNA the proceeds of the
Credit on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Contrat Particulier
and the Contrat Special in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the carrying out of the Project and the efficient operation
of the Airport.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower:
(a) shall undertake or cause to be undertaken all investments and shall take or
cause to be taken such other action as shall be necessary for completion of the
Program, and (b) shall not amend the Program.
Section 4.02. Until completion of the Program, the Borrower shall not carry
out, or authorize any third party to carry out, any investment in the Airport,
which would not be an item of the Program and which, by itself or together with
any other such investment in any fiscal year of the Borrower, would exceed the
equivalent of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000), unless the Association
shall have agreed on the investment and the financing therefor.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures necessary, including
establishing and maintaining tariffs for landing and other charges at the Airport
at an appropriate level to produce: (i) an annual operating ratio (before
depreciation) of not more than 60% in 1978 and of not more than 55% in 1981
and thereafter, and (ii) an annual rate of return on net fixed assets in operation
of at least 7-1/4% in 1982 and thereafter; provided that due attention shall be
paid in planning and carrying out such measures, including the timing for their
implementation, to the effect they may have on the traffic using that airport.


﻿7
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)          "annual operating ratio" means all operating expenses charged
to the Airport, including administrative overhead and
maintenance expenses and taxes, divided by gross operating
revenues from the provision of services and facilities at the
Airport for the year concerned;
(ii)        the "annual return" shall be calculated by relating the Airport's
net operating revenues for the fiscal year under consideration
to the average of the value of the Airport's net fixed assets
(excluding navigational and other facilities not used exclusively
for the Airport's operations) in operation at the beginning and
at the end of such year;
(iii)        "net operating revenues" shall be calculated by deducting the
Airport's  operating- expenses    for  the  fiscal year   under
consideration from the Airport's gross operating revenues for the
same period;
(iv)        the tcrm "net fixed assets in operation" means the original cost
of all fixed assets in operation (excluding navigational and other
facilities not used exclusively for the Airport's operations)
adjusted from  time to time to reflect the current replacement
value of such assets, less accumulated depreciation thereon; and
(v)         the terms "operating expenses" and       "fixed assets" means,
respectively, the expenses incurred and fixed assets affected to
the Airport utilized for the purpose of operating the facilities
and services described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and
managed by ASECNA.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, and without any
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
upon completion of the Project, in order to improve the Airport's financial
situation, take or cause ASECNA to: (i) increase aircraft landing tariffs by 10%,
and (ii) levy a handling charge of $20 per ton on goods imported through the
Airport, or take any other necessary actions to produce an effect equivalent to
that of the combined actions referred to in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) hereof.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by ASECNA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of ASECNA and
the resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of ASECNA, and
the resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement or the performance by ASECNA of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreemnt and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ASECNA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   an  extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that ASECNA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;


﻿10
(c)   the Convention, the Statuts or the Cahier des charges shall have been
amended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely
affect the carrying out of the Project or the ability of ASECNA to carry out
its other obligations under the Project Agreement, the Contrat Particulier or the
Contrat Special;
(d)   the Contrat Particulier or the Contrat Special shall have been assigned,
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the proper maintenance
and operation of the Airport; and
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the suspension of all or a substantial part of the operations
of ASECNA within the Borrower's territories.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur; and
(b)   any of the events specified in any other paragraph of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ASECNA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The Borrower and ASECNA shall have entered into a Contrat Special
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association providing, inter alia,
for the Borrower making available to ASECNA the proceeds of the Credit, and
the execution and delivery of such Contrat Spcial on behalf of the parties thereto
shall have been duly authorized and ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.


﻿Ai
11
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ASECNA, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of ASECNA in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the Contrat Spcial has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ASECNA, respectively, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and ASECNA in
accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date August 27, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article Ill of this
Agreement and the provisions of Sections 6.02 and 6.03 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 26 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre du D&eloppement et de la Coopration of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of thp General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist're du Ddveloppement et de la Cooperation
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Cable address:
Ministere du Developpement et de la Cooperation
Niamey


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ H. E. Abdoulaye Diallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    Civil Works -                  2,900,000            85% of total
Part A of the                                       expenditures
Project
II.   Equipment and                    800,000            100% of foreign
Services -                                          expenditures or
Part B of the                                       85% of total ex-
Project                                             penditures
III.  Consultants'                     200,000            100% of foreign
Services -                                          expenditures or
Part C of the                                       85% of total ex-
Project                                             penditures
IV.   Unallocated                    1,100,000
TOTAL               5,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.


﻿14
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corrcsponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or


﻿15
of local expenditures under Categories II or III shall increase and no proceeds
of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to enable large, modern, long-range aircraft
to use, safely and economically, the Niamey international airport.
The Project comprises the major investment items of the 1974-82 Program
for the maintenance and improvement of the Airport, and consists of:
Part A
1.   Strengthening the existing runway and taxiway.
2.    Construction to lengthen the existing runway from 2,570 m to about
2,770 m, with a turning area and overshoot (stopway) of about
200 m.
3.    Construction to widen and strengthen a portion of the existing apron,
and to add one heavy-aircraft parking position.
4.    Construction of blast protection on shoulders of the apron, taxiway
and runway.
Part B
1.   Replacement and relocation of the localizer of the instrument landing
system, including acquisition of additional equipment therefor.
2.    Acquisition  and  installation  of high-intensity  runway  lighting
equipment and a high-intensity approach lighting system.
3.    Acquisition and installation of meteorological equipment, a ceilometer
to determine cloud and ceiling heights, and a transmissometer to
measure visibility on the runway.
Part C
Consultants' services for Part A and Part B above.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Airport's Facilities and Services
(A)   Basic landing facilities and services
Landing area with cleared approaches and taxiways with necessary
drainage, fencing, etc.
Air traffic control for approach, landing, taxiing and take-off with
necessary communications (sometimes partly or wholly provided by
other than the Airport operators).
Apron for temporary parking, loading, unloading and servicing aircraft.
Passenger and public waiting rooms and concourse with necessary
heating, lighting, janitor service, police service, approach roads, etc.
Fire and ambulance service in attendance.
(B)   Special landing facilities and services
At night and during bad visibility by day: Lights for approach, landing,
taxiing and take-off, radio and other special aids for approach, landing
and take-off (sometimes provided by other than the Airport operator).
(C)   Other facilities and services provided for aircraft operators
Hangar, workshop, stores, garage and other technical accommodation.
Parking space for longer than necessary for routine loading, unloading,
and servicing.
Land leased to aircraft operators for various purposes.
Assistance in handling passengers and cargo, and necessary equipment.
Towing and other handling of aircraft.
Special servicing of aircraft (air conditioning, cleaning, etc.)


﻿18
Accommodation for airline offices, traffic counters and air crews, and
for the handling of passengers and cargo.
Communication facilities (aircraft operating agency messages - Class
B).
Provision of aircraft fuel and other technical supplies, and also of
maintenance and repairs for aircraft (usually via concessions).
Common services such as the provision of light, heat, power and heating
fuel.
(D) Accommodation for other than aircraft operators
Accommodation for shops, hotels, restaurants, parcel checking rooms,
motor transport organization, telegraph office, post office, banks, etc.
Facilities paid for directly by the public (sight-seeing, car parking, etc.)
Accommodation      for   necessary   Borrower's   activities,  customs,
immigration, public health, agricultural quarantine, etc.
Land rented to other than aircraft operators (including grazing rights,
etc.)


﻿*                                             19
SCHEDULE 4
Description of the Program
The 1974-1982 investment program for the maintenance and improvement
of the Niamey International Airport is the first phase of the long-term plan prepared
by ASECNA for the development of the Airport. The Program consists of:
Part A.     The Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Part B.     Freight shed extension.
Part C.     Transfer of offices and construction of additional housing and parking.
Part D.     Equipment renewal.


