                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 29174




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-26050)

                                            ON A

                                          CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 79.9 MILLION (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                                PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR THE

                           XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT PROJECT




                                        June 29, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 17, 2004)

                          Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                  Y 1.00 = US$ 0.121
                               US$ 1.00 = Y 8.2866



                                 FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1   -  December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      -  Country Assistance Strategy
CRO      -  County Resettlement Office
EIA      -  Environmental Impact Assessment
EMO      -  Envrionment Management Office
EMP      -  Envrionmental Management Plan
EPB      -  Environment Protection Bureau
ERR      -  Economic Rate of Return
ESE      -  Environmental Supervising Engineer
HPRO     -  Henan Provincial Resettlement Office
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
IDA      -  International Development Association
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
MTR      -  Mid-term Review
MWR      -  Ministry of Water Resources
NRCR     -  National Research Centre For Resettlement
POE      -  Panel of Experts
RPDI     -  Reconnaissance Planning And Design Institute
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
VEO      -  Village Environmental Officer
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
SPRO     -  Shanxi Provincial Resettlement Office
YRCC     -  Yellow River Conservancy Commission
YRCH     -  Yellow River Central Hospital
YRCCRO   -  Yellow River Conservancy Commission Resettlement Office
YRWHDC   -  Yellow River Water Hydropower Development Corporation
YRWHDCRO -  YRWHDC Resettlement Office




                          Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                      Country Director:     Yukon Huang
                        Sector Director:    Mark D. Wilson
                     Task Team Leader:      Chaohua Zhang

                                             CHINA
                       XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              14
6. Sustainability                                                                  16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 18
9. Partner Comments                                                                20
10. Additional Information                                                         24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              42
Annex 8. Project Scope and Progress                                                43
Annex 9. Loan Covenant Compliance                                                  45
Annex 10. Living Standard Assessment of the Resettlers                             47
Annex 11. Consultation, Participation and Grievance Redress Mechanism              53
Annex 12. Gender and Vulnerable Households in Resettlement And Rehabilitation      56
Annex 13. Project Organization and Management                                      59
Annex 14. Project Monitoring and Supervision                                       61
Annex 15. Environment Management                                                   64
Annex 16. Cultural Property Preservation and Protection                            70
Annex 17. Post Resettlement Assistance                                             74

Project ID: P003644                                                  Project Name: CN - XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT
Team Leader: Chaohua Zhang                                           TL Unit: EASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN - XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-26050
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (43%); General transportation
                            sector (19%); General information and communications sector
                            (19%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (11%);
                            Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (P); Other social development (S); Other environment
                            and natural resources management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/23/1993                                     Effective: 09/22/1994                09/22/1994
     Appraisal: 11/20/1993                                         MTR: 06/30/1996                  03/28/1997
      Approval: 04/14/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The People's Republic of China/The Ministry of Water Resources
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Chaohua Zhang                                  Daniel Gunaratnam
ICR Primary Author:             Chaohua Zhang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1    The objectives were to assist the Borrower: (a) to resettle and improve the livelihoods of
approximately 154,000 people in the reservoir area who need to be resettled as a result of the construction
and inundation up to the 265 meter level of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam; and (b) to minimize the
effects of social adjustment of the resettlers and of their host communities following resettlement.

3.1.2    In practice, the project did not limit its livelihood development activities to only the resettled
people, but included the host population. The objectives were realistic and important, both for the country
as a whole and for the rural sector. The project had moderate to significant risks at appraisal, but most of
these risks were ameliorated by effective and flexible management arrangements that allowed changes to
the project directions. The major change in project direction was in the livelihood component where, instead
of a larger share of incomes being generated from county industry the income was generated from a
combination of land based schemes, village based commercial farming and village industries and some
off-farm employment. It was a moderately complex project, but not one that placed undue demands on the
implementing agency, which made changes to ensure risks were reduced. The project now is completed and
throughout was very responsive to the circumstances of the Borrower and its development priorities.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The objectives of the project remained unchanged during the implementation phase, although the
target populations of resettlers increased from 154,000 to 172,487. Although ten years have passed since
its appraisal, the objectives of the project remain consistent with the current Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for China and with current international understanding, policy and standards in reservoir
resettlement that have seen significantly raised expectations and requirements.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The components of the project were:

Component A Residential and Infrastructure Reconstruction for Villages and Towns
Component B       Transfer of Resettlers
Component C       Planning, Design and Institutional Support
Component D Livelihood Development

3.3.2    In addition, the project included the following five important activities; they are described in
different levels of detail in the SAR but are not stated as project components. Only Activity 4 had separate
financing identified, and the other activities appear to be "embedded" in the main components:

Activity 1        Social Adjustment

Activity 2        Consultation, Participation and Grievance Redress
Activity 3        Gender and Vulnerable Groups
Activity 4        Environment Management
Activity 5        Cultural Relics Protection

3.3.3    The project was prepared and designed on the basis of a detailed analysis and an understanding of
experiences and lessons learned in the past 40 years in this sector in China. The components were closely
related to the achievement of the objectives, and were well within the capacity of the implementing agency.
One of the key lessons learned was the need for a "development" approach for reservoir resettlement. The



                                                         - 2 -

development approach consisted of, apart from pure compensation payments for replacement of housing,
village and all infrastructure including industries, there was additional large economic project infrastructure
provided for the resettlers like the Wenmengtan Land reclamation and associated irrigation and drainage
(80,000 mu) and Houhe Dam and irrigation (75.000 mu). The value of the new infrastructure was about
$100 million to help develop and restore livelihoods of resettlers and boost incomes of host families. Most
of the industries were essentially compensated, so that resettlers could start with modern and
environmentally friendly facilities, producing new and more marketable products. This was established as
a fundamental principle in the Chinese policy framework for reservoir resettlement developed in the late
1980s and was built into the project design through several decades of planning and efforts by local design
institutes and enhanced by international expertise and experience brought in with the preparation of the
project. This was reflected in the project design through: (a) a clear objective that resettlers should not only
restore, but also improve their living standard; (b) basic principles to be followed in planning, design and
implementation in line with this objective; (c) an elaborate institutional establishment; (d) a participatory
and consultative approach for planning and implementation; and (e) a commitment to carry out
post-resettlement support activities for the sustainable development of the resettlers.

3.3.4    With the benefit of hindsight, it is now clear that the project design could have been strengthened to
reflect more accurately the detailed design process, to appreciate better the complexities of reservoir
resettlement, and subsequently to gauge better the risks and challenges involved.

3.3.5      First, the project followed a phased approach for detailed planning and technical designs for
resettlement. This approach was inherently understood, but not presented adequately in the SAR. This
caused misunderstandings in terms of the dynamics and details of the project implementation designs.

3.3.6    Second, the Bank realized the risks during preparation concerning the feasibility and sustainability
of the industrial resettlement component, but accepted it as a method of improving living standards,
because of the strength of the rural industrial sector (which was growing at 15 percent per year during the
period 1980-1993). The Bank's initial position proved to be correct and this component was replaced with
the land-and-agriculture based program because macro-economic changes worldwide had caused the
industrial sector to be become unstable and, therefore, unsuitable and risky as a basis for resettlement. The
appraisal mission did accurately forecast the parametric risks, but it was impossible to forecast the
systemic risks of worldwide macro-economic behavior for rural industries in the rural sector in China. It
was also assessed during the appraisal that these systemic risks would to be settled during implementation
by being flexible with the approach to resettlement.

3.3.7    Third, the core and strength of the Chinese approach for reservoir resettlement is its reliance on
land and agriculture, and the Bank's policy preference and emphasis on a "land for land" approach. The
appraised project followed an approach of land for land and in addition provided for large off-farm income
from county level industries, which proved to be unsuccessful. Though the project design anticipated the
general trend of moving into the non-farm sector, it was not anticipate the drastic macro-economic change
in the county industries and the impact this would have. As a result, the government, in consultation with
the Bank changed the approach from a focus on county based industries to one focused on village
industries, commercial farming (sideline activities: cash crops, commercial livestock, fishery,
agro-processing, village industries), off-farm employment and land based agriculture. This approach was
successful.

3.3.8    The positive government policy framework, strong government commitment and success of a few
early reservoir resettlement programs led to some optimism about the timing of reaching objectives and in
hind sight, an underestimation of the complexities of reservoir resettlement, particularly on the social and
political side. While the overall project objectives have been achieved within the project time-frame, and


                                                       - 3 -

full livelihood restoration achieved for 70% of the resettlers, the remaining 30% the resettlers has reach
about 80% of their targeted incomes. Some of the lag can be accounted for due to the slowness of changes
in shifting from county to village based industries, sideline activities and also villagers desire to take a large
portion of the livelihood restoration compensation and invested it on high quality schools, clinics, village
center and on infrastructure rather than on larger irrigation or commercial agriculture or viable village
industry. However, some more analysis could have helped to understand better the evolving social and
political reforms in rural China and the challenges to be encountered in the reconstruction of livelihoods for
the affected rural villages and resettlers. However, no amount of analysis could have predicted the villagers
desire to invest more on higher quality service infrastructure, rather than productive economic facilities.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1     The project components remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the project.
However, there were four changes in the project's circumstances that affected the scope of all components.
First, the proposed new industrial investment to create non-farm jobs for resettlers was cancelled because
of the changed macro-economic situation and the high risks it carried in resettlement. The planned
industrial resettlement program was replaced with a land-and-agriculture based alternative program.
Second, as a result of the above change and the necessity for more resettlement sites, the host population
increased from an estimated 300,000 to 545,000. Third, because of the up-dated project impact inventory
survey in 1995 and the need that emerged in detailed technical design to move together those administrative
villages located on the inundation line, the affected population under the project was increased from
154,000 to 172,487. Fourth, the Reservoir Phase III Resettlement Program planned for implementation
during 2010-2011 was advanced to start in 2002.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


3.5.1     The Quality at Entry of the project is considered to have been satisfactory. The project was one of
the first large-scale resettlement projects in which the Bank had been involved throughout the whole design
stage. The project was consistent with the government's priorities and reflected the government's
commitment to meet international standards concerning resettlement, to take a long-term approach in
remaining engaged after the physical resettlement activities were completed, and to restore and improve the
living standards of affected people. The Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
was used as the basis for the establishment of a set of seventeen specific resettlement criteria to be observed
in the design and implementation of the project. The quality of the project design is considered to have
been good. Most of the assumptions about external factors and project risks were reasonable; however, in
a rapidly changing economic environment, those aspects of livelihood improvement that were based on
county industrial job-creation were largely abandoned and income was generated from land based activities,
commercial agriculture, village and household industries. The project was able to adapt to this changed set
of circumstances.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1     The achievement of the objectives under the project was generally satisfactory. The project has
essentially completed the resettlement program. All resettlers, with the exception of a small number, have
moved into new houses in their new villages, with complete infrastructure and public facilities. The living
conditions and the environment have substantially improved. Replacement land has been allocated to the
resettlers and various livelihood activities are under implementation. Independent assessment indicates that
the majority of the resettlers have improved or restored their living standard.


                                                      - 4 -

4.1.2    Resettlement of 172,487 people. The project has completed its resettlement program with the
exception of 1,500 people, less than 1 percent of the total, who have chosen to resettle themselves on their
own. A total of 227 villages and 12 towns have been established, and 170,987 people in 51,969
households have moved into new houses. This exceeds the appraisal target 154,000 people. The new
settlements are complete with infrastructure and public facilities, with improved access to markets,
services, information and various non-farm job opportunities. The majority of the resettler villages moved
as whole communities, so that social networks and kinship were maintained. The host population has also
benefited from the improved infrastructure. There are 1,500 people who have not moved with their fellow
villagers to the agreed and developed resettlement sites. They have changed their minds for various
reasons, including changed preference, village internal conflicts and desire to stay close to the reservoir.
While the project offices have been working with them to finalize the optimum alternatives many of these
resettlers have chosen to take their compensation and moved out on their own to other sites. The
government will continue to manage and track this group to ensure that they are properly resettled to the
location of their choosing. The government is being requested to report annually for the next three years,
ending in 2007 on the status of this management program.

4.1.3    Restoration and improvement of livelihoods. The project resettler population consists of four
groups (rural farmers, urban residents, employees of enterprises and institutions, and the host population).
The project objective was to reestablish the livelihoods of the affected population through designed
investment measures, so that they will not only restore their pre-relocation living standard, but also share in
the project benefits. Monitoring data indicate that the project has generally achieved its objective.

4.1.4    The project area includes twelve towns with a population of 9,519 people. They are mostly
employees in township government and institutions or business people. The project impact on these people
was limited only to their residences. All towns were relocated within their own jurisdiction, with improved
infrastructure and public facilities. The urban households have completed and moved into new houses,
generally larger in space and better in quality than their previous homes. Their living standards have
improved.

4.1.5    The project affected 789 enterprises, most of them village or private workshops, which hired
workers on a daily basis. These small operations have been compensated. There were a few medium-sized
state owned enterprises with a total employment of 3,846. They have either restarted their operations or
switched to new operations at new sites. All 3,846 long-term or regular employees have been reemployed
in the same enterprises. Additionally, there are 2,332 resettler labors employed in the new enterprises as
long-term workers.

4.1.6    The host population, which provided land for the resettlement program is of 545,024 people in 397
villages spread out over 13 counties in Henan and Shanxi Provinces. They were indirectly affected by
losing part of their farm land for the project resettlement programs. Monitoring and supervision confirm
that land compensation funds have been delivered to all host villages, village lands have all been
redistributed to the affected households and the completed livelihood programs have enabled them to
improve their livelihoods through on-farm investment, cropping pattern adjustment and non-farm ventures.
The host population also benefited from the infrastructure and public facilities put in place under the
project. In general, the living standard of the host population has improved.

4.1.7    The majority of the project-affected resettler population are farmers, accounting for 91 percent of
the total. Their restoration of livelihood was considered in four parts: (i) housing conditions, (ii)
infrastructure, (iii) access to public services, and (iv) income. The resettlers now enjoy significantly


                                                        - 5 -

improved livelihoods in terms of housing conditions, infrastructure and access to public services. The
resettlers are quite happy with housing conditions, which in most cases are spectacular for the rural areas
and far superior to the cave dwellings in the pre-resettlement villages. Though the average housing area is
very slightly smaller, the housing has improved in terms of structures, lighting, ventilation, water supply
and sanitary conditions.

4.1.8    Monitoring and surveys also indicate a high level of satisfaction with infrastructure and access to
public services. All 227 new villages are complete and functional with basic infrastructure such as water
supply, power supply, drainage systems and village road, schools, medical services, township centers,
telephone and broadcasting lines. Most of these basic facilities are constructed to a much higher standard
than the pre-resettlement conditions. For example, a reticulated safe water supply is provided for each
household; the electrical power network supplies each household; each household has a two-tank dry latrine
or a flush toilet and excreta is composted and disposed of safely; and drainage out of the village is
connected to a main drain or river system. Environmental conditions have improved significantly and the
incidence of disease has been reduced to 5 percent compared to the pre-resettlement conditions. Significant
investments have been made in school buildings and teaching facilities, and child care has improved.
Vulnerable groups, especially the old and single women or widows, have been provided with old-age homes
and other living facilities. The new resettlement sites have also provided them with better and convenient
access to markets and non-farm employment opportunities. In conclusion, the project is highly successful
in restoring and improving housing, infrastructure and public services for the resettlers.

4.1.9    The project implemented its land-and-agriculture based strategy for livelihood development,
supplemented by non-farm employment. Land compensation has been delivered to all resettlers.
Replacement land has been purchased and provided to all resettler villages as planned. Some 169 villages,
about 75 percent of the total, have reached the designed standard per resettler for replacement land. In the
villages where the area of replacement land has not reached the design standard, the villages have started
alternative livelihood programs with their remaining land compensation funds. Monitoring and supervision
reports indicate that the resettler villages have started extensive farm and off-farm livelihood programs and
that around 70 percent of the affected population have improved or restored their income level; the
remaining 30 percent have reached up to 80 percent of their previous income levels; full income restoration
will take a few more years to achieve.

4.1.10   Several factors contributed to their slow recovery of incomes for this 30 percent of the population.
First, the unfavorable macro-economic development in the rural sector in China since the mid-1990s caused
farming income growth to slow down and even to fall. The designed land-based package was not able to
produce the expected income. Instead, farmers have turned to side-line activities and non-farm sectors for
employment opportunities. The project tried to adapt to this macro-economic change, but the gradual shift
prolonged the income restoration period. Second, the project areas suffered successive droughts in the last
decade and this has had a severe impact on farming and the restoration of the incomes of resettlers. Third,
project-induced factors caused the base-line income as measured, to be unusually high and this made
restoration even more difficult.

4.1.11   The government is committed to achieving the full restoration of livelihoods for this 30 percent of
rural resettlers. The project has designed a post-resettlement support fund to address the outstanding
issues. This fund has been established and funds were derived from hydropower revenues and a program
developed. However, its operation was affected by insufficient funding because hydropower revenues were
low because of a drought in the Yellow River. The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) and the National
Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) have resolved the funding issue, providing an amount of
between 600-1,000 million yuan. The arrangement is being processed according to government


                                                        - 6 -

administrative procedures and the government has been requested to notify the Bank when the funds have
been transferred to the Fund account. The government has also agreed to maintain the project institutional
arrangement to operate this fund. With this fund in full operation, full restoration of incomes is expected to
be achieved in a few years.

4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1    Component A: Residential and infrastructure reconstruction for villages and towns (Cost:
US$292.9 million estimate at appraisal; US$483.2 million actual) This component was planned to include:
(a) the construction of new villages and replacement housing for rural resettlers; (b) the residential
reconstruction for new towns; (c) the relocation of special institutions; and (d) the reconstruction of
affected infrastructure. The outcome of this component is rated as highly satisfactory.

4.2.2    Residential reconstruction for villages. The project established 227 administrative villages with
a total population of 155,139. All resettlers (except the remaining 1500) have moved into new houses.
Monitoring data indicate that the housing conditions and physical living environment of the resettlers have
substantially improved as a result of the project. All new villages are complete with basic infrastructure
and public facilities, such as power, water supply, drainage and road, schools, clinics, telephone and
broadcasting lines. They have improved access to public services, such as health and education, and better
access to markets, services, information and non-farm job opportunities.

4.2.3    Residential reconstruction for towns. The project required the relocation of twelve towns with a
total population of 17,212, of which 7,693 have agricultural status and 9,519 were urban residents. All of
the affected towns were relocated to new sites nearby with the same administrative jurisdictions and
functions. These new towns were complete with basic infrastructure and public facilities. All the old
towns' populations moved to the new towns.

4.2.4    Relocation of special institutions. The project successfully completed its relocation programs for
the affected special institutions. These included nursery and seed farms, management offices and stations,
and a jail. They were provided with replacement sites and reestablished with compensation funds payment
at reconstruction costs before actual inundation.

4.2.5    Infrastructure reconstruction. All replacement infrastructure sujected ot inundation was
redesigned and reconstructed including roads, transmission lines, communication lines, broadcasting
facilities and water supply works. All new residential areas are serviced with roads, electricity lines,
telephones lines, broadcasting receiving facilities, water supply and drainage facilities.

4.2.6    Component B: Transfer of resettlers (Cost: US$7.3 million estimate at appraisal; US$9.5
million actual) With assistance and guidance from the Yellow River Reconnaissance Planning and Design
Institute and the resettlement offices, the resettlers decided on the layouts of villages and the design and
location within the resettlement areas. Residential plots were allocated in a transparent fashion in the
villages. While village committees were responsible for village infrastructure construction, the resettler
households were responsible for their own house construction. All transfer arrangements were made by
county resettlement offices and information regarding transfer was provided to the resettlers before
relocation. Physical relocation was organized by county resettlement offices with transport. Various
allowances were provided for transport, including medical costs and compensation for missed working
hours. The host governments, as well as farmers made various welcome arrangements for the resettlers.
The transfer process was smooth and the output of the component is rated as satisfactory.




                                                        - 7 -

                                  Table 1: Movement of Rural Resettlers

   Phase          1992-  1995   1996   1997    1998  1999    2000   2001     2002   2003  2004   2010-  Total
                   1994                                                                          2011
 Dam-site SAR       9944                                                                                  9944
          Actual   11652                                                                                 11652
 180m     SAR             7230   7230   7230                                                             21690
          Actual         11549  22776   8100                                                             42425
 265m     SAR                                  26122 26122   26122   26122   26124                       130612
          Actual                               16347 45771   30658   18262       0     0   1676          112714
 275m     SAR                                                                                    17924   17924
          Actual                                                              7650   7850  1700          17200
 Total    SAR       9944  7230   7230   7230   26122 26122   26122   26122   26124               17924   180170
          Actual   11652 11549  22776   8100   16347 45771   30658   18262    7650   7939  3376          184080


4.2.7    Component C: Planning, design and institutional support (Cost: US$11.7 million estimate at
appraisal; US$44.1 million actual) This component was designed to establish the project organizations and
to provide training and institutional support. This component has played a critical role in the planning,
design and implementation of the project. The output of the component is rated as having been highly
satisfactory.

4.2.8    Project staffing and training. All planned resettlement offices were established at provincial,
municipality, county and township level. These offices were provided with all necessary working facilities,
equipment and vehicles. Training was provided to all resettlement officers in various forms including
on-site training, overseas training, local and international study tours, training class and diploma study in
universities. The training covered resettlement planning, financial management, procurement, livelihood
development, and agricultural extension. Project staffing was as follows:

                                         Table 2: Resettlement Staff

                                           SAR                                    ICR (Actual)
           Staff              Henan         Shanxi      Total      Henan          Shanxi    Others    Total
                             Province      Province               Province       Province      *
 In 1992                        101          25          126         101            25         69       195
 Initial phase 1993-94          339          65          404         339            65        138       542
 Middle phase, 1995-2000        939          99         1038        1042           256        207      1505
 Last phase, 2001                32          79          111         554           136        104       794
     *MWRRO, YRCCRO, Design Institute, Monitoring and Evaluation Organization, etc.

4.2.9    Project management system. The Yellow River Water and Hydro Development Corporation
Resettlement Office (YRWHDCRO) established a management system for the project's implementation.
This system extends down to the provincial, municipal and county resettlement offices. It covers financial
management, annual planning management, progress monitoring, reservoir clearance, procurement,
disbursement, completion inspection and auditing. The YRWHDCRO also developed a set of management
regulations and procedures covering annual planning and design, planning and design review procedures,
progress reporting, disbursement, procurement, reservoir clearance, completion inspection, grievance
redress, independent monitoring, resettlement supervision, environment and public health monitoring.
Project staff at the YRWHDCRO, provincial, prefecture and county levels have all been assigned to follow
through the implementation of these rules and regulations.

4.2.10   Planning and design. The Reconnaissance Planning and Design Institute (RPDI) is the design
institute for the whole of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project. The RPDI carried out the detailed designs
jointly with the provincial, prefecture and county resettlement offices, including inventory updating,



                                                      - 8 -

compensation rate evaluation, assessment of carrying capacity of different resettlement sites, feasibility of
different resettlement alternatives, as well as the cost estimates. The RPDI has been in charge of the
technical review and approval of all resettlement designs and their revisions. Its role continued through the
implementation process. The effective functioning of the RPDI has ensured the quality and efficiency of
the detailed planning and design process, and helped significantly with consensus building and coordination
in the implementation process.

4.2.11   Independent monitoring. Independent monitoring of the resettlement implementation process is
an important part of the project management system. As defined in the Credit Agreement, the North China
Water Conservancy and Hydropower Institute was appointed in 1994 as the Independent Monitor to carry
out socio- economic monitoring of the resettlement program. The independent monitoring was carried out
in line with the "Social Economic Monitoring Guideline for Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project" and the
"Implementation Plan of the Social Economic Monitoring of Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project" developed
and agreed with the YRWHDCRO and the International Development Association (IDA). It covered
various aspects of the resettlement program for both the resettlers and the host population, and provided
both timely feed-back for resettlement management and a sound basis for final evaluation of the
resettlement implementation.

4.2.12   Resettlement Supervision. Replicating the practice of a supervising engineer in civil works
construction, the YRWHDCRO appointed the Resettlement Bureau of Yellow River Conservancy
Commission as the Resettlement Supervisor for the project. The supervisor started working in June 1996
with the establishment of a supervising team and six supervising stations in the field. The supervision
covered all aspects of the resettlement implementation including resettlement physical progress, fund
allocation and use, construction quality and specifications, contract management and coordination. The
supervision was carried out from the field stations through regular site visits, interviews and meetings as
well as the review of progress reports.

4.2.13   International Environment and Resettlement Panel of Experts. The YRWHDCRO established
this panel in 1994 to assist in the implementation of the resettlement and environmental aspects of the
project. The panel consists of domestic and international experts and the panel's composition changed
during different phases of the project when the perceived needs and advice had also changed. The panel
has convened twelve times and produced twelve reports. In general, the panel played a useful role in the
project management and provided good advice in its implementation and management.

4.2.14   Component D: Livelihood Development (Cost: US$257.1 million estimate at appraisal;
US$295.7 million actual). This was the core component of the project. It was to re-establish the resettlers
in their livelihoods (i.e., 50 percent in farming, 29 percent in industrial jobs, 11 percent state farm
enterprise workers and 10 percent government employees). However, the expected shift in rural China to
non-farming activities actually happened faster and consequently design changes in this component were
made at the time of the Mid-Term Review (MTR). This component has been completed as designed. The
output of this component is considered generally satisfactory.

4.2.15   Re-establishment of Livelihoods in Agriculture. This component comprised irrigation and
dryland development and the re-establishment of side-line activities to achieve a 5-10 percent increase in
per capita income for both the resettlers and host farming communities. The land replacement and
development programs have been completed with the land compensation fund, including land developed in
the Wenmengtan and Houhe Irrigation area. The project has purchased 197,468 mu (1 ha = 15 mu) of
farm land for the resettlers with part of the compensation funds for their lost land. This includes 112,995
mu of irrigated land. On average, the project has achieved the target of average land holding per relocatee


                                                      - 9 -

at 1.2 mu.

4.2.16  It should be noted that resettler household land-holding varies between relocating villages. Data
also reveals that only 169 villages have reached the designed target of per capita farm land holding, about
75 percent of the total. Monitoring reports indicate that those villages which have not purchased sufficient
land have invested the land compensation funds in on-farm irrigation facilities or alternative non-farm
income-generation activities. These activities are extensive, including side-line activities, cash crops, small
livestock, fishery, agro-processing, aquatic poultry and small industrial ventures. These activities helped
farmers generate more share of the resettler income than expected.

                               Table 3: Farmland Allocation For Resettlers

 Province/County                                                 Actual
                                  Land Per Capita (mu)                     Total Land allocation (mu)
                               Total         Of which irrigated land       Total          Of which irrigated land
    Reservoir Total             1.39                 0.80                 197468                 112995
    Henan Province              1.37                 0.93                 158995                 108059
 Jiyuan City                    1.01                 0.87                  29281                   25111
 Menjing County                 1.29                 0.17                  12056                   1635
 Xinan County                   1.31                 0.18                  19437                   2653
 Yima City                                                                   339                    339
 Wenxian County                 1.43                 1.43                  17715                  17685
 Menzhou City                   1.47                 1.45                  45873                  45301
 Zhongmou County                1.36                 1.29                   2653                   2513
 Yuanyang County                1.1                  1.07                   4506                   4395
 Kaifeng County                 2.63                 2.63                   7884                   7884
 Mianchi County                 1.95                                       17911
 Shanxian County                1.22                 0.49                   1340                    543
    Shanxi Province             1.48                 0.19                  38473                   4936
 Yuanqu County                  1.44                 0.20                  34964                   4936
 Pinglu County                  2.08                   0                    2724                    0
 Xiaxian County                 1.8                    0                     785                    0



4.2.17  Wenmengtan Scheme. This scheme was designed to create farm land for 42,000 resettlers
through the construction of dykes and a land reclamation and improvement program. To reclaim the area
on the flood plain of the Yellow River, 118 spur dikes and 52.98 km of flood control embankment were
completed. The warping and reclamation yielded about 200,000 mu of land of which 62,000 mu was farm
land. The reclaimed land is protected from floods through the embankments. The reclaimed area had a
system of tube-wells for irrigation and drainage. The developed land was allocated to the resettlers. This
scheme was successfully completed and its outputs are rated as satisfactory.

4.2.18  Houhe Reservoir Scheme. The scheme included completion of the Houhe Dam and irrigation
system to irrigate an area of 75,000 mu of land. The dam is a 75 m high concrete gravity-type dam with a
central spillway and a lateral outflow tunnel which connects to the main canal of the irrigation scheme.
The irrigation scheme consists of a 58 km main canal, twelve branch canals (191 km) and irrigation of
75,000 mu of farmland, of which 12,300 mu is allocated to the resettlers, 50,000 mu is allocated to the
impacted host villages and 12,700 mu is for host people out of the project area. The entire component took
eight years to complete, longer than planned, but the final completed works are excellent. As a result of an
inter-agency coordination and financing dispute, the completion of the irrigation system was significantly
delayed and this has affected the farmers' livelihood development activities.


                                                    - 10 -

4.2.19   Although this component is completed as designed, income restoration will take longer than
expected for the 30 percent of rural resettlers. The project implemented its land-and-agriculture based
strategy for income generation, supplemented by non-farm employment. This included payment of a
compensation fund and the provision of replacement land. The other factor that affected income growth
was the desire for villagers to invest a significant portion of their livelihood compensation to high quality
sound infrastructure like schools, clinics, and public facilities. Monitoring and supervision reports indicate
that the resettler villages have started extensive farm and off-farm livelihood development programs.
Monitoring data also reveal that around 75 percent of the affected population have improved or restored
their income level and the rest have reached up to 80 percent of their previous income level. Because of the
government commitment through the post-resettlement support fund, it is expected that these people will
recover their previous levels of income in the next few years.

4.2.20   Industrial and Side-line Development. It was planned to move about 21,070 farmers into the
non-farm sector and 20,528 of them were expected to be provided with new jobs through the establishment
of 84 county and township enterprises. During implementation the government reassessed the feasibility
and risks of this resettlement component and decided to scale down the county industrial resettlement
program. Adjustment was made during the MTR to replace the industrial component with a
land-and-agriculture based program and sideline and village industry development. Some of the planned
investments were implemented and some villages also made village non-farm investment with the land
compensation fund. These enterprises are estimated to have provided 2,332 jobs for the resettlers.

4.2.21   Re-establishment of Factories, Mines and Other Enterprises. This included the moving and
reconstruction of existing manufacturing and mining operations. The inundation affected 789 enterprises
including thirteen county enterprises, 105 township enterprises, 446 village enterprises and 225 private
enterprises, of which 547 were engaged in mining and the rest were in brick-making, agro-processing and
small manufacturing. All village and private enterprises were small work-shops with only temporary
employees. The project completed compensation payments for all. Most of the small village and private
operations have taken up their re-establishment on their own with the cash compensation. The project
offices successfully implemented the relocation and reconstruction of the few big manufacturing and mining
enterprises which have either restarted their operations or have switched to new operations. All 3,846
long-term or regular employees have been re-employed in the same enterprises. Additionally, there are
2,332 resettler laborers employed in the new enterprises as long-term contract workers.

4.2.22   Activity 1: Social Adjustment. This activity was to integrate all social adjustment issues into the
planning and design of the different phases of the resettlement program. These relate to farming support
services, training and assistance in non-farm employment, consideration of host concerns, transfer
arrangements, interaction with the host villages, essential services in the resettlement areas, and
consultation with and assistance to women. These considerations and programs were not only incorporated
into the plan and design of different phases of the resettlement but were also implemented with care during
the actual resettlement and rehabilitation process. Tremendous efforts have been devoted to ensuring that
the resettled groups and the host population are smoothly and well integrated socially, economically and
culturally. This output of this activity is rated as satisfactory.

4.2.23   Activity 2: Consultation, Participation and Grievance Redress. The project followed a highly
consultative and participatory process in its planning, design and implementation. The project implemented
its information disclosure strategy. All media channels were mobilized to disseminate project information
for consultation and participation purpose. Information disseminated related to the project, resettlement
policies, compensation rates and measures, household inventory, resettlement alternatives and site designs,


                                                      - 11 -

and the grievance channel. While the government and the design institutes played the leading role, the
resettler communities were the actual driving force in the project. Resettlers participated in the inventory
and census, planning and design as well as the implementation of their respective resettlement sites and
livelihood development programs. The planned grievance redress mechanism was established with assigned
staff and an operational regulation. The project followed the grievance procedures. The project
management also maintained a continuous presence in the field to facilitate early identification and fast
resolution of grievances. In general, this system functioned effectively to facilitate smooth implementation.
The project practices in this regard are exemplary in reservoir resettlement.

4.2.24   Activity 3: Gender and Vulnerable Groups. Women, children and vulnerable groups account
for the majority of the resettlers. Women participated in the entire process of project planning and
implementation. Women also play an important and active role in income-generation activities. It is
estimated that about 34,600 women participated in various activities of skill training. The project had 466
women staff at various levels of the project offices and they participated actively in the project
management. There were 29,239 children (ages 7-16) relocated, about 17 percent of the total. All
resettlement villages have improved access to education and health facilities, with much improved study
environments and medical treatment. School attendance has reached 100 percent with a few exceptions.
Vulnerable groups refer to the old, disabled, households with people suffering from chronic diseases,
households without labor, the widowed and the extreme poor. The project identified 1,568 such
households, containing about 3 percent of the total resettler population. The project made special budget
provisions to help with their resettlement. All of them have received their resettlement entitlements and
have all moved into new houses with assistance under the project. Particular care was taken of the old and
widowed people. Sixty-two nursing homes have been established in the resettlement areas for the old and
widowed people. .

4.2.25   Activity 4: Environmental Management (Cost: US$3.5 million estimate at appraisal, US$8.4
million actual) This activity was designed to address the environmental impacts associated with the
resettlement program through the implementation of the agreed Environment Management Plan (EMP).
The government established an environment management system which has been effective in the EMP
implementation. Under the EMP, the project completed: (a) the provision and operation of the
environmental and public health facilities in all new resettlement villages; (b) the management of the
environmental impacts of established enterprises; (c) the management of the environmental impacts of
resettlement activities in the host areas; (d) the monitoring of the EMP implementation, water quality in
resettlement villages and public health of both resettlers and host population; and (e) the management of
reservoir clearance. In 2001, a Bank environmental thematic supervision mission rated the project as being
very satisfactory.

4.2.26   Activity 5: Cultural Relics Protection. This activity was to complete the phased planning of
cultural relics protection measures and to implement the approved action plans. The government mobilized
national experts and established a multi-level institutional structure to implement this activity. The project
completed: (a) the planning and design of protection measures for different phases of resettlement; (b) field
surveys that identified 180 sites of cultural significance; (c) drill-exploration of 3.26 million m of the area
and excavation of 327,000 m; and (d) protective and preservation measures for identified cultural relics.
They included complete relocation, partial relocation, modeling and treatment of the unearthed cultural
relics as well as documentation and follow-up study of the underground findings. The total cost of this
component was 35.26 million yuan. This output of this activity is rated as having been satisfactory.




                                                      - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    This free-standing resettlement project included an economic development component to ensure
restoration and improvement of resettler livelihoods. Of the total investments of US$840 million, 35
percent (US$295 million) were for infrastructure development, land acquisition for productive purposes
and commercialization projects. Of this livelihood development, a significant portion of the investments
(47 percent, US$140.9 million) was for infrastructure and 50 percent (US$146.4 million) was for land
acquisition and for special side-line activities (see Annex 3, Table 2). Infrastructure investments have
already boosted incomes and enhanced side-line activities such as animal husbandry and, in some cases,
aquaculture development. Most of these investments were for land development, irrigation and soil
improvement. The economic rates of return (ERR) from these investments are between 12.7 and 18.8
percent. These returns are quite robust and indicate that the projects are economically sustainable and will
generate farm incomes which will restore their livelihoods.

4.4 Financial rate of return:


4.4.1    The financial rates of return for irrigation are not applicable in this project. Financial assessments
has been reviewed for livelihood reestablishment and these are presented in Annex 3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


4.5.1    The project had significant institutional impacts in the water sector regarding reservoir resettlement
in China. These impacts can be summarized as follows:

(a)      The institutional structure involved 1,505 staff at ministry, provincial, municipal, county and
township levels during the peak time. They received training on various subjects related to project
management and resettlement implementation. Many of the staff have made local or international study
trips. Frequent visits and interactions with international experts have also given them greater exposure to
international best practice and standards.

(b)      As part of the management system, the government developed various rules, regulations and
guidelines to manage the project. They were related to financial management and accounting, resettlement
planning and design, information disclosure and grievance redress, environment management, livelihood
development, cultural relics protection, reservoir clearance, resettlement completion inspection, acceptance
and hand-over to local government. These contributed to local capacity build-up.

(c)      This project has piloted several initiatives in reservoir resettlement planning and implementation.
They include mechanisms of independent resettlement monitoring and resettlement supervision, engagement
of the environmental supervising engineer and village environmental officers as well as independent design
institutes during resettlement implementation. These proved to have played important roles in the
successful project implementation and are of much value in reservoir resettlement planning and
implementation.




                                                       - 13 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    In the mid-1990s, the macro-economic situation worsened for rural county industries and this
triggered a re-evaluation of the feasibility of the planned industrial resettlement component. Considering
the high market risks, the proposed new industrial investments were cancelled and the industrial
resettlement component was replaced with a land-and-agriculture based program and sideline development
(commercial agriculture, hot houses and livestock development, etc.)

5.1.2    In the past decade, farmers experienced challenges as the share of agricultural output fell, causing
reduced growth or even a fall of farm income and the rural resettlers, like most farmers in China turned
their attention to side-lines and non-farm opportunities which became an important source of household
income.

5.1.3    The past decade also saw successive natural disasters in the project areas, including drought and
flood, which reduced farm incomes and further slowed down income recovery for some project resettlers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


5.2.1    Strong government commitment. This was vital to the completion of the project and to the
sustainable development of the resettler and host communities. This was demonstrated through: (a)
providing the required financial resources for the project completion, particularly when the cost increased
substantially; (b) mobilizing all other relevant government agencies in the project areas to join in the project
implementation efforts; and (c) instituting an extensive monitoring and supervision effort.

5.2.2    Long review process of the revised budget. The government up-dated the project inventory of
impacts during 1995-1996. This up-date showed a significant increase in project impacts that contributed
to a big increase in project costs. The up-dated inventory and the revised project cost went through several
reviews within the government, which took a long time and the project funds were disbursed on an advance
basis to ensure smooth project implementation. Though the project was not delayed by funding shortages,
the slow approval process caused confusion in budget allocation, delayed disclosure of the revised budget
and created difficulties for inspection at completion.

5.2.3    Inter-agency coordination. Inter-agency coordination was generally good with a few exceptions
where lack of coordination and agreement significantly delayed completion of two dated covenants.
Disagreement over funding, among other factors, delayed the completion of the Houhe Irrigation System by
five years. The project followed the government's policy and established a post-relocation support fund.
Though the fund had been established as legally covenanted, its effective operation ran into technical
difficulties that could have been resolved earlier according to the policy.




                                                      - 14 -

5.2.4    Village self-administration and village politics. The project implementation period coincided
with the government's push for village self-administration. This democratic process promoted transparency
and the participation of the farmers in village decision-making, but in some villages this also led to
unilateral decisions by village committees not to adhere to construction design standards in village
development and to a relaxation of government supervision responsibility. This resulted in
over-construction of village infrastructure in some villages and non-productive investment from the land
compensation fund that depleted village resources for sustainable livelihood development. The last decade
also saw a re-emergence of traditional family lineage influences that played an increasingly significant role
in village decision-making. Family rivalry in village politics increased difficulties and complexities in
building consensus in the resettlement planning process and contributed to some of the outstanding issues.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    Strong commitment and action within the implementing agencies enabled the mobilization of
human resources and the development and implementation of a comprehensive management system.

5.4 Costs and financing:


5.4.1    The project costs experienced significant increases during implementation. The total cost was
estimated at US$571 million at appraisal. With the inventory up-date during 1995-1996, the project cost
was revised and up-dated to US$840 million during the MTR. The cost increase was mainly the result of:
(a) the increase in the number of resettlers; (b) this in turn generated an increase in the quanties of physical
investment needed (eg more housing, streets, drainage ; electricity); and (c) the increase of market prices
and compensation rates. The project census and inventory was done by the inundation line at the feasibility
study stage. However, detailed design revealed the need to resettle some additional administrative villages
on the inundation line. This is the main reason the number of resettlers in the project increased. Rapid
economic development, even after the order to stop construction within the reservoir area, significantly
increased the quantities of infrastructure andcompensation, particularly structures and for village
enterprises. At the strong request of local governments, the central government agreed to up-date the
project design on the basis of the up-dated impact inventory, the latest market prices and the increased
compensation rates. Project financing arrangements remained the same as appraised. IDA financing
remained at 79.9 million SDR, while the Central Government of China provided the rest of the project
financing.

                          Table 4: Component Cost Summary (US$ million)

                     Component                           Appraisal       Actual Cost         Percentage of
                                                          Estimate                             Appraisal
 Resettlement
  Planning and Design                                         11.7           44.1                 376.1
  Residential and Infrastructure Construction                292.9          483.2                 165.0
  Transfer of Relocatees                                       7.3             9.5                130.1
  Livelihood Development                                     257.1          295.7                 115.0
Environmental Management                                       3.5             8.4                240.0
 Total Baseline & Contingency Costs                          571.2          840.9                 147.2
 Total Project Costs                                         571.2          840.9                 147.2




                                                       - 15 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


6.1.1   The project is highly likely to be sustainable considering the achievements under each of the
components and activities, and sustainability is further enhanced by the commitment from the government
for post-relocation support to the resettlers. This is also confirmed by early phases of the resettlement
program. A number of factors contributes to the sustainability of the project's achievements:

(a)     The resettlement planning and design followed a development approach. This is reflected in: (a)
        the objective of not only just restoring income, but improving the overall living standard of the
        affected population; (b) detailed development measures; and (c) adequate financing of the
        resettlement program.

(b)     The Xiaolangdi Multi-purpose Project enjoyed high public endorsement. The resettlement program
        has received public support from all sectors, including the host governments and population.

(c)     Xiaolangdi resettlement followed a consultative and participatory planning, design and
        implementation process. This process ensured that the resettlement program was built on the full
        understanding of the social, cultural and economic characteristics of the affected population, who
        participated actively in this program.

(d)     The project has delivered all the elements for future sustainable development, including
        replacement houses, basic infrastructure, public facilities and farm land.

(e)     The new resettler villages are fully functional in terms of the elected village governments and
        schools, village clinics, village offices are all operating. Power and water supply and sanitation and
        environmental facilities (such as rubbish collection and disposal and drainage out of the villages)
        are operational. The incidence of infectious diseases in the new resettler villages is only 5 percent
        that experienced in the pre-resettlement sites, because of improved environmental conditions.

(f)     All vulnerable groups of people (including the old, widowed, single women, and children) have
        been catered for through special targeted government and community efforts under the project.

(g)     The resettlement villages are well integrated into the host population both socially and
        economically. The host county and township governments actually implemented the resettlement
        program. Livelihood development for the resettlers was carried out under the general guidance of
        local social and economic development plans and was well incorporated into the local economies.

(h)     Resettlement locations are generally more favorable for future development. This was one of the
        planning principles. The majority of the resettlement villages are at convenient locations, closer to
        towns. The new locations provide better access to market information and more opportunities for
        non-farm employment.

(i)     Although almost all of the objectives have been achieved, the government is committed to the full
        achievement of the project objectives, especially on income restoration for the small portion, who
        have not achieved their income target. This commitment is reflected in the extensive support
        provided to the resettlers and the agreed post-relocation livelihood support program.



                                                      - 16 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:


6.2.1    The resettlement program was implemented by phases. Each phase of the program was reviewed
at its completion. The last one was carried out according to a guideline issued for this project by the
Ministry of Water Resources at the end of 2003. There will be one final state inspection by the NDRC in
mid-2004. The project has essentially been handed over to the local governments, although formal
hand-over will take place after the final state inspection. The host governments implemented the entire
resettlement program. They had ownership of the resettlement program from the beginning, and extended
social and economic services to the resettlers. Transfer arrangements have virtually been seamless.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    The Bank's performance from project preparation to implementation was satisfactory. During the
preparation stage, the Bank assisted with local and international expertise in reviewing the project designs,
resettlement action plans, environmental impact assessment and management plans, and in establishing the
implementation and monitoring system. This assistance proved important in confirming the project design
and resettlement strategy.

7.2 Supervision:


7.2.1    The Bank regularly supervised the project and attached high priority to its implementation. The
Bank carried out twenty-four supervision missions (averaging two per year) to review project
implementation. Bank supervision proved to be of critical value in adjusting and modifying the
resettlement strategy during project implementation, identifying key issues to be addressed and working
with relevant offices and ministries to find solutions to resolve these issues, particularly in bringing about
quicker resolution of inter-agency disputes and policy decisions. Overall, Bank supervision brought
significant added value to the project implementing agencies to ensure materialization of the project target.
Regular and frequent Bank supervision affected project achievement positively.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


7.3.1    The Bank's overall performance is considered to have been satisfactory. It was able to assist the
MWR and the YRWHDCRO in project preparation and to advise and guide the implementing agencies to
overcome critical bottlenecks. These efforts have contributed significantly to the generally successful
completion of the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The government's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The MWR and the
YRWHDC worked jointly with the provincial and local governments and developed a coordinated
resettlement strategy and action plan. Initial surveys started as early as 1986 and were up-dated in 1992.
However, given considerable macro-economic developments in the period 1992-1994, the YRWHDC
undertook a resurvey in 1994-1995 and confirmed a big increase in impacts and project costs. The project
design was up-dated accordingly in the MTR. All parties, from the MWR to villages, participated in the
detailed designs and implementation plans. The government maintained a flexible approach for the phased



                                                      - 17 -

plans and designs to accommodate new requests and necessary changes.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


7.5.1     The overall performance of the government in implementation was good. All project offices were
established as designed and were staffed adequately. A management system was developed and
implemented for supervision and monitoring purposes. Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project went through a
complicated, robust and highly participatory implementation process. It had actual implementation, phased
planning and design for different phases of the resettlement program all going on simultaneously. The
YRWHDCRO and provincial resettlement offices successfully managed this process and completed the
resettlement program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


7.6.1     The YRWHDC under the MWR provided sufficient funding to ensure smooth implementation.
The YRWHDC appointed the RPDI as the designer at central government level to review and approve all
major changes and revisions to the resettlement design. This proved an important quality and cost control
measure in this participatory process. The YRWHDC appointed the YRCCRO as the supervision engineer
to supervise the construction undertaken by the counties. This proved particularly important in ensuring
the quality of works and land development for each resettlement site. In addition, the YRWHDC appointed
the North China Water Conservancy and Hydropower Institute as the Independent Monitor and the RPDI
Environmental Department to supervise the environmental aspects, especially the public health of each
resettlement site during the implementation process. These additional supervision mechanisms proved
critical in the project management system.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


7.7.1     Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The government's commitment to the
success of the project was exceptionally good. The Borrower was dynamic enough to make major changes
to the project scope after the resurvey of the project area and provided the required financing. The MWR
had coordination meetings at each critical stage of the project and ensured that all issues were resolved.
The project essentially suffered no delays.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1       This project is the first free-standing resettlement project the Bank has ever financed. This project
has accumulated many successful experiences, and the most important lessons learned are the following:

(a)       Resettlement with development is instrumental to the success and sustainability of a resettlement
          program. With this approach, the project aimed not only to relocate people, but also to ensure an
          improved and sustainable livelihood for the affected population This is reflected in the project
          objective, design principles, and whole implementation process, as well as the government's
          commitment to post-relocation support to the resettlers.

(b)       Strong government commitment is critical to the successful implementation of the project. The
          government established and staffed an extensive institutional structure, provided timely and
          sufficient funding for the resettlement program and continued a policy on post-relocation support
          activities. These ensured the smooth implementation and sustainable development for the resettler
          and host populations.


                                                        - 18 -

(c)  Adequate institutional capacity and effective management systems are conditions for success.
     There was much knowledge and rich experience before the project in reservoir resettlement
     planning with the MWR, Henan and Shanxi provinces, the YRCCRO and the RPDI. These proved
     an asset for the project. Under the project, the government established a multilevel organization for
     the resettlement implementation, with a total 1,505 staff, and extensive training was provided to
     support them.

(d)  Independent supervision and monitoring mechanism proved to be important in reservoir
     resettlement management. The project included an independent monitor, a resettlement supervisor,
     a public health monitor, an environment supervising engineer and an international panel of experts.
     These strengthened the implementation capacity and improved the efficiency and effectiveness of
     the project management system.

(e)  It is necessary and important to maintain the technical service of the project design institute. The
     RPDI continued its involvement in resettlement implementation as technical advisor and reviewer
     of resettlement plans and designs. It provided important services in revising and optimizing the
     project design. This proved to be critically necessary, particularly with the participatory planning
     and implementation approach.

(f)  Reservoir resettlement has to follow a consultative and participatory process for its design and
     implementation. This process was adopted in the project and enabled the full participation of the
     resettler communities so that their concerns, requests and needs were integrated into the
     resettlement design.

(g)  Timely funding is key in successful implementation. The project never experienced funding
     shortages and this ensured its timely and smooth implementation. However, most of the funds were
     disbursed on an advanced basis due to the late approval of the revised budget. This created
     confusion and difficulties in implementation.

(h)  The implementation of the project proved that smooth and successful implementation require close
     and good coordination between various local governments and government agencies. This
     coordination was mostly good in the project, with a few exceptions where resettlement was
     substantially delayed.

(i)  Active and early participation of the host population is important and necessary. In the project, the
     host governments not only participated in the resettlement planning and design process, but also
     implemented the program itself. This helped create a smooth transition of the resettler programs
     into the normal operations and promote the social and economic integration of the resettlers into the
     host population.

(j)  Livelihood development should always be the core of a resettlement program. Given the scale of
     resettlement, much focus was devoted to the physical construction and relocation component of the
     resettlement program. This led to a late start of the livelihood development programs and the slow
     livelihood recovery. It is important that livelihood development be given equal attention at the start
     of the project implementation.




                                                  - 19 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Project Background

Xiaolangdi Resettlement Program was phased into four stages for implementation, i.e., Dam-site, Reservoir
Phase I, II and III. The World Bank financed Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project covered only Reservoir
Phase I and II. According to the inventory update in 1994, the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project affected 29
townships in 8 counties/cities of Jiyuan, Mengjin and Xinan in Luoyang Municipality, Mianchi of
Sanmengxia Municipality, Yuanqu, Xiaxian and Pinglu of Yuancheng Municipality. Twelve towns, 43
institutions above township government level, 182 administrative villages, 789 manufacturing and mining
enterprises were required to be relocated. The project inundated 7.25 million square meters of housing,
381,870 mu of land (including 181,709 mu of irrigated land), 12 mini hydro-stations, 658 km of canals,
688 km of roads, 548 km of communication lines and 109 cultural relics sites. The total re-settler
population was 172,487.

The resettlement program affected a host population of 545,000 in 397 villages in 59 townships in Yima,
Mengzhou, Wenxian, Yuanyang, Zhongmou and Kaifeng counties. The project also completed the
Wenmengtan river training and land development program, the Houhe Dam and the irrigation area
development program for the project resettlement.

The preliminary design of the resettlement program was completed during 1986-1991. During 1997-1998,
the Ministry of Water Resources and the State Planning Commission reviewed and approved the technical
design and budget of the resettlement program. The total project cost was 8.03 billion Chinese yuan,
including US$110 million of IDA credit.

Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project followed a management model based on "leadership of MWR,
management by the project owner, provinces contracted for implementation and county as the basic unit for
implementation". The Ministry of Water Resources was responsible for the overall coordination of the
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project. The YRWHDC established a resettlement bureau to be responsible for
the project management. Henan, Shanxi Provinces, all project counties and cities also established
resettlement offices to be responsible for their part of the resettlement work under their respective
governments. The Yellow River Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Company (the former RPDI), the
Yellow River Engineering Consulting and Supervision Company (the former YRCCRO), and the Henan
China Water Consulting Firm were contracted as the designer, supervisor and independent monitor of the
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project. As requested by the World Bank, an international environment and
resettlement panel of experts was established to provide consultancy to the project.

Project Implementation

According to the dam construction and the designed reservoir operation mode, dam-site resettlement was
completed during 1991-1994. Reservoir Phase I resettlement started in 1994 and was completed in June
1997. Reservoir Phase II resettlement started in 1998 and was completed by June 2001. Reservoir Phase
III resettlement started in 2002 and was completed end of 2003.

According to the preliminary completion review, the project has moved 198,000 people, established 247
resettlement sites, built 6.25 million square meters of housing for the re-settlers, allocated 204,000 mu of



                                                      - 20 -

farm land; relocated 11 towns, completed the development of designed infrastructure (such as roads, power
supply, communication lines, broadcasting lines etc.), completed relocation of enterprises, reservoir
clearance, treatment of cultural relics and filing management according to their plans and relevant
regulations.

The project has put much emphasis on the livelihood development of the re-settlers. The project has played
an active role in guiding and supporting re-settlers in the land development, adjusting production patterns,
promoting planting industry, animal husbandry and side-line development. The project also promoted third
and tertiary industries, such service industries and organized labor export. These assistance have helped
re-settlers broaden their income generating opportunities.

Residential and infrastructure development has been completed in the relocated villages and towns.
Construction standards are substantially higher than before and have met the needs of the re-settlers. The
project has completed compensation payment for the enterprises and institutions. Part of the enterprises
were relocated, part combined and part cancelled. All the non-farm employees have been properly
resettled.

Project Implementation Evaluation.

We have reviewed carefully the Implementation Completion Report prepared by the World Bank. We
concur with its content and basic conclusions. At the same time, in January 2004, the MWR and the two
provincial governments conducted the preliminary national evaluation and acceptance for the
implementation completion of the project. The evaluation concludes that the Xiaolangdi Resettlement
Project completed all planned tasks and the overall quality is good. The project environmental protection
work also passed the evaluation of the State Environmental Protection Agency. Main conclusions of the
evaluation are as follows:

   Following a management model based on "leadership of MWR, management of project owner,
    contracts with provinces for implementation and county as the basis for implementation", Xiaolangdi
    Resettlement Project adopted a development approach for resettlement with the basic principle of
    "putting people first" and implemented a scientific implementation system. The project paid much
    attention to the up-front planning and design work, reinforced the management function of the
    YRWHDCRO, strengthened the contracting and responsibility system of local governments,
    established independent monitoring and supervision mechanisms and placed much emphasis on
    planning and financial management. In this way, the resettlement program followed the same
    management approach for engineering works. Through strengthening the preparatory work, the
    resettlement progress met the need for the dam construction and its effective functioning. Resettlement
    work achieved good results. Towns and infrastructure were rehabilitated and improved. There was
    good control over the project investment. Re-settlers are generally happy, and good and harmonious
    social orders have materialized in the resettlement areas. All participating parties tried to pilot new
    practice in the resettlement work and have accumulated rich experiences in resettlement, particularly in
    applying international management practices. These are of good value to resettlement work in other
    engineering projects in China.

   The re-settlers' living conditions have achieved obvious improvement. Rural re-settlers have completed
    relocation. All resettlement sites have been established, with residential housing and infrastructure
    completed. Farm land has been generally delivered to the re-settlers according to the quantity and
    quality designed. Productive measures are already in place and livelihood development has achieved



                                                     - 21 -

  good preliminary result with positive prospect for future development. All household compensation
  funds have been paid and nearly all compensation funds for village assets have also been delivered to
  the villages in an open and transparent fashion. There is also a clear policy for post-resettlement
  support. The re-settlers have been properly resettled and most of them are satisfied with the
  resettlement status. Good and harmonious social orders have been achieved.

 The relocation of towns, above-township institutions, reconstruction of special schemes in the reservoir
  and host areas and the treatment of manufacturing and mining enterprises were carried out according to
  their plans and designs formulated on the basis of government procedures for capital construction..
  They have restored or exceeded their previous functions. All have been reviewed for completion and
  handed over to their responsible agencies.

 Both provincial resettlement offices have organized their respective municipal and county resettlement
  offices and carried out reservoir clearances according to relevant technical guidelines for reservoir
  clearance. They have completed reservoir clearances for EL 180 m, EL 180-215 m, EL 215-234 m,
  EL 235-265 m, EL 265-275 m. All these clearances passed through their completion reviews and
  ensured the normal operation of the reservoir.

 There was a sound financial management system for resettlement funds. Financial disbursements were
  basically conducted according to the stipulated procedures and they were subject to an internal and
  external monitoring. Fund allocations were normally timely and managed according to the established
  rules.

 Wenmengtan Scheme started in October 1993 and all major civil works were completed at the end of
  2000. During 1995-2000, the warping and land improvement programs were completed by districts.
  Each district was reviewed at completion for compliance with the design standards and handed over to
  local governments according relevant regulations. This satisfied the need for resettlement. The entire
  program passed the MWR completion review in December 2003. The Houhe Dam and Irrigation
  Scheme started construction in October 1996 and was completed in June 2003. The YRWHDC and
  the Water Conservancy Department of Shanxi Province organized the completion review and then
  handed over the scheme to Houhe Reservoir Management Bureau of Yuncheng Municipality.
  Re-settlers have benefited from this scheme.

 Cultural relics treatment was completed according the plan approved by the state. The authorized
  agency issued the permit for impounding.

 There was a sound system for file management, with appropriate filing measures and management
  procedures. Project files were representative of the resettlement work at different phases. File folders
  were well organized, managed and properly maintained.

 The project attached great importance to environmental protection work. There was a comprehensive
  environmental management system. The project, for the first time in China, introduced the environment
  supervision mechanism and village environment officers. The project also provided training to
  environmental officers at various levels. The project also promoted the use of two-pit toilets in
  resettlement villages. The project paid much attention to public health and environment monitoring.
  These measures have effectively prevented the outbreak of epidemic diseases.




                                                  - 22 -

Evaluation of World Bank Performance

After the appraisal of the Xiaolangdi Multi-purpose Project, the World Bank appraised the Xiaolangdi
Resettlement Project in 1993 and signed the Credit Agreement for Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project in June
1994. Since then, the World Bank supervised the project implementation twice a year.

   Project identification. The World Bank adhered strictly to its policy requirements in project
    identification and listened to the government for its specific technical opinions. The Bank provided
    necessary support in the project preparation and studied together with their government counterparts to
    establish the project objective, determine the project scope, credit amount, project cost, disbursement
    ratio and various implementation measures. World Bank experts have made many field visits to the
    project areas and assisted in the project preparation.

   Project preparation and appraisal. In order to prepare the project smoothly, the World Bank sent
    many missions to support the government in the project feasibility study and provided assistance and
    training to the government technical staff. These helped the government's timely completion of the
    project preparation and feasibility study. The World Bank appraised the project in 1993. They studied
    the project planning content, technical assistance, organization, management model, government
    commitment, cost estimate, benefit analysis, etc, and completed the project staff appraisal report. The
    World Bank collaborated closely with the government counter-parts during the project preparation and
    ensured the smooth completion of the pre-appraisal and appraisal of the project.

   Project supervision. Since the start of project implementation in 1994 and until 2004, the World Bank
    sent 17 missions and supervised the project's implementation closely. The World Bank discussed the
    identified issues with the Chinese counter-parts and provide sound recommendations to address them.
    The World Bank staff have been particularly keen on issues directly related to re-settlers' rights and
    entitlements. The Bank missions conducted their investigation and supervision through field visits to
    project cities, counties and villages. Their hard-working and thorough attitude has left deep
    impressions on their Chinese counterparts. They have contributed to the resolution of some major
    issues such as the land quality issue in Wenmengtan and the land leveling issue in Houhe Irrigation
    Areas. The World Bank also assisted the government to hold various training workshops on
    resettlement and environment management. These have helped with the improvement of our
    management and technical staff. Direct support from the World Bank is one of the bases for the
    smooth implementation of the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project.

Overall Evaluation of World Bank Performance

Since the involvement of the World Bank in the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project, there were some advanced
concepts and approaches introduced and reflected in the implementation of the project. There were big
improvements in the quality of resettlement implementation and management. These are reflected in the
following:

l Thorough and in-depth preparation work, participation of re-settlers, the concept of environmental
    carrying-capacity and selection of alternative options laid a solid basis for the preparation work of the
    project.

l Assistance in establishing a complete and comprehensive management system strengthened the
    management function of the project owner, supervision mechanism of the independent monitor and




                                                    - 23 -

    resettlement supervisor, and ensured the smooth implementation of the project.

l Tracking the resolution of major issues in implementation ensured the re-settlers' interests are
    protected.

l Paying much attention to environment protection work provided a solid basis for sustainable
    development in the resettlement areas.

l Emphasizing the social adjustment of the re-settlers ensured the protection of re-settlers' interests and
    materialization of the concept of "putting people first:".

l More emphasis on the training for re-settlers helped with the faster adaptation to the local productive
    and living environment and shortened the transitional period.

In general, the World Bank's participation in the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project sped up the
materialization of the project objective, trained a large group of resettlement officers and promoted the
integration of Chinese resettlement work with international practice. The World Bank participation is an
important factor in the success of the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project.


(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no co-financier involved in the project.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

There were no other partners involved in the project.


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                  Outcome/Impact Indicators


         Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR 1          Actual/Latest Estimate
 Planning and design
     completion:

 (1) Below 180 m by July 1,      1. Below 180 m were completed      1. All designs have been

     1996;                       by July 1, 1996.                   completed for all phases of the
                                                                    project.
 (2) 180-265 m by December 1,    2. Designs were to be completed

     1997; and                   by December 1998.

 (3) Above 265 m by December     3. Designs were to be completed

     1, 1998.                    by December 2000.

 Resettlement housing            Resettlement housing               A total of 36609 units of
 completion for:                 completion:                        housing were completed by Dec

 (1) First 6,600 people by June  Phase I completion of 11,695       2000. All houses were completed

     1, 1994;                    units by June 1997 ; total         in advance of the required dates.
                                                                    A total of 46,310 resettlers
 (2) 21,000 people by December   resettlers moved 46,310
                                                                    moved in 1996 and 1997. In
     1, 1996;                    Phase II completion of 25914       phase II a total of 126,897

 (3) 31,600 people by December   units of housing by Dec 2000;      resettlers were moved by the end

     1, 1997;                    total resettlers moved in phase II of Dec 2000. Most people were
                                 is 126,897                         moved in advance of dates
 (4) 32,100 people by September                                     required and a total all housing
     1, 1998;                                                       was completed.

 (5) 33,600 people by September
     1, 1999;

 (6) 34,200 people by September
     1, 2000.

 Land Allocation for Farming
 for:

 1. Phase I be completed by      Phase I farm land transferred to   Phase I farmland was all
     June 1997;                  farmers by June 1997 should be     transferred in Dec 1997
                                 37,000 mu

 2. Phase II land allocation be  Phase II farmland transferred to   Phase II farmland was all
     fully completed by Dec      farmers should be 143,000 mu.      transferred to farmers by Dec
     2000.                       By Dec 2002                        2002

 (1) Completion of Wenmengtan    River Training be completed by     River Training work was
     should have the following   June 1999                          completed in June 2000
     completion schedule: River
     training by December 1997;




                                               - 25 -

(2) Warping by December          All warping be completed by       All warping work was completed
   1998; soil improvement and    December 1999                     in December 2000
   agricultural development by   Soil improvement work by          All soil improvement work was
   December 1999.                December 2000.                    completed in early 2001. There
                                                                   is no more outstanding work for
                                                                   to be done and all construction
                                                                   activities have been completed.

(3) Houhe Dam Construction       Houhe dam be completed in Dec     Houhe Dam and Reservoir was
   start by March 1996 and       2002.                             completed in August 2003. No
   completion by end 1997.       Irrigation Construction should    outstanding work needs to be
   Irrigation construction start be completed by June 2003 for     done.
   by March 1996 and             15,000 mu for resettlers          Irrigation works were completed
   completion by January                                           by May 2003 for some 15,000
   2001.                                                           mu for resettlers. All works have
                                                                   been completed.

(4) Land development and         For Henan and Shanxi land         Henan completed by June 2003 a
   industrial development in     development was to be             total of 113,300 mu of
   each resettlement schedule    completed for Phase I and II by   upgraded irrigation systems,
   will follow the same as the   June 2002. A total of 113,000     land leveling for 45,000 mu and
   housing schedules.            mu in Henan and 11,000 mu in      15,000 mu of soil improvements
                                 Shanxi needs to be improved by    which essentially upgraded 71%
                                 land leveling, irrigation canal   of the land to first class
                                 construction, soil improvement    irrigation for the resettlers.
                                 etc.                              Shanxi completed land leveling
                                                                   and irrigation improvement for
                                                                   some 11,000 mu and another
                                                                   4,500 mu of existing irrigation
                                                                   area. Overall the land
                                                                   development program has been
                                                                   completed

(5) Real income increases.       No Specific Changes were made     Real incomes increases for
   Resettlers should be          to these requirements in the      resettlers will be 2.5-9.9%p.a.
   2.8-6.0% p.a. after           mid-term reviews                  averaging 5.2% p.a. for the
   resettlement. Host                                              period of growth. Host
   communities should have a                                       communities will have income
   real income increase of                                         increases of 7.3-15.9% p.a.
   0.7-2.4% p.a                                                    averaging about 13.4% for the
                                                                   period of growth. After period of
                                                                   growth they will have income
                                                                   growth similar to the local
                                                                   communities.




                                              - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

The total project cost was estimated at US$571 million at appraisal. The YRCC Resettlement Office
during the appraisal presented costs and compensation figures based on a 1986 survey with some up-dating
in 1992 for Phase I of the project. However, the project area saw fast economic development since the
survey, especially during 1990-1994. These economic developments necessitated a re-survey in the entire
project area during 1995-1996 which saw a significant increase in the quantities of inundation impacts.
The RPDI conducted this re-survey, re-estimated the project cost and proposed the revised project budget.
The State Planning Commission reviewed and approved the revised budget and financing plan. During the
MTR, the total project cost was reviewed and revised to be US$840 million on the basis of the re-survey.
This represents an increase of US$269 million, about 47 percent. The main contributing factors included:
(a) the increase in the number of resettlers in the project; (b) the increase of physical impacts (houses,
structures and village enterprises); (c) market price increases; and (d) the increase of compensation rates
for all compensatory items. All cost increases were financed by the government. The details of cost
changes and expenditure are as follows:

                                        Project Costs by Components
                                          (in US$ million equivalent)

                     Component                             Appraisal         Actual Cost            Percentage
                                                            Estimate                               of Appraisal
Resettlement
   Planning and Design                                         11.7                44.1                376.0
   Residential and Infrastructure Construction                292.9               483.2                165.0
   Transfer of Relocatees                                        7.3                 9.5               130.1
   Livelihood Development                                     257.1               295.7                115.0
    (a) Wenmengtan                                             47.1                67.7                143.7
    (b) Houhe Dam and Irrigation                               15.4                24.7                160.4
    (c) Agricultural & Production development                    9.2              198.2                108.1
    (d) Industrial Development *                              174.2                 0              included above

    (e) Monitoring and social development                     10.4                  5.1                 49.0
Environmental Management                                        3.5                 8.4                240.0
            Total Baseline & Contingency Costs               571.2               840.9                147.2

                              Total Project Costs             571.2               840.9                147.2


                        Total Financing Required              571.2              840.9                  147.2


* The industrial component was cancelled. The development cost coming mainly from land compensation
   went into the land-and-agriculture-based resettlement programs. As a result, the cost in (d) was included in (c).




                                                      - 27 -

            Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
                                (in US$ million equivalent)

                                       Procurement Method   1


 Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB          Other  2   N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                  13.8         152.6           80.6     65.6       312.6
                          (13.1)       (48.8)         (38.7)    (0.0)      (87.5)
2. Goods                   3.00         0.0            1.2      179.2      183.4
                          (3.0)         (0.0)          (1.2)    (0.0)      (4.2)
3. Services                0.0          0.0            3.2       0.0        3.2
                          (0.0)         (0.0)          (1.2)    (0.0)      (1.2)
4. Training                0.0          0.0            1.5       0.0        1.5
                          (0.0)         (0.0)          (1.0)    (0.0)      (1.0)
5. Environmental           0.0          0.00           5.8       0.0        5.8
Management/Cultural
relics
                          (0.0)         (0.0)          (1.2)    (0.0)      (1.2)
6. Monitoring              0.0          0.0            1.6       0.0        1.6
                          (0.0)         (0.0)          (1.1)    (0.0)      (1.1)
7. Administration          0.00         0.00           1.3      61.9        63.2
                          (0.00)       (0.00)          (1.0)    (0.0)      (1.0)
   Total                   16.8        156.6           95.2     306.7      575.30
                          (16.1)       (48.8)         (45.1)    (0.00)    (110.00)




                                         - 28 -

                        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual)
                                           (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                     Procurement Method        1


   Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                Other 2         N.B.F.          Total Cost
  1. Works                           0.00             0.00               178.5           595.8           774.30
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)             (107.1)          (0.00)          (107.1)
  2. Goods                           0.31             0.00               0.43             0.00            0.74
                                    (0.31)           (0.00)             (0.32)           (0.00)          (0.63)
  3. Services                        0.00             0.00               2.89              0.0            3.89
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)             (2.89)            (0.0)          (3.89)
  4. Training                        0.00             0.00               1.03             0.00            1.03
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)             (1.03)           (0.00)          (1.03)
  5. Environmental                                                       2.82             2.98            5.8
  management
                                                                        (0.56)           (0.00)          (0.56)
  6. Monitoring                      0.00             0.00               1.00             4.10            5.10
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)             (1.00)           (0.00)          (1.00)
  7. Administration                  0.00             0.00               0.00            50.04           50.04
  /Engineering                      (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
     Total                           0.31             0.00              186.67           653.9            840.9
                                    (0.31)          (0.00)              (112.9)          (0.00)         (113.21)
1/
  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies. The
  dollar amounts also reflect the appreciation of SDR.
2/
  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
  contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
  operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
  units.




                                                        - 29 -

               Project Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

    Component       Appraisal Estimate         Actual Cost                Percentage
                                                                          of Appraisal
                   Bank     Govt    CoF Bank       Govt      CoF    Bank      Govt    CoF
                                                                      %        %
1. Planning and      7.7      4.0    -    2.89      41.23      -       38     1031     -
design
2. Resettlement     75.9   214.3     -  94.42      388.78      -      124      181     -
Construction
3. Transfer            -      7.3    -       0        9.5      -        0        0     -
4. Livelihood
development
  - Wenmengtan      14.0    33.1     -    13.3       54.4      -       95      164     -
   - Houhe           5.9      9.2    -       0       24.7      -        0      268     -
Agric/Production     4.1   182.7     -       0      198.2      -        0      108     -
 & Industries
Monitoring &         0.8      7.8    -    2.03       3.07      -      254       39     -
Social adjustment
5. Environmental     1.7      2.7    -    0.56       7.84      -       33      290     -
Management

Total              110.0   361.1     -  113.2      727.72      -      103      202     -




                                        - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Costs and Benefits and Resettler Income assessment

Economic Costs and Benefits

A major portion of the project investments, US$295.7 million, were for livelihood development activities, about 35
percent of the total investments. Of this, US$140.9 million was for infrastructure and US$146.4 million was for
land acquisition and for special side-line activities. Infrastructure investments helped boost crop incomes and
enhanced side-line activities, such as animal husbandry and aquaculture development.

                                      Table 1: Livelihood Reestablishment

                                                                    Million $       %
 Wenmengtan Land Development                                           67.7         23%
 Houhe dam + Irrigation                                                24.7          8%
 Other irrigation (in county)                                          48.5         16%
  Land acquisition/ special commercialization projects                146.4         50%
 Environment Management                                                 8.4          3%
 Total                                                                295.7        100%


This economic analysis focuses on evaluating the infrastructure component. The land and special
side-line/commercialization village projects were analyzed by county and townships before investments were
provided.

Economic Evaluation of the Infrastructure Component. Economic evaluation of the infrastructure component
essentially consisted of irrigation projects with side-line associated with irrigation. Evaluation of the economic
benefits consisted of the following:

(a)    economic benefits were determined by using border prices of key outputs and inputs after netting out
       production costs and taxes and other transfer payments;

(b)    benefits from side-lines were from animal husbandry which increased as a result of crop production. The
       use of crop residues for feed generated additional benefits and these were quite significant. There were
       generally about 3-4 animal models for the side-line activity;

Economic costs were determined after removing all transfer payments such as taxes and duties from the
financial costs for the construction of productive facilities. All prices used for construction are market
prices and there were no subsidies or distortions in the prices. The costs of resettlement construction were
excluded since the benefits of housing and social infrastructure (such as schools, clinics, etc.) have social
benefits and these benefits generally balance the costs. Table 2 shows the total investments, net present
value and the EIRR for all the infrastructure investments.




                                                          - 31 -

                                     Table 2: EIRR, Investment Costs and NPV

                                             SAR                              ICR
                  Item              EIRR           EIRR           Investment           NPV
                                                                  Y(000,000)        Y(000,000)
         Houhe Irrigation Area       19.9%         17.1%             204.5              51.5
         Wenmengtan                 16.1%          14.7%             542.8              163.2
         Downstream Counties
            Kaifeng                   NA           18.5%              52.3              16.4
            Zhongmou                  NA           17.0%              32.4               6.7
            Yuanyang                  NA           14.9%              60.5              14.6
         Other Counties
           Jiyuan                     NA           18.8%             113.2              327.9
           Mengjin                  10.8%          16.2%              79.1              33.3
           Mianchi                    NA           15.4%             109.1              53.1
           Xin'an                     NA           13.9%              28.6              36.0
           Yuanqu                     NA           12.7%              16.3               2.7


Comparison of ICR and SAR Evaluation. Table 2 shows a comparison of the SAR EIRR and the ICR
evaluation values. Only three schemes were evaluated in the SAR: Wenmengtan, Houhe dam and
irrigation, and Mengjin move back case. During the appraisal the detailed schemes for the counties were
not fully designed and, therefore, it was not possible to evaluate them. The comments are given below for
the differences in the values of EIRR evaluated at appraisal and ICR.

Part A: Houhe Irrigation Component. The Houhe irrigation component has an EIRR of 17.1 percent
compared to the 20 percent estimated at appraisal. The following reasons contribute to this drop:

l The moving of resettlers took place in 1999, and the reservoir was completed in 2001, a delay of four
    years. Therefore, the benefits occurred in a delayed manner.
l    Land leveling was not completed and the irrigation ditches were not built on time.
l In recent years, the reservoir storage could not reach its desired level because of the drought.
    Consequently, the service area could not be fully irrigated as designed.

Part B: Wenmengtan Irrigation Component. The Wenmengtan irrigation component has an EIRR of 14.7
percent compared to the 16.01 percent estimated at appraisal. This was caused by:

l Investment for this component increased considerably because of land leveling and soil improvement.
l In the Wenmengtan area, farm production accounts for 61 percent of the total income, and in recent
    years the prices of farm products have decreased. The impact on this area was quite significant.

Part C: Down-stream Counties. The down-stream counties include Kaifeng, Yuanyang and Zhongmu.
Their EIRRs are 18.5, 14.9 and 17 percent, respectively. The situation looks quite good because the soil is
of good quality with perfect irrigation system and convenient transportation.

Part D: Other Counties. Other counties are Yuanqu, Xinan, Mianchi, Mengjin and Jiyuan. Their EIRRs
range from 12.7 to 18.8 percent: The reasons are: the irrigated land makes up a relatively large proportion
of the total; the side-line income has increased quite rapidly in recent years; and transportation is
convenient for the sale of products.




                                                     - 32 -

Resettler Income Impact of Sampled Data Based on Consumption Type Analysis

A considerable amount of monitoring and surveys were done during the 10 years of this project. Much of
this monitoring data points to about 70% of the incomes have been restored of the pre-resettlement incomes.
However much of this data although valid needs to be checked with a consumption type analysis to verify
the income data and to compare with the SAR 1994 estimates of income analysis which were essentially a
consumption type analysis.

Baseline Income estimates and Changes since SAR

The SAR uses a baseline estimate of income based on the 1993 State Statistical Bureau surveys for the
various project areas (essentially for the counties). These were verified with the counties in 1994 and
supported by county chiefs. The ICR sample typifies about 41,000 people out of the 204,000 that were
resettled. When baselines are compared figure I shows that some of the baseline incomes have increased in
some of the villages because most people were resettled almost 5 -6 years later and the incomes have risen
in real terms. The incomes of the remote areas have not changed substantially (villages 1-4). The places
where the baseline have not changed substantially are in the Yuanqu County area. Most of the substantial
jump in income has come from off-farm income and sideline/commercial farming activities despite the
decline in crop incomes (grains especially).

                                                                       Figure 1

                                                      SAR Baseline 1998 Compared with Actual in 1998


                                                   12000

                                                   10000
                               Y/HH
                                   in               8000

                                                    6000

                                     Incomes        4000

                                                    2000
                                            Family     0
                                                         1   3    5   7   9    11   13  15  17   19   21 23

                                                                         Number of Villages


                                                                 SAR Baseline updated  Actual Baseline



Figure 2 shows that off-farm and commercial agriculture has increased enormously from 10% in the 1993
income surveys to 22-65% and a substantial portion of this income is also coming from off farm. Hence
rural incomes of so call farmers is heavily biased to non farm and commercial agriculture. That is why
despite declining agriculture prices which today is almost 50% of international prices farmers incomes have
not declined but have actually increased. The rate of real increase of the baseline incomes varies from
5-10% per year because of the off farm and commercial agriculture in incomes. It must however be stated
that the resettlers are now settled in places where access to markets to cities are further enhanced and
therefore the impact of off farm income is much more significant.




                                                                         - 33 -

                                                               Figure 2

                                     Off-farm Income in 1998 Baseline


                          100.0%

                           80.0%                                                             Farm Income
                           60.0%

                           40.0%                                                             Off Farm including

                           20.0%                                                             sidelines

                             0.0%


                                      Xin'an  Xin'an                                 Kaifen
                                                                            Mianchi
                                                      zhongmou  Yuanyang



Income Restoration for resettlers

The income changes with resettlement were computed based on sampled data taken from many villages by
the monitoring consultants. Essentially the income was computed from farm and sideline activities and off
farm sources input and output data. The farmgate prices for inputs and outputs were derived from the
independent monitor and from local statistical bureaus. The detailed income analysis results are indicated
in table in table 4. To make a comparison of baseline it was necessary to update the SAR data by using the
CPI index to the times when resettlers were moved and the results of this analysis is shown in Table 3. In
Table 3 the actual preresttlement income is also recorded. The baseline as estimated using the SAR data
updated using the CPI indices in almost all cases are lower than the actual presettlement incomes. This
indicates the rural sector incomes had real growth because of farmers switching to off-farm and
commercial farming which increased incomes faster than the inflation rates. It must however be indicated
this effect is very much more pronounced in the new resettlement villages where off-farm and
commercial farming activities because the new villages are much closer to urban areas where
resettlers are closer to the large markets and to sources of employment (see Annex 10).

The post resettlement actual incomes in 2001, 2003, 2004 as computed from consumption surveys indicate
that incomes in 2001 show about 50% of the farmers have recovered or exceeded their incomes and very
quickly this rises to 66-70% in 2003 and 80% in 2004. By 2008 it is expected all farmers would have fully
recovered or exceeded their incomes. This data compares very closely to the monitoring data from the
independent monitor who has indicated that 70% of the resettlers have recovered their incomes in 2003 .

Host Income Impact

Host impact is clearly very positive. In most of the cases the host impact varies from 10% to over 100%
(see table 4 ). The host benefits significantly because the funds derived from the sale of land provided the
host villages to initiate village enterprises and land quality improvements through irrigation. The income
that host farmers derived from the enterprises and irrigation enhancements provided significant
improvement in incomes. Table 4 also shows the host impact which in all cases shows significant
improvements to host villages.




                                                                        - 34 -

            Table 3: Comparison of Family Income SAR and ICR Evaluation for Baseline


                                                           SAR                   ICR (Actual)        SAR


                                              Pre-reselltement family income    Pre-reselltement     Post-
                                                                                                  reselltement

                                        Year  Income       Year       Income   Year       Income    Income

Resellters                                                             Yuan\a              Yuan     Yuan\a
Houhe (average
income)        average                  1993     2555       1998          4106 1998        4979      6490

Houhe-         Houhe Low income         1993     2562       1998          4117 1998        4125      5491

               Houhe Medium income      1993     2668       1998          4287 1998        5223      5366

               Houhe High income        1993     3950       1998          6348 1998        5687      10421

Jiyuan         Within Jiyuan            1993     2974       1998          4779 1998        7171      5869

               180-215                  1993     2974       1998          4779 1998        7171        n/a

               215-235                  1993     2974       1999          5018 1999        6041        n/a

               235-265                  1993     2974       2000          5269 2000        6664        n/a

               Within Township          1993     3110       1995          4466 1995        8014      7932

               To Wenmentan             1993     3420                                                  n/a

Mengjin        Within Country1          1993     2591       1998          4164                       5904

Mengjin                       180-215m  1993                1998          4164 1998        5639        n/a

Mengjin                       235-265m  1993                2000          4289 2000        4026        n/a

               Within Township          1993     2538                     4079                       5641

Xinan          Within Country           1993     2590       1998          4162 1998        6805      7023

Xinan                         180-215   1993                1998          4162 1998        6805        n/a

Xinan                         235-265   1993                2000          4287 2000        8752        n/a

To Wenmentan   To Wenmentan             1993     2200       1998          3535 1998        9902      7055

To Wenmengtan                 180-215   1993                1998                                       n/a

To Wenmengtan                 215-235   1993                1999          3641 1999        7431        n/a

To Wenmentan                  235-265   1993                2000          3751 2000        5627        n/a

               To Kaifei etc.           1993     1973                     3171                       5584

               To Zhongmu               1993     2310       1998          3712 1998        5909      6221

               To Yuanyang              1993     2142       1998          3442 1998        6142      5016

Mianchi        Within Country           1993     1819       1998          2923 1998        5215      4901

                              180-215   1993                1998               1998        7745        n/a

                              235-265   1993                2000               2000        5936        n/a

               To Kaifen                1993     1973       1998          3171 1998        7121      5584

Shanxian       Within Coutry            1993     1559       1998          2505 1998        5627      3751

Yuanqu         Within Coutry            1993     2952       1998          4744 1998        5431      6659

Xiaxian/pinglu Within Country           1993     2376       1998          3818 1998        4371      6659




                                                - 35 -

Host Impact

Houhe(average income)                         1993   2534   1998   4072 1998   1980    7233

Jiyuan             Within Country             1993   3361   1998   5401 1998   2233    6616

                   Within Township            1993   4527   1998   7275 1998   NA      7932

                   In Wenmentan               1993   3550   1998   5705 1998   7132    6171

Menjin             Within Country1            1993   2534   1998   4072 1998   3069    4856

                   Within Country2            1993   2978   1998   4786 1998   NA      5118

                   Within Township            1993   2591   1998   4164 1998   NA      5634

Xinan              Within Country             1993   2660   1998   4275 1998   2501    4644

                   In Wenmentan               1993   3550   1998   5705 1998   5781    6171

                   To Kaifei etc.             1993   4497   1998   7227 1998   NA      8853

                   In Zhongmu                 1993   3665   1998   5890 1998   4500    7805

                   To Yuanyang                1993   5280   1998   8485 1998   4855    8583

Mianchi            Within Country             1993   2433   1998   3910 1998   1984    4255

                   To Kaifei                  1993   4497   1998   7227 1998   963     8853

Shanxian           Within Coutry              1993   2518   1998   4046 1998   NA      4114

Yuanqu             Within Coutry              1993   3071   1998   4935 1998   NA      5634

Xiaxian/pinglu     Within Country             1993   3265   1998   5247 1998   NA      6221

\a Inflated Using the Provincial CPI Indices




                                                    - 36 -

                         Table 4: Comparison of SAR and ICR Post Resettlement Income

                                       ICR (Actual)     SAR                                     ICR
                                                        Post-
                                      Pre-reselltement resellte               Post-reselltement Family income in Yuan
                                                        ment
                                      Year     Income  Income   Year  Income Year        Income       Year   Income   Year  Income
Resellters                                       Yuan  Yuan\a         Actual              Actual               Actual      Forecast
Houhe(average income)
            average                   1998       4979   6490    2001   4789   2003           5,394      2004 5793      2008     7256
Houhe-      Houhe Low income          1998       4125   5491    2001   3228   2003           3,860      2004 4190      2008     5049
            Houhe Medium income       1998       5223   5366    2001   5332   2003           5,753      2004 6119      2008     7274
            Houhe High income         1998       5687  10421    2001   6421   2003           7,044      2004 7576      2008     9618
Jiyuan      Within Jiyuan             1998       7171   5869
            180-215                   1998       7171           2001   6846   2003           7,667      2004 8192      2008    10359
            215-235                   1999       6041           2002   6209   2003           5,957      2004 6358      2009     8717
            235-265                   2000       6664           2003   6511   2003           6,511      2004 6687      2010     9677
            Within Township           1995       8014   7932    1998  12689   2003          14,846      2004 15681     2005    16551
            To Wenmentan
Mengjin     Within Country1                             5904
Mengjin                 180-215m      1998       5639           2001   5819   2003           6,630      2004 7023      2008     8371
Mengjin                 235-265m      2000       4026           2003   4015   2003           4,015      2004 4234      2010     6012
            Within Township                             5641
Xinan       Within Country            1998       6805   7023
Xinan                   180-215       1998       6805           2001   7132   2003           8,085      2004 8120      2008    10252
Xinan                   235-265       2000       8752           2003   9234   2003           9,234      2004 9432      2010    10437
To WenmentanTo Wenmentan              1998       9902   7055
To Wenmengtan           180-215       1998       9902           2001   9198   2003           9,557      2004 10122     2008    12151
To Wenmengtan           215-235       1999       7431           2002   7503   2003           7,717      2004 8022      2009    10369
To Wenmentan            235-265       2000       5627           2003   5557   2003           5,557      2004 5954      2010     8322
            To Kaifei etc.                              5584
            To Zhongmu                1998       5909   6221    2001   5046   2003           6,801      2004 6878      2008     8446
            To Yuanyang               1998       6142   5016    2001   7757   2003           9,174      2004 9229      2008    11540
Mianchi     Within Country            1998       5215   4901    2001  11375   2003           8,369      2004 8362
                        180-215       1998       7745           2001   6582   2003           8,877      2004 9365      2008    10987
                        235-265       2000       5936           2003   9024   2003           9,560      2004 9804      2010    11088
            To Kaifen                 1998       7121   5584    2001   7088   2003          11,214      2004 11798     2008    13767
Shanxian    Within Coutry             1998       5627   3751
Yuanqu      Within Coutry             1998       5431   6659    2001   5069   2003           5,811      2004 6128      2008     7758
Xiaxian/pingluWithin Country          1998       4371   6659    2001          2003                      2004           2008
                                                                                                                           Total
Host Impact
Houhe(average income)                 1998       1980   7233    2001   2839   2003           2,598      2004 2604      2008     3283
Jiyuan      Within Country            1998       2233   6616    2001   5859   2003           7,282      2004 7849      2008     9927
            Within Township           1998       NA     7932    2001    NA                                             2008      NA
            In Wenmentan              1998       7132   6171    2001  10176   2003          11,930      2004 12125     2008    14881
Menjin      Within Country1           1998       3069   4856    2001   3596   2003           4,064      2004 4279      2008     5131
            Within Country2           1998       NA     5118    2001    NA                                             2008      NA
            Within Township           1998       NA     5634    2001    NA                                             2008      NA
Xinan       Within Country            1998       2501   4644    2001   2810   2003           3,978      2004 4250      2008     4202
            In Wenmentan              1998       5781   6171    2001   9482   2003          11,366      2004 11561     2008    14317
            To Kaifei etc.            1998       NA     8853    2001    NA                                             2008      NA
            In Zhongmu                1998       4500   7805    2001   5657   2003           6,445      2004 6609      2008     7362
            To Yuanyang               1998       4855   8583    2001   9220   2003          18,183      2004 18965     2008    22589
Mianchi     Within Country            1998       1984   4255    2001   3526   2003           4,794      2004 5433      2008     5557
            To Kaifei                 1998       963    8853    2001   1479   2003           3,075      2004 3075      2008     2575
Shanxian    Within Coutry             1998       NA     4114    2001    NA                                             2008      NA
Yuanqu      Within Coutry             1998       NA     5634    2001    NA                                             2008      NA
Xiaxian/pingluWithin Country          1998       NA     6221    2001    NA                                             2008      NA
\a Inflated Using the Provincial CPI Indices                                                                               Total




                                                                - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/24/1993                     Task Manager, Anthropologist;
                                             Assistant Anthropologist;
                                             Institutional Specialist;
                                             Resettlement Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/1993                   8    Task Manager; Engineers
                                             (2); Resettlement Specialists
                                             (2); Anthropologist
              04/1994                   6    Task Manager; Lawyer;
                                             Resettlement Specialist;
                                             Anthropologist; Irrigation
                                             Engineer; Economist

 Supervision

              10/25/1994                3    Task Team Leader;                      S              HS
                                             Financial/Training Specialist;
                                             Irrigation Engineer
              05/30/1995                3    Task Team Leader;                      HS             HS
                                             Irrigation Engineer ;
                                             Anthropologist
              11/15/1995                3    Task Team Leader; Irrigation           HS             HS
                                             Engineer; Economist
              05/1996                   2    Task Team Leader; Irrigation           HS             HS
                                             Engineer
              11/1996                   3    Task Team Leader; Resettlement         HS             HS
                                             Specialist; Irrigation Engineer
              12/1997                   3    Task Team Leader; Resettlement         S               S
                                             Specialist; Financial Specialist
              06/1998                   4    Task Team Leader; Resettlement         S               S
                                             Specialist; Irrigation Engineer;
                                             Anthropologist
              11/1998                   4    Task Team Leader; Resettlement         S               S
                                             Specialist; Social Development
                                             Specialist; Environment
                                             Specialist; Irrigation Engineer
              01/1999                   9    Task Team Leader; Resettlement         S               S
                                             Specialists (2); Procurement
                                             Specialist; Financial Specialist;
                                             Auditor; Irrigation Engineer;
                                             Social Development Specialist;
                                             Economist
              09/1999                   8    Task Team Leader; Resettlement         S               S
                                             Specialists (3); Compensation
                                             Specialist; Financial Specialist;



                                              - 38 -

                                           Irrigation Engineer; Auditor
               05/2000                 5   Mission Leader; Resettlement         S    S
                                           Specialist; Engineer/Cost;
                                           Financial Specialist; Social
                                           Development Specialist
               12/2000                 8   Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S    S
                                           Specialists (3; Social
                                           Development Specialist;
                                           Environment Specialist;
                                           Irrigation Specialist; Financial
                                           Management Specialist
               10/2001                 9   Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S    S
                                           Specialist; Engineer; Social
                                           Development Specialist (2);
                                           Financial Management
                                           Specialist;
                                           Environment Specialist;
                                           Agronomist; Cultural Property
                                           Specialist
               05/2002                 9   Task Team Leader; Engineer;          S    S
                                           Resettlement Specialist;
                                           Environment Specialist; Social
                                           Development Specialists (2);
                                           Cultural Property Specialist;
                                           Economist; Rural Development
                                           Specialist
               11/2002                 6   Task Team Leader; Engineer;          S    S
                                           Environment Specialist; Social
                                           Development Specialist;
                                           Economists (2)
               10/2003                 5   Task Team Leader; Social             S    S
                                           Development Specialists (2);
                                           Resettlement Specialist;
                                           Economist

 ICR
                                      9     Task Team Leader; Social
                                            Development Specialists (2);
                                            Resettlement Specialists (2);
                                            Economists (2);
                                            Environment Specialist;
                                            Irrigation Engineer


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                            146.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     -
  Supervision                                                           669.0
  ICR                                                                       -
  Total                                                                 845.0




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Staff Appraisal Report: Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project

Independent Monitoring Reports

Project Environment Review

Living Standard Assessment




                                                - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Scope and Progress

The entire Xiaolangdi Resettlement Program consists of four phases, i.e. damsite, Reservoir Phase I, II and
III. The damsite resettlement was completed before the project appraisal. Reservoir Phase III was planned
for implementation during 2010-11 while Reservoir Phase I and II were financed under the project.

Project scope. The project financed Reservoir Phase I and II. According to the updated inventory in
1994, the project would affect 29 townships in 8 counties of Henan and Shanxi Provinces. The project
would require the relocation of 12 towns, 182 villages, 789 mines and factories, 12 mini hydro stations,
658 km of canals, 688 km of roads and 548 kms of communication lines. The total affected housing area is
7.25 million m2 and 381,870 mu of land including 181,790 mu of cultivated land. There would be 109
sites of historical relics to be affected. The total affected population was 172,487 people compared with
153,182 as appraised.

Resettlement site and infrastructure development The project helped build 227 resettlement villages and
155,139 people in 47,012 rural households have moved into new houses, with a total housing area of
7,248,100 m2. The project has relocated 12 towns, with a total urban population of 9,519. The new
villages and towns are complete with water supply, drainage, power systems, schools, hospitals and roads.
The project also compensated and relocated 789 factories and mines, with a total 3846/5683 workers
reemployed. The project has also completed reconstruction and rehabilitation of affected infrastructure,
including reconstruction of 1,997 kms of roads, 2,154 kms of power lines, 1,886 kms of communication
lines, 1,073 km village drains, 58 mini-hydro stations and 80 bridges with 2424 meters in length.

                                        Key Project Impacts & Progress

                   Item             Unit                 SAR                              Actual

                                           Henan       Shanxi       Total      Henan       Shanxi    Total

 1      Affected Towns              No.           8            4          12           8          4       12

 2      Affected Villages           No.         173           53         229        217          66      283

 3      Affected Population         No.     133616         39255      172871      130440      42047   172487

 4      Village housing area        M     4818800       1873000     6691800     5657900    1590200  7248100

 5      Cultivated land             Mu      157600         47890      205490      146187      39993   186180

 6      Enterprises                 No.         665          159         824        591         198      789

 7      Infrastructure

          Roads                     Km                                  1022       2411         254     2665

          Power lines               Km                                  2419       1862         292     2154

          Communication lines       Km                                   777       1624         262     1886

          Schools                   No          176           53         229        243          74      317

          Clinics                   No          194           58         252        511         156      667

          Bridges                   No                                               80                   80

          Drainage ditches          Km                                              856         181     1037




                                                       - 43 -

Movement of people The project has completed its resettlement program as planned. In total, the project
has moved 172,487 people in 52,269 households. Damsite resettlement involved 11,728 resettlers and was
completed before the project appraisal in 1993. Reservoir Phase III resettlement would involve 17,200
people to be moved. They were planned to be moved during 2010 and 2011. This part of the resettlement
was advanced to start in 2002 and is expected to be completed by June 2004, following the same standard.

Livelihood development While enterprise workers and government employees are re-employed in the
relocated or restructured enterprises and government agencies, the rural farming population were
reemployed in job opportunities created under the project livelihood development programs in agriculture
and new industries. The rural livelihood development program is largely land and agriculture based,
supplemented by non-farm and industrial schemes. Land provision is the fundamental measure of the
resettlement program. The project has allocated 11,000 ha of farmland for the resettlers, including 7,000
ha of irrigated land. This is achieved through expansion of the irrigation areas in Houhe Irrigation Area
(5,000 ha), river training, warping and land improvement program in Wenmengtan (13,300 ha protected
and 4,100 ha created) and purchase of land from host population. All of the rural resettler villages have
been provided with replacement land. Sideline industries have turned out to be an important aspect in the
livelihood development programs. These schemes were developed at township, village and household level.
They have become an important factor in promoting livelihood development.




                                                   - 44 -

Additional Annex 9. Loan Covenant Compliance


Section                    Class   Current Status   Description of Covenant
Sect 4.01(a)(b)(c)          01     Complied with    Records and accounts to be
                                                    maintained for the Project.
Sec 4.02(a)                 07     Complied with    Implement RS plan acceptable to
                                                    IDA.
Sec 4.02(b)                 07     Complied with    RS implementation remains
                                                    synchronized with dam construction
                                                    and if there is a lag in the RS
                                                    implementation by 4 months the
                                                    coffer dam will not be closed.
Sec 4.02(c)                 07     Complied with    Ensure water level of reservoir is not
                                                    permitted to rise above 265m until
                                                    resettlement plans are provided to and
                                                    approved by IDA.
Sec. 4.03(a)                07     Complied With    Operate such a fund with procedures
                                                    acceptable to IDA.
Sch. 4 Part A 1             05     Complied with    Use YRCC-RPDI to approve final
                                                    designs.
Sch.4 Part A2.(a)           09     Complied with    Employ an independent monitoring
                                                    institution.
Sch. 4 Part A2.(b)          09     Complied with    Furnish reports promptly.
Sch. 4 Part A.3             07     Complied with    Publicize the grievance system.
Sch. 4 Part B1 (a)          06     Complied with    Comply with Environmental
                                                    Standards and Guidelines acceptable
                                                    to IDA.
Sch. 4 Part B1.(b)          06     Complied with    Implement the Environmental
                                                    Management Plan in a manner
                                                    acceptable to IDA.
Sch. 4 Part B2.(a)          06     Complied with    Furnish to IDA detail plans to be
                                                    implemented in the next year.
Sch. 4 Part B2.(b)          06     Complied with    Establish Environmental Management
                                                    Office with competent staff in
                                                    numbers satisfactory and
                                                    responsibilities and functions
                                                    acceptable to IDA.
Sch. 4 Part B3.(a)(b)(c)    06     Complied with    (a) Employ an international
                                                    environment and resettlement panel;
                                                    (b) furnish reports and (c) implement
                                                    all recommendations.
Sch. 4 Part C1.(a)          10     Complied with    Houhe dam and irrigation will be
                                                    sufficiently completed to permit
                                                    resettlement in 1997.
Sch. Part 4 C2.(a)(b)       10     Complied with    (a) Houhe dam and structures will be
                                                    periodically inspected by an



                                      - 45 -

                                                 independent group of experts and (b)
                                                 plans for proposed inspection will be
                                                 submitted one year before the
                                                 completion of the dam.
Sch. Part C2.(c)           10   Complied with    Employ a panel of dam experts for
                                                 reviewing the designs and grounds for
                                                 changes and the panel findings should
                                                 be promptly reported.
Sch.4 Part C(a) (b)(c)     10   Complied with    (a) Obtain all government approvals
                                                 for industrial projects; (b) employ
                                                 industrial consultants and; (c)
                                                 implement follow-up actions.
Sch.4 Part D1.(a)(b)(c)    05   Complied with    (a) Maintain the resettlement office
                                                 (RO) of MWR; (b) provinces and
                                                 counties to maintain Ros and; (c)
                                                 coordinating groups at all levels be
                                                 maintained.
Sch. 4 Part D2             04   Complied with    Furnish to IDA the proposed
                                                 implementation program and
                                                 financing plan for coming year.
Sch. 4 Part D3             05   Complied with    All TA and training will be carried
                                                 out according to a program
                                                 acceptable to IDA.
Sch. 4 Part D4             05   Complied with    Carry out with IDA a joint mid-term
                                                 review.
Sch. 4 Part 5              11   Complied with    Maintain a revolving fund with a
                                                 balance of three months estimated
                                                 non-credit expenditures for the
                                                 project.
Sch. 5 1 to 17             07   Complied with    Resettlement criteria should be
                                                 followed as agreed with the Bank.




                                   - 46 -

Additional Annex 10. Living Standard Assessment of the Resettlers

The project resettler population consists of four groups, i.e. rural farmers, urban residents, employees of
enterprises and institutions, and the host population. The project objective was to reestablish the
livelihoods of the affected population through designed investment measures so that they will not only
restore their pre-relocation living standard, but also share in the project benefits. This is a summary of
various assessment efforts on the materialization of the project objective through analysis of employment,
income, physical living environment, infrastructure, housing conditions and social environment .

Rural resettlers

General assessment. The majority of the project resettler population are farmers, accounting for 91% of
the total. Monitoring and supervision data indicate that the housing conditions and physical living
environment of the resettlers have substantially improved as a result of the project. All resettlers have
moved into new houses, generally smaller in area, but much better in quality. All new villages are complete
with basic infrastructure and public facilities, with improved access to public services such as health,
education, communications and better access to market, non-farm employment and information.

Monitoring data indicates that about 70% of the resettlers have either reached or surpassed their
pre-resettlement income target and around 20% have reached about 80% of their pre-resettlement income.
The project has completed the payment of land compensation funds and the replacement land reallocation
program. Those villages who have not reached the designed land allocation standard have started
alternative income-generation activities with their land compensation funds. Full income restoration for all
resettlers would take longer than expected. There are many factors leading to the slow recovery of income,
including the changed macro economic environment in farming sector in China, the slow shift from farming
to non-farm employment and the inflated income baseline before relocation.

Payment and use of land compensation funds. Land compensation fund has been paid to all resettler
villages. Normally village councils decided on the use of the land compensation fund. The compensation
funds have been used generally to purchase replacement lands from the host villages and to invest in
alternative productive schemes. There are some villages who spent the money in public welfare and
facilities. Payment of land compensation provided the financial resources for resettler to purchase
replacement land and develop alternative productive activities, such as sideline activities.

Land allocation and farming income. The major impact of the project is farmland loss and the project has
adopted a land and agriculture based strategy to address this impact. Provision of replacement land was
the fundamental measure for livelihood rehabilitation. The project was designed to provide 1.2 mu of land
per capita on average (one mu of irrigated land or 1.75 mu per capita for dry land) taking into
consideration the pre-relocation per capita land holding and the productivity of the lost land.

Of 227 villages, 169 have reached the designed target of per capita farmland holding. This represents 75%
of the total. The Project Supervisor also reports that 58 resettler villages have not reached the designed
standard of land holding, about 25%. This is largely due to i) land resources constraint in the host areas
and ii) their previous small land holding. In these villages, alternative livelihood programs have started
with the land compensation funds, including sideline activities, cash crops, agro processing, small livestock,
non-farm jobs, small business and factories. These activities helped farmers generate more income than
cultivation.




                                                      - 47 -

Changed macro-economic environment and coping strategy. China witnessed stagnation and often
reduction in farming income share in the past decade, particularly during 1996-2002 when farming output
share of total family income was falling and farmers started replying less on farming as the main source of
income. Instead farmers have turned to sidelines and non-farm sectors for employment opportunities.
Natural disasters are another contributing factor to further reduce farm income share in the project areas.
Statistics show that the annually natural disaster affected area in Henan is 34.77 million mu, ranging
between 26%-67% of the total planting area in the province during 1990-2002. The project rural resettlers
were no exception to this macro change and to the effects of natural disasters. In coping with this macro
change, they adjusted their livelihood rehabilitation strategy, which was land and agriculture based, to place
more emphasis and efforts in the sidelines and non-farm activities.

Non-farm employment. While cultivation still provides the most employment opportunities for the
resettlers, Xiaolangdi resettlers started to gear their efforts also into non-farm activities and commercial
agriculture to cash crops, livestocks, aquaculture, and village indurstries. The project resettlement program
also improved the resettlers' prospect for more sidelines and non-farm employment opportunities by
moving the resettler population closer to towns where employment information and opportunities are more
accessible. At the same time, the land compensation funds provided cash for this shift. The host
governments and project offices carried out extensive extension and training programs to help the resettlers
adapt to the new environment. These included skill trainings in sidelines, paddy growing and management,
land terracing, dryland farming, fruit tree plantation and management, herbal medicine growing and
management, animal raising (cattle, pigs, sheep, rabbit etc.), aquaculture, green houses and marketing etc.
Shanxi and Henan Governments reported that they had organized 1,165 training session for 84,550 person
times. Shanxi and Henan also organized labor export to the more developed areas and over 11,000 rural
laborer participated.

These have enabled the resettlers to carry out their livelihood rehabilitation under a changed environment.
According to a village survey by the Resettlement Supervisor in July 2003, the entire project area had
started extensive farm sideline and non-farm activities. They included vegetable growing ( 2,533
greenhouses), forest and fruit trees plantation (19,263 mu), herbs and flower gardens (3,439 mu), livestock
rearing (100,933 pigs, 11,653 cattles, 490,000 chickens, 18,110 rabbits, and 2,101 households engaged in
specialized animal rearing), and 4,002 small business (agro processing, transport, service shops and
manufacturing factories). Supervisor data presented that there are altogether 21,665 number of resettlers,
from the rural population taking up long-term and daily non-farm jobs. These have led to changes in their
employment pattern and income structure. Statistics show that farming income has been consistently falling
since 1997 and its contribution to household income has dropped from 62% in 1995 to 48% in 2001.

Income restoration analysis. Income restoration level varies at each phase of resettlement and for different
modes of resettlement. Monitoring data indicates that resettler income increases each year. By the end of
2003, about 110 of the 150 villages surveyed by the Independent Monitor have restored or surpassed their
pre-relocation income; 29 villages have reached 80% of the pre-relocation income level and the rest less
than 80% income level.

Monitoring data further shows that resettler villages in Reservoir Phase I have an average per capita
income of 1,046-2,464 yuan in 2003, higher than 345-1,567 yuan before relocation. On average, all
resettler villages have restored their income in Reservoir Phase I. Resettlers in Reservoir Phase II have an
average per capita income of 574-3,849 yuan in 2003 as compared to 780-2,507 yuan before relocation.
The average per capita income in most of the 61 villages moved during 1998-2000 have surpassed their
baseline income. However, in the 16 resettler villages moved in 2001-2002, only 50% have surpassed the
baseline income, 35% reached 80% of their pre-relocation income and 15% lower than 80% of the



                                                       - 48 -

pre-relocation income. Many reasons contributed to the slow recovery, including the macro change in the
farming sector, slow startup of non-farm activities, time required for some cash crops and the inflated
baseline.

Monitoring data indicate that the shift of farmer from farm into non-farm sectors actually happened faster
than expected in the SAR and there is a direct and close correlation between income restoration and the
growth of non-farm income. Extensive non-farm activities have been started in the project areas and
non-farm income has increased significantly in the household. There are three reasons. First, farmers
found farm output share of the family income was reduced and the constraint in land resources for farm
expansion was not available. Secondly, convenient village locations, improved communication conditions
and better access to information have improved their prospect for non-farm employment. Thirdly, local
governments have also provided skill training and organized labor export for the resettlers into the
non-farm sector. As a result of these, non-farm income has risen substantially.

The above assessment stays valid if economic growth without the project is taken into consideration. As
analyzed, the past decade saw a consistent falling of farming output share in China and there was an
acceleration of shift from farming to non-farm activities. Consequently, the share of household farming
income has been gradually declining. Most of the resettler villages were located in remote mountainous
areas, away from towns, with limited access to market information and financial resources to start
non-farm activities. In the without-project scenario, their farming patterns and employment structure were
less likely to change or shift to non-farm industries as rapidly as many farmers did to cope with the macro
change. It was expected that their income would still be largely land based and would have gone on a
stagnant if not declining trend under the macro economic situation in rural China. (see annex 3 for Shanxi
villages.) The project has opened up many non-farm opportunities and enabled the resettlers to adopt a
relatively faster shift to a multi-industry economy. This has helped the resettlers better cope with and
overcome the macro economic bottlenecks and averted the expected stagnant or declining income trends.
The project has achieved significantly its objective following this analysis.

A comparative expenditure analysis by the National Research Centre for Resettlement indicates that the
average per capita living expenditure in 2002 is 1073 yuan compared with 626 yuan before relocation. The
analysis also reveals that those with an average annual per capita living expenditure of less than 499 yuan
represents 17% in 2002 while it was 46% before relocation; those with an annual living expenditure of
1000-1999 went up from 15% before relocation to 33% in 2002. This indicates that 80% of those
surveyed spend more than before. Monitoring data on resettler consumption expenditure also indicates that
resettlers' living standard has improved. Their diet has changed from mainly staple food to a combination
of meat, egg and vegetables which accounts for 50-60% of their food expenditure. They spend more on
clothing, water, power, telephone, communications and daily necessities. Their household assets have
increased to include TV, refrigerators and washing machines.

Income restoration could have shown a better result if not for two factors that distorted the baseline income
information. Both are project-induced activities that temporarily pushed up the baseline income data in the
years of the baseline survey. After 1993 when the decision on the project was made, local governments
dropped restrictions on mining activities and encouraged excavation of coal resource in the reservoir area.
This sudden spur produced many temporary non-farm jobs that pushed up their non-farm income. The
second factor is that the dam construction and early phases of resettlement produced a surge of job
opportunities at the damsite and with the infrastructure and house construction in the new villages. Many
resettlers in Phase II participated in these activities and boosted up their baseline income.

Housing Conditions. Housing conditions for all resettlers have seen significant improvement after the


                                                       - 49 -

project. The Supervisor indicated that the resettlers have built houses for 46,940 rural families, with a total
area of 5.993 million m2, averaging 37.84 m2 per capita under the project. The average housing area is
slightly smaller, but housing has improved in terms of all other indicators. Most of the old houses were
earth/timber structured houses or caves, with relatively poor geological and lighting conditions. Their new
houses are mostly brick-timber/concrete houses and some multi-story, with much improved lighting,
ventilation, water supply and sanitary conditions. They have closer access to school, hospital, market and
the township centers. All resettlers feel satisfied with their new houses.

The survey in the 10 typical resettlement villages reveals significant changes in housing structures after
resettlement. Brick-timber structures decreased from 36.2% before relocation to 7.3% after relocation
while earth-timber structures decreased from 15.4% to 0.8%. Caves dropped from 33.3% to 0.2% after
resettlement while simple houses dropped from 0.4% to 0%. Brick and concrete houses increased from
14.4% to 91.7% after resettlement while two story houses also increased from 12.2% to 34.9%.

Infrastructure and public facilities. The project has established 227 villages. All new villages are complete
with the designed infrastructure and public facilities. Monitoring and supervision data indicates that most
of the old village had dirt streets or roads. They relied mainly on wells or rivers for water supply, and
basic infrastructure and public facilities were quite inadequate. After resettlement, these have improved
significantly,

      Water supply. All resettlement villages have operating water supply systems. The project has
       completed 217 deep well, 220 water towers, 139.8 kms of water supply lines to villages.

      Drainage. All resettlement villages are complete with drainage systems, including 871 km of village
       drains and 93.7 km drains outside the villages

      Power supply. The project has completed 180.8 km of 380 v lines, 895.6 km of 220v lines. All
       resettler households are connected with the power system.

      Roads. All resettlement villages are connected to road system. The project completed 191 km
       county-county roads, 113 km county-town roads, 649 km of township-village roads, 722.9 km of
       main and branch village streets.

      Medical service. Medical service coverage has improved to cover all resettlement villages. Each
       resettlement village has now two clinics, averaging one for 48 households. The distance to the
       township hospitals averages 3 km.

      Schools. All schools were completed before relocation to ensure the continuity of education. The
       project has built 158 new primary schools and 9 middle schools. All schools have been assigned
       qualified teachers.

      Communications. The project has set up 1098.56 km of telephone lines and 371.33 km of
       broadcasting lines. All resettlement village are connected to these lines.

      Hygiene. All villages have set up trash cans or pits. 64% of the resettler households have also
       installed two-pit toilets, an environment measure that has proved to be effective.

Social adjustment. One of the principles of the project design was to move the affected villages together as
much as possible so as to maintain the community and kin bondage. Separation of villages are only
considered at the request of the resettlers. The project villages are generally large, averaging close to 800
people per village. This has mostly materialized.




                                                      - 50 -

Tremendous efforts have been devoted to ensuring that the resettled groups and the host population are
smoothly and well integrated socially, economically and culturally. The host governments have played an
active role to assist the resettled population and include them in their coverage of service provision, such as
extension service, market information disclosure, employment guidance etc. All resettler villages have
elected their own village administration to manage village affairs. One indicator of the harmonious
integration into the host areas is the many intermarriages between the host and resettler villages.

Urban population moved

The project affected and relocated 12 towns. This is one more than the appraised figure (Xieyu Town in
Yuanqu County of Shanxi Province). The total urban population is 9,519 people averaging 800 persons
per town.    The SAR states a total of 17,212 people as the affected population. This includes 9,519 urban
residents and 7,693 farmers living in villages around the town, but registered within the same town. The
7,693 rural residents are all farmers and they were resettled to new locations around the new towns as part
of rural resettlement program. The 9,519 urban residents were mostly employees in township government,
institutions and business people. The project impact on these people was limited only to their residences.
All 12 towns were relocated and re-constructed within their own jurisdiction. The entire town population
moved together into the new towns, including government agencies, institutions, enterprises and business.
Therefore the project had no impacts on their employment. The largest relocation town is Gucheng Town
in Yuanqu County of Shanxi Province with a relocating population of 2,788. The smallest relocating town
is Xieyu Town in Yuanqu County with 234 people. With the built-up of new towns, they now enjoy much
improved infrastructure and public facilities (sufficient water and power supply, road and street with
cement pavement, effective drainage systems, better medical services and schools). Their housing
conditions also improved in terms of living space and quality.

Employees in affected enterprises

The number of actually affected enterprises was 789 instead of 252 as stated in the SAR and most of them
are small coal mines. This big increase is due to the fact that local governments encouraged local people
and promoted intensive coal mining in the reservoir area at the start of the project. The 789 enterprises
comprise 13 county enterprises, 105 township enterprises, 446 village and 225 private workshops.
Operation-wise, 547 of the 789 enterprises were coal mines and the rest are mainly engaged in brick
making, coal washing, grain processing and cement production. Those private and village workshops were
small operations who hired on a daily basis. The workers were mainly local farmers who worked there
during their off-farming seasons. As the resettlers moved into the resettlement areas closer to towns, these
lost job opportunities were replaced with more employment opportunities in urban and semi-urban areas,
with new job opportunities generated with the investment of compensation funds.

Only the few medium state enterprises had regular or long-term contract employees. The total number is
3,846, a slight increase compared with 3,083 in the SAR. The project has completed compensation
payment for all enterprises. The manufacturing or relatively larger mining enterprises have either restarted
their operations or switched to new operations at new sites. All 3,846 long-term or regular employees have
been reemployed in the same enterprises. Additionally, there are 2,332 resettler labors employed in the new
enterprises as long-term workers.




                                                      - 51 -

Host population

The host population who provided land for the resettlement program is 545,024 in 397 villages spread out
in 13 counties in Henan and Shanxi Province. These people are indirectly affected by losing part of their
farmland for the project resettlement program. The designed approach for livelihood rehabilitation was to
redistribute the remaining village land among all village households and use the land compensation fund for
village-planned productive schemes.

The host village survey by the independent monitor shows that the average land loss among the host
villages is relatively small at 0.3 mu per capita. Considering the general increase of non-farm income in
rural households, the land loss impact on income is even smaller. The independent monitor and the
Resettlement Supervisor also confirm that i) land redistribution has been completed in all host villages, ii)
the land compensation funds have been invested in on-farm works and village welfare facilities, such as
schools and clinics. The productive use of land compensation funds have enabled the farmers to improve
their land productivity, adjust their cropping patterns and start non-farm ventures. Survey data indicate
that their income has generally increased, largely due to expansion of cash crops, livestock rearing and
aquaculture. At the same time, the host population also benefit from the infrastructure and public facilities
put in place under the project. In general, the living standard of the host population has improved as well.

Damsite resettlers

The damsite resettlement was completed before the project appraisal. However, as part of the overall
resettlement program, the independent monitor also covered it. Damsite resettlers achieved a relatively fast
restoration and increase in income. Monitoring data indicates that their income restoration rate reached
100% in 1999 and many well exceeded their previous income level.

The livelihood restoration program was completed as designed. Land compensation was delivered to the
affected villages and nearly all resettler villages have received their allocated land. The villages have
invested the land compensation into all kinds of productive ventures, including on-farm works and
non-farm ventures. The non-farm resettlement program was also completed. At the same time, the dam
construction created many job opportunities. The resettler households have started all kinds of service
ventures, such as restaurants, shops, taxi, house renting etc. Many resettler have taken up jobs at the
construction sites, such as security guards, loading and unloading staff etc. Non-farm income was a major
contributing factor to the fast income increase. The percentage of sidelines and other non-farm income
increased from 57% in 1992 to 88% in 1994 and 93% in 1999. Similarly, all 11 resettlement villages are
complete with improved village infrastructure. Housing conditions have improved in terms of housing area
and construction quality. Education and medical facilities have also seen significant improvement. School
enrollment has reached 100%.

However, with the dam construction completed, many of the construction-related employment opportunities
have disappeared. The resettlers have experienced a drop in their income. As their coping strategy, they
have started to give more attention to agricultural activities, farming and sidelines as well as looking for
alternative non-farm employment opportunities. Henan Government is also exploring possibilities of
getting additional land for some villages short of land.




                                                      - 52 -

Additional Annex 11. Consultation, Participation and Grievance Redress Mechanism

Consultation and participation. Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project followed a participatory approach for
planning and implementation. This was effectively implemented during the project planning and
implementation process.

Information dissemination was key step in this process. The project offices mobilized various media
channels to disseminate project information for consultation and participation purpose. These include news
paper, radio broadcast, information booklet, household inventory card and compensation card ( one for
each household), TV programs, resettlement policy papers, resettlement newspaper, village information
bulletin boards etc. Information disseminated relate to resettlement policies, compensation rates and
measures, household inventory, resettlement alternatives and site designs, grievance channels. Village
meetings, group discussions and household visits are also used to encourage consultations with resettlers on
inventory verification, resettlement alternatives, housing construction and resettlement implementation.
While the design institutes and the government played a central role in planning and design, the resettlers
had the final say in finalizing the resettlement program. This is reflected in the entire planning and
implementation process.

All local governments, villager representatives and affected institutions participated in the project inventory
and census work. Village representatives confirmed and signed off on the inventory results of collective
assets. All affected households and representatives of affected institutions have also confirmed the
inventory by signing on the inventory results. The 1995 up-dated survey was also responding to local
requests in view of the continuous development in the project areas.

Local governments, with the assistance of design institutes, proposed the initial resettlement plan. This
plan was disclosed among affected and host villages for consultation. Resettler representatives were
organized to tour the resettlement sites and met with host villages. Agreements were reached and signed off
between the resettlement and host villages, and the resettlement and host governments before the project
proceeded into the next stage of designs. Some villages proposed their own resettlement sites. These
proposals were assessed by design institutes for technical feasibility and finalized after repeated
consultations. All resettlement sites were finalized for implementation only after they were endorsed by the
resettlers.

Resettlers are the key players in the resettlement implementation program and they drove the
implementation process with assistance and supervision by the government. This is reflected in the
following:

      Land purchase and resettlement agreements signed between resettlement and host townships, between
       resettlement and host villages after meetings and consultations.

      Land compensation payment and transfer completed, coordinated and supervised by host
       governments.

      Resettler finalization of their own household resettlement program. If different from planned
       alternatives, household preference was discussed with village council and assessed by design
       institutes and governments for feasibility, and finalized within all concerned.

      Village layout and design finalized and endorsed by the villages.




                                                     - 53 -

      Household residential plots allocation, normally following a procedure discussed and agreed during
       the village meeting. Typically it was collectively measured, demarcated, numbered and allocated by
       drawing lots.

      House construction, generally organized by the households themselves following a village general
       plan.

      Household financial compensation cards issued and publicized in the villages.

      Household farmland allocated following procedures discussed and decided in the village meetings.

      Use of village collective funds generally publicized in village bulletin boards and supervised by the
       villagers.

Grievance redress. Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project has established a grievance redress mechanism. All
levels of resettlement offices have established grievance redress sections, with assigned staff to receive,
register, resolve and follow up on the grievances. YRWHDCRO issued a "Working Procedures And Rules
on Resettler Grievance Redress" which covers the scope, institutional setup, staffing and working
procedure to address grievances.

The project followed the grievance redress procedure. Grievance redress started at the village level where
village leaders would pass on the grievances to township and county resettlement offices if they cannot
resolve it. Where grievances cannot be resolved within the policy framework of the project, resettlers have
the alternative of filing cases at court. The project has a huge institutional setup to implement and
supervise the resettlement program. This involves resettlement offices at various levels, the resettlement
supervisor and independent monitors. The entire setup has maintained a continuous presence in the field to
facilitate early identification and fast resolution of grievances.

Grievances redress continued throughout the project planning and implementation period. The project has
registered 1122 grievances, most of which were registered orally by the resettlers. The grievances filed
vary at different stages of the project and they can be grouped into issues on resettlement site (inside,
outside movement), missed items or mistakes in inventory, compensation rates and abuse of power by
village leaders.

      Selection of resettlement site was a complicated and time-consuming process. Finalization of the site
       selection went through repeated consultations, following frequent requests by resettler households
       during the project implementation to change the resettlement sites. Normally requests in this regard
       were discussed, assessed for feasibility and determined in consultation with the resettler households.
       In situations requiring adjustment to the overall project resettlement planning, such requests with
       recommendations based on investigations and consultations were submitted to the Ministry of Water
       Resources for final decisions.

      Inventory record was the second most reported grievance. The biggest move on this is the 1994-1995
       updated survey that led to increase in all categories of impacts and total project cost. Individual
       household grievances of this kind were normally first verified by villages and township governments,
       and then reported in summarized forms to the provinces for decisions. Major mistakes or missing
       items were verified by the Project Resettlement Supervisor, the RPDI and the Resettlement Offices
       and then recognized for compensation.




                                                       - 54 -

 Compensation rates were generally publicized and known. Complaints about compensation rates
  were normally investigated by the project resettlement offices, and if true, would be required to be
  corrected.

 Housing quality. In the early phases of the project, several villages organized construction of the
  new houses for the resettlers. These collectively built houses experienced quality problems. These
  were eventually addressed in a consultative process.

 Land quality. Distance and quality of allocated land was another frequently reported complaint.
  Most of these were reported at village level, rather than household level. The issue was often the
  long distance to the allocated land, accessibility to irrigation and land quality. These issues were
  addressed on a village by village basis by county and provincial resettlement offices, through either
  engineering or alternative measures.

 Abuse of power by village leaders and local officials. Village level democracy developed rapidly in
  the course of project implementation. Where village leaders abused their power, villagers voted them
  out of village administration. Some were put under criminal investigation when they broke the law.
  It is the same with local government officials.




                                                 - 55 -

Additional Annex 12. Gender And Vulnerable Households in Resettlement And
Rehabilitation

Vulnerable households

Vulnerable households refer to the old, disabled, household with people suffering chronic diseases, without
labor, widowed and extreme poor. The Independent Monitor has covered these groups, totaling 5,175
people in 1,568 households, which is about 3 % of the total resettler population. The project office is
keenly aware of the presence of the vulnerable groups and the need to give them special care during the
resettlement design and implementation process. Under the care of the village council and various levels of
project agencies, the vulnerable groups received special attention and assistance during implementation.
All of them have received their resettlement entitlements, including land, house plots and various
compensations and subsidies. Villages organized the construction of their new houses and all of them have
moved into new houses. Specific assistance delivered to the vulnerable households include the following:

Budget provisions. The project has planned two support subsidies for the vulnerable groups. One is a
30.52 million yuan housing subsidy to support those households without or with very poor housing in new
house construction. The other subsidy is a 14.36 million yuan education and health subsidy. These two
subsidies were estimated and included in the project resettlement budget.

During the project implementation, some extreme poor households who used to live in caves experienced
difficulties in building new houses. YRWHDCRO, HPRO and SPRO set up a special fund using physical
contingency to address this issue. In Henan, a special fund was created at 1,000 yuan per resettler at 7% of
the total resettler population, totaling 9.37 million yuan. This has benefited 9,370 people in 2,747
households. In Shanxi Province, the practice was to top up the house compensation for those whose house
compensation fund was less than 2,500 yuan per person to 2,500 yuan per person. A total of 2.75 million
yuan was spent in this regard, benefiting 2764 people in 698 households. These funds were allocated to the
poor villages as part of the annual budget. The vulnerable households were identified by the villages
themselves and confirmed by the local resettlement offices. The amounts for these households were
publicized in the villages and paid to the households for house construction. These measures, totaling
12.12 million yuan benefited 12,134 people in 3,445 households and helped with the housing reconstruction
process.

Assistance in housing and old age care. For vulnerable households who need assistance in construction of
new houses, the villages normally played the leading role. They mobilized laborers, materials and even
credit within the villages to help them build houses. Some villages also built village houses for the
vulnerable households, such as the widowed and provided free meals. The new villages represent an
improvement for the older people in terms of housing conditions, access to transport and health services.
However, the changed environment also exerted psychological pressure on them. The project resettlement
agencies and villages took particular care for the need of the old and widowed people. Some township
governments and villages built nursing homes for the old and widowed people where the care cost is paid
for by the township and villages. In the resettlement areas, there are 62 nursing homes. These nursing
homes receive government subsidies and have medical staff and caregivers.




                                                      - 56 -

Project Impacts on Women And Children

Women take up 48% of the total resettlers and 57% of them are in labor force (18-45 years old). They have
played an important role in the resettlement process and the socioeconomic development in the resettlement
areas. Women participated in the entire process of project planning and implementation. This includes the
inventory, census, the finalization of resettlement sites, selection of housing type, land allocation, use of
village compensation fund, livelihood activities, construction of village infrastructure and schools. Women
also played an important role in income generation activities, particularly in aquaculture and planting
industry. The project also paid important attention to the skill training and the active participation of
women in livelihood development activities, such as green houses vegetable growing, forestry, fruit trees
and courtyard orchard etc. There are 466 women staff, about 31% of the total staff at various levels of the
project offices. There are also 553 staff in women's union at various levels in the project areas. They
participated in the village decision-making process in resettlement. Briefly, project impacts can be
summarized as follows:

l The project significantly improved the housing conditions of the resettlers. Women resettlers all feel
    that this is one of the key aspects of the improved living environment.

l The project has significantly improved the physical living environment for the resettlers. All the
    resettlement sites are complete with streets, power, water supply and drainage systems. They no longer
    need to go and carry water over a long distance. This saved them time and energy.

l The convenient location of the resettlement sites have also improved their access to information, market
    and job opportunities.

l The project has also improved the conditions for livelihood activities and lessened the burden on female
    members of the resettler households. The resettlers who have moved into the plain areas now have
    higher level of mechanization that has reduced their work load in the field.

l Women resettlers used to experience tremendous physiological and mental pressure before resettlement
    when their husbands worked as daily wagers in small coal mines where accidents were frequent. Coal
    miners often developed work-related diseases, such as arthritis and lung problems. With new
    livelihood alternatives, the incidence of these diseases is much reduced and they no longer have to
    worry about that.

l Women resettlers received equal opportunities for education, training and extension service. The
    project has provided training to resettlers 84,550 person-times, including 34,665 for women. Women
    resettlers enjoyed an equal opportunities in land allocation, livelihood development and non-farm
    employment measures. They also participated actively in village politics in the resettlement process.

l There were 29,239 children (aged 7-16) relocated, about 17% of the total. Their education was given
    the highest attention. According to the Independent Monitor, all resettlement sites with over 100
    households have their own elementary schools and all sites with over 500 households have their own
    middle schools. All resettlement villages have met the state requirements in terms of teacher-student
    ratio and school area. The sample survey in 10 representative resettlement villages indicates that the
    teacher-student ratio is 5.9 teachers for every 100 students, while that of the host villages is 4.6. Their
    classroom area is 6.3 m2 per student compared with 5.8 m2 in the host villages. School attendance has
    reached 100% except in nine villages where seriously disabled children couldn't go to school.

l The best buildings in the resettlement areas are the school buildings. The study environment has
    improved. Children are much closer to their homes, have more time to play and study, and participate
    in after-school activities. Better school environment has also attracted better school faculty.



                                                     - 57 -

l All resettlement villages have clinics and the resettlers enjoy improved medical treatment. Prior to
  resettlement, they did not have clinics in the villages and had to travel a long distance to township
  hospitals or clinics for treatment. Now, most villages have clinics that provide medical services. They
  are much closer to township or county hospitals. Monitoring data indicates that on average the
  resettler villages have 2.1 clinics in each village as compared with 2.4 in the host villages, 2.7 doctors
  compared with 2.4 in host villages and 3.2 kilometer to central hospitals as compared to 2.9 for the
  host villages. Women resettlers are able to receive regular check-up during pregnancy. Safety of both
  mothers and infants are much better ensured. At-home delivery has dropped significantly among the
  resettlers. In the project areas, hospital delivery has reached 90% for rural mothers and over 98% for
  mothers in their advanced maternal age. At the same time, children are now able to receive regular
  immunization services.




                                                    - 58 -

Additional Annex 13. Project Organization and Management

Project Organization

The project organization was established as designed in the SAR. The Ministry of Water Resources was
the overall responsible agency, represented by YRWHDCRO who managed the implementation of the
project. HPRO and SPRO, with the prefecture, county and township resettlement offices, were the project
implementing agencies. In addition, RPDI played a leading role throughout the implementation process as
the project designer. North China Water Resources And Hydropower Institute was appointed as the
Independent Monitor and was monitoring the project implementation since the project start. The MWR
also engaged the Resettlement Bureau of YRCC as the Resettlement Supervisor. As designed, the
International Environment And Resettlement Panel functioned according to its Terms of Reference as
concurred by the World Bank.

Changes to organization. There are some changes in the organizational setup. First, the Leading Group as
described in the SAR was modified into an annual coordination meeting between the provinces and the
central ministries. Second, YRWHDCRO replaced the YRCC Resettlement Bureau as the project
management agency. A Resettlement Supervisor was appointed during the course of project
implementation to strengthen project management.

Organizational Function

Resettlement Leading Group. This was a high level coordination body, consisting mainly of the Vice
Minister of MWR, and the vice governors of Henan and Shanxi Provinces. Their main function was to
deliberate key policies and major issues in project implementation. The Leading Group had three meetings
at critical times of the project implementation and helped address key issues.

MWR Resettlement Bureau. This bureau was supervising and guiding the project implementation on
behalf of the ministry. It had five divisions with a total 23 staff. Its main responsibility was to supervise
the project implementation, advise and recommend to the ministry on key project issues. The bureau
carried out regular supervision of the projects and helped address bottlenecks during project
implementation.

YRWHDCRO. This agency managed the resettlement implementation on behalf of the YRWHDC. It had
four divisions with 42 staff. Its main responsibilities were to i) manage and coordinate project
implementation, ii) liaison with the World Bank, iii) liaison with MWR and local implementing agencies,
iv) contract and coordinate the external consulting services (RPDI, Independent Monitor, Resettlement
Supervisor, International Panel etc), v) review and approve provincial implementation plans, vi) receive,
disburse and supervise the use of resettlement funds, and vii) supervise project progress and coordinate
resolution of key resettlement issues. This was one of the key and critical agencies. YRWHDCRO has
effectively carried out its responsibilities, enabled the project to progress as planned and achieved the
project targets in progress and quality.

Implementing agencies. Both Henan and Shanxi Provincial Governments established a project
implementing system in their provinces. This involved two provincial resettlement offices, seven municipal
resettlement offices, and thirteen county resettlement leading groups as well as resettlement offices. The
main responsibilities of the implementing agencies involves i) the development and review of the
resettlement plans, ii) development and review of the annual resettlement implementation plans, iii)



                                                       - 59 -

disbursement and supervision of resettlement funds, iv) actual implementation of the resettlement and
livelihood rehabilitation program, v) regular supervision and reporting of implementation progress and
quality, vi) provision of assistance to the Independent Monitor, Resettlement Supervisor and the
International Panel in their routine operations, and vi) overall project implementation. This involved over
close to 1000 full time resettlement staff and the assistance of all other government agencies at the county
and township level. This institutional setup represents the commitment of Henan and Shanxi Provinces to
the successful completion of the project as well as the full restoration and sustainable development of the
livelihoods of the resettlers.

RPDI. RPDI was the planning and designing institute of the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Program. It played a
leading role in the resettlement planning and the detailed design of the resettlement program. Its main
responsibility involved i) conducting inventory, ii) developing the resettlement plan, iii) participation in and
guiding the preparation of the project implementation plan, iv) revision of the resettlement design and v)
technical assistance and service in implementation. RPDI's work has laid a solid and important basis for
the finalization of the resettlement program and its implementation.

Independent Monitor, Resettlement Supervisor and International Panel. In order to ensure the successful
implementation of the project, the project design included additional monitoring mechanisms, i.e. the
Independent Monitoring, International Environment And Resettlement Panel. During the course of project
implementation, MWR decided to introduce additional monitoring mechanism, i.e. Resettlement
Supervisor. These mechanisms have much strengthened the management of the project. See Annex 14 for
details.

Staff Training

Training has been an important step to build up the institutional capacity. Regular training were planned
and carried out for resettlement staff at every level. Training activities included overseas and domestic
study tours, various technical training sessions, trainings by experts, training in universities, staff exchange
between projects, regular on-job training and on-site training as well. These training sessions cover
resettlement policies, resettlement planning guidelines and methodologies, project management, resettlement
accounting, environment protection, resettlement monitoring, supervision etc.




                                                      - 60 -

Additional Annex 14. Project Monitoring And Supervision

As part of the project management system, the Ministry of Water Resources established an independent
monitoring and supervision system. This system consisted of three parts, i.e. the independent monitoring of
the resettlement progress, the independent supervision of the resettlement program and the independent
monitoring of the environment and public health aspects of the project.


Independent Monitoring. As agreed in the Credit Agreement with the Bank, North China Water
Conservancy and Hydropower Institute was appointed 1994 as the Independent Monitor to carry out social
economic monitoring of the resettlement program. This monitoring was conducted twice a year since 1994.

Monitoring scope. The independent monitoring covered mainly social economic development status of the
resettlers and the host population as well as the social adjustment of the resettler communities. Specifically
it monitored,

l Resettlement funds allocation, disbursement and use at various levels of government agencies
l Compensation fund payment to resettler households and host villages
l Livelihood activities
l Resettler relocation
l Living standard restoration assessment for both resettler and host population
l Infrastructure development for both the resettler and host population
l Public service systems (schools, hospitals etc) for both the resettler and host population
l Social adjustment of the resettler communities (institutional setup, preferential policy implementation,
    social and economic integration of the resettler and host population
l Vulnerable groups in resettlement
l Women in resettlement


Monitoring organization and methodology. The monitoring team, which developed into the Resettlement
Monitoring Institute, had 20 staff in the fields of economics, sociology, engineering, agriculture and
irrigation. The institute also contracted local staff in the county and village to collect and verify monitoring
data. Monitoring was conducted twice a year, with a final monitoring in January 2004. Independent
monitoring was conducted on a sample basis (village and households) for each phase of the resettlement
program. In order to be as representative as possible, the sampling has factored in geographical
distribution, different phases of the resettlement program, different levels of economic development,
different social economic settings, attention to the vulnerable groups. It covered 1538 households from 133
resettler villages and 206 households from 22 host village.

Monitoring information was collected through establishing a running database on income and expenditure
for each sample household, interview of the sample households, focus group meetings, questionnaire
investigation and special surveys.

l Household database. Each sample household recorded its daily income and expenditure and compiled
    on a monthly and quarterly basis. Staff from the local monitoring stations visited them monthly to
    check and collect the information, and inputted the data into the computerized system as the main basis
    for income evaluation.

l Household interview. In the semi-annual monitoring, the expert teams randomly checked on sample
    households on their income and expenditure against the running database. These interviews also



                                                       - 61 -

    covered other aspects of the resettlement program.

l Focus group meetings with resettlers, women, different income groups, local government officials and
    project staff

l Questionnaire survey on sample households at the resettlement sites.

l Special investigations, such as on host population and affected industries.

l Briefings from the project offices


The collected information was processed and analyzed for monitoring evaluation twice a year. The
analysis was conducted comparing against the baseline information as contained in the general plan,
baseline living standard survey and the Bank Staff Appraisal Report. At each monitoring would review the
project physical progress, the implementation process, the overall impacts of living standard restoration as
well as following up on issues identified in the previous monitoring exercises, using both qualitative and
quantitative methods. Apart from the regular tracked household monitoring, the Independent Monitor
provided two baseline living standard surveys, 21 regular monitoring reports, three special monitoring
reports as well as one final monitoring report on the overall project at the beginning of 2004.

The project monitoring is a decade-long process of exploring, learning and improvement through practice.
Independent monitoring of resettlement program was a new concept at the start of the project in 1993. The
government, the Bank and the Independent Monitor experienced a long and gradual process of development
and improvement process in terms of monitoring concept, scope, procedures and methodologies. This is
well reflected in each monitoring report. This is pioneering work at this scale and has served the project
well.

Resettlement Supervision. YRWHDCRO replicated the practice of supervising engineer for civil works
management and appointed `the Resettlement Bureau of the Yellow River Commission' as the
project/Resettlement Supervisor.

Supervision organization. The supervisor started working in June 1996 and has conducted supervision for
Phase I-III of its reservoir resettlement. The supervisor has adopted a Chief Supervisor Responsibility
System. The Resettlement Bureau established a supervising team under the leadership of the Chief
Supervisor with 43 supervising staff. Six supervising stations were set up in the project counties, each
with 5-6 staff. The chief supervisor was responsible for the execution of the supervision contract and
coordination with local governments and the project offices.

Supervision scope. According to the supervision contract, the supervision covered the following,

l Resettlement physical progress, including resettlement site development, infrastructure development at
    the site, residential house construction, farmland allocation, on-farm development, town relocation and
    reconstruction, resettlement and reconstruction of large schemes, restoration of infrastructure and
    public facilities around the reservoir, relocation of institutions and enterprises, resettler relocation and
    reservoir clearance.

l Resettlement funds, covering fund disbursement at different levels of government and fund use
    according to annual plans, payment of resettlement compensation.

l Construction quality and specifications, covering infrastructure, resettler houses and public buildings.

l Information management, covering implementation information collection and exchanges.




                                                     - 62 -

l Contract management, covering the implementation of contracts between different levels of
     governments; and

l Coordination, covering continuous information disclosure, relationships between resettlers and
     construction units and contractors with the project office.

Supervision methodology. The methodology includes the following,

l Information collection through site inspection, interviews and group meetings;

l Reporting system. Supervision teams conducted monthly overall supervision, submitted supervision
     reports to Chief Supervisor who provided monthly overall project supervision briefs and quarterly
     supervision reports to local governments and the project offices. The supervisor produced one final
     supervision report for the entire project.;

l Sharing supervision information with all relevant project agencies, including MWR, project office,
     province, city and county governments;

l Information disclosure in oral and written format to local governments and local people about project
     policy and planning details, problems and agreed measures to address them;

l Supervision notice. In case of identification of major problems or deviations from design, contracts or
     plans, supervising staff would issue supervision notice to alert relevant agencies, recommending and
     requesting corrective measures; and

l Regular supervision and coordination meetings with contractors, project office, villages and local
     governments to discuss identified or potential problems and recommendations to address them.

Evaluation of Resettlement Supervision. The past six years of practice indicate that resettlement
supervision has proved to be an effective and necessary tool in i) checking on the progress, quality and
financial flow of the project, ii) quantifying and confirming resettlement progress through independent and
first-hand data, iii) facilitating information flow and iv) improving coordination among contractors, project
offices, communities and local governments.

International Panel of Experts. Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project established this panel in July 1994 to
assist in the implementation of the resettlement and environmental aspects of the project. The panel
consisted of domestic and international experts of various expertise. Its composition changed during
different phases of the project when the perceived needs and advice had also changed. The panel convened
11 times and produced 11 reports. In general, the panel played a useful role in the project management and
provided good advice in its implementation and management.




                                                      - 63 -

Additional Annex 15. Environment Management

Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project has effectively executed "the Project Environmental Management Plan
(EMP)" as described in the SAR and agreed in the Credit Agreement. The implementation of the EMP is
considered Satisfactory and has realized its major environmental objectives. In July 2003, the State
Environmental Protection Agency, on the basis of a nation-wide assessment, awarded the Xiaolangdi
Multipurpose Project (including the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project) the third place among the 100 most
environment-friendly investment projects in China. The project is considered to have many pioneering
practices which would be of much value for future investment projects in China.


Major Environmental Impacts & Environment Management Plan

The project Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was developed in 1992 and it detailed project
environmental impacts. The major environmental issues are related to impacts of i) inundation and
relocation, ii) cultural relics, iii) resettlement activities in host areas, iv) public health among both resettlers
and host population; v) relocation and development of industries and vi) reservoir clearing.

As an important part of the EIA, a comprehensive EMP was developed detailing environmental
management tasks for both Xiaolangdi Multi-purpose Project and the Resettlement Project. The EMP
covered ten aspects of environmental management activities involved in implementation of XRP, including:
i) establishment and operation of environmental management system; ii) environmental management in
resettlement villages; iii) environmental management in resettlement enterprises; iv) environmental
management in host areas; v) reservoir clearing; vi) cultural relics; vii) environment monitoring; viii)
environment training; ix) use of international panel of experts and x) provision of environmental
management fund.

Implementation of EMP

Establishment of Environmental Management System. Since 1994, Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project
established an environment management system to implement the EMP. This is the first such system in
China that introduces the environment management office (EMO), environment supervising engineer
(ESE), village environment officer (VEO), and panel of experts (POE) into implementation of a major
resettlement Project, which are described below.

l YRWHDCRO established an EMO in 1994. This EMO was responsible for the management and
    monitoring of the implementation of the EMP. Several technical consultants from resettlement design
    institute and environmental monitoring institutes were contracted to provide technical assistance to the
    EMO.

l The EMO employed a team from RPDI as the project ESE with responsibilities to supervise, monitor
    and provide on-site assistance to local ROs and villages during the implementation of the EMP. The
    team consisted generally of six environmental professionals.

l A VEO was selected and appointed in each resettlement village. This VEO was usually a member of
    village committee. Special training was provided to all VEOs. The VEOs were responsible, under
    guidance of the ESE, for the implementation of the EMP in the villages including implementation of
    environmental facilities and public health programs.

l An international panel of experts on environment and resettlement (POE) was established by the
    YRWHDCRO. The purpose of the sub-panel was to review every six months the performance of all
    parties involved in environmental management and to report to both the YRWHDCRO and the World


                                                         - 64 -

    Bank on its findings and recommendations for needed improvements.

l In addition, the system also involved provincial and county resettlement offices, Henan and Shanxi
    Provincial Archeological Institutes, other environmental monitoring institutes and local environment
    protection bureaus.

The following figure illustrates the parties involved in the system and their relationships.



                       World Bank                            YRWHDCRO                                  Local EPBs



                                                                                                                 Management/contract
                                                                                                                 Coordinate/report

                             POE                                  EMO/RS




                                                                                       Henan/Shanxi ROs




      WRPB                      YRC                  RPDI                City/County ROs                     Henan/Shanxi AIs
                                   H



            Reservoir Area and Resettlement Area / Resettlement Villages and VEOs


     Note: YRWHCROresponsible for implementation of XRP; EMO-fully responsible for overall environmental management for
     XRP; WRPB  Yellow River Water Resources Protection Bureau, responsible for drinking water quality monitoring in resettlement
     villages; YRCHYellow River Central Hospital, public health; RPDIEnvironmental Supervision Engineer (Environmental
     Inspectors); Provincial and local ROsresponsible for implementation of XRP in their administration area; Henan/Shanxi AIs
     Henan/Shanxi provincial Archeological Institutes; VEOsVillage Environmental Officers; POEPanel of Experts, meet semi-
     annually to review environmental performance of all parties involved;




In order to ensure smooth and effective operation of the system, a reporting mechanism was established.
The EMO produced semi-annual reports to local government, to the POE, and to World Bank supervision
missions.

This management system with EMO as the core element, was effective and ensured the implementation of
the EMP and the realization of the major objectives stated in the EMP. Xiaolangdi experience on
environmental management has shown that such a system is necessary for a large scale resettlement project
such as XRP in China or in other developing countries.




                                                                           - 65 -

Environmental management in resettlement villages. The key component of the EMP was the provision and
operation of environmental and public health facilities in the new resettlement villages for resettlers. These
facilities, including housing, water supply, drainage, road, solid waste treatment, excreta management,
health care, and school sanitation significantly improved resettler's sanitary conditions and helped with the
protection of resettlers' health in new resettlement areas. The following facilities have been made available
to resettlement villages:

l Water supply to 100% of the households with piped water to 80% households and yard, and individual
    wells to the rest 20% households;
l Sanitary or improved toilets to 100% households: two-pit toilets: 64%; water flush toilets:10%;
    single-pit toilets: 26%;
l In village drainage in 100% villages;
l Designated solid waste disposal sites for 57% villages;
l Paved in-village roads in 100% villages with 74% hardened (concrete or asphalt);
l Paved access roads to 100% villages with 81% hardened (concrete or asphalt);
l 1-5 clinics in each village;
l Power supply available to 100% villages;
l Telephone service to 100% villages;
l TV programs to 100% villages;
l Significant tree planting in over 50% villages.


An innovative practice in implementation of environmental protection measures (EPMs) in resettlement
villages is the use of village environmental officers (VEOs). Each resettlement village appointed one VEO,
usually a member of village committee, to be responsible for ensuring implementation of the EPMs in the
village including construction of environmental facilities and implementation of public health programs.
Xiaolangdi experience has indicated that use of VEOs in XRP is quite successful and the VEOs have
played a unique role in the implementation of EPMs in resettlement villages.

Environmental management in resettlement enterprises. Due to the cancellation of the industrial
resettlement component, only a few enterprises were established for resettlement. Only 34 of the affected
enterprises were relocated or shifted to new production activities, of which most are small scale township or
village enterprises (TVEs). They were closely monitored by local environmental protection agencies for
compliance with Chinese environmental requirements during relocation or development. Periodic
monitoring and investigation by ESE showed that generally, those enterprises observed Chinese
environmental requirements including EIA requirements.

Environmental management in host area. Environmental impacts of the project on host area were mainly
related to the natural environment and the quality of life of host population. As the resettlers moved into
the host areas, one of the concerns was about possible pressure on wildlife, forests and soil erosion due to
the intense land development of resettlers. Measures were taken into consideration in the detailed project
designs to prevent these possible impacts. Most resettlers were relocated in the already developed
agricultural areas. Tremendous emphasis was placed against tree cutting and on tree plantation in
resettlement areas. In addition, many villages also participated in the government's "Land Retirement
Program", which reverted slope farmland to forestry land. The impacts of resettlement project on natural
environment was quite limited.

A public health monitoring program was carried out since 1996 in both resettlement and host areas
including reservoir surrounding areas. The monitoring program includes disease incidence investigation,
physical examination for villagers in five resettlement villages and four host villages. The monitoring



                                                     - 66 -

results showed that project implementation did not cause adverse impacts on public health in host areas.

Environmental monitoring. The project environment monitoring mainly includes monitoring of
implementation of EMP, water quality in resettlement villages and public health of both resettlers and host
population. The Environment Supervising Engineer (ESE) carried out the environmental monitoring of the
implementation of the EMP in resettlement villages and in resettlement enterprises. The involvement of the
ESE proved to be quite effective. The regular monitoring facilitated timely information flow on
environmental issues and helped the EMO make management decisions and their timely execution.

The YRPB was assigned by the EMO to be responsible for monitoring of drinking water quality in
resettlement townships and villages. The monitoring covered all resettlement villages. Monitoring findings
helped with the selection of the resettlement sites and ensured safe water supply to resettlers.

The Yellow River Central Hospital (YRCH) was responsible for monitoring sanitation and anti-epidemic
program in resettlement villages. YRCH carried out physical examinations for resettlers and host villagers
since 1998. YRCH concluded from these examination that there was no outbreak of state-classified
infectious disease (Category 1-2) and there was no discernable difference on disease cases and morbidities
between resettlement villages and host villages and between villages relocated locally and villages relocated
in other county.

The YRCH also carried out investigations on infectious diseases in Xiaolangdi Area in 1996, 1998, and
2001 respectively. From the investigation results, following conclusions may be made:

      No obvious increase on the morbidities of those infectious diseases occurred, compared with the
       morbidities in 1985 before commencement of Xiaolangdi Project, which means no significant impacts
       of Xiaolangdi Project on infectious diseases situations in Xiaolangdi Area.

      The morbidities of the three major infectious diseases in Xiaolangdi Area identified in EIA/1992,
       malaria, hemorrhagic fever, and encephalitis, decrease yearly and have decreased to a quite low level,
       from 2.56/100,000 in 1986 to 0.22/100,000 in 2000, from 8.68/100,000 in 1986 to 0.16/100,000 in
       2000, from 3.65/100,000 in 1986 to 2.44/100,000 in 2000, respectively, which indicates that the
       implementation of the EPMs on public health in Xiaolangdi area has been quite effective.

Reservoir Clearing. In line with the regulation issued by MWR on reservoir clearing, the reservoir clearing
was carried out in three phases. County resettlement offices took the lead in organizing and implementing
the clearing activities following requirements set up by MWR. Pertinent sanitary, anti-epidemic and
environmental protection agencies took part in the clearing activities. Each clearing was firstly inspected
and accepted by an inspection team formed by representatives from YRWHDCRO, HPRO, SPRO,
provincial environment protection bureau, project design institute and other related agencies. Final
acceptance and approval was given by a group of officials and experts organized by MWR. Reservoir
clearings were been carried out in 1997, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2003 respectively and all the clearings have
been accepted with satisfaction.

Environmental training. The International Panel of Experts provided basic training to EMO staff and
environmental monitoring teams. The EMO and provincial resettlement offices organized five training
courses for VEOs during 1998-2002. The training courses for VEOs proved to be quite effective. Though
the training by the POE was quite valuable, one big gap in Xiaolangdi environmental management was the
lack of systematic training for YRWHDCRO and EMO staff, environmental officials of provincial and
county ROs and for staff of environmental monitoring institutes. The gap caused unnecessary difficulties



                                                     - 67 -

in the process of implementation of the EMP, particularly at the beginning phase.

Use of International Panel of Environmental Experts (POE). As agreed in the Project Credit Agreement,
an international panel of experts on environment and resettlement (POE) was established by the
YRWHDCRO in 1994. The POE consisted of two foreign and seven domestic experts three of whom
formed the environmental sub-panel. A total of 12 POE meetings were held and 12 POE reports were
prepared in the period of 1994-2000. Xiaolangdi experience showed that use of the POE has proven to be
necessary and successful. The POE played an essential role in guiding and promoting the establishment
and effective operation of the environmental management system and the successful implementation of the
EMP.

Environmental management fund. In the project EMP, a total of 125.6 million yuan was estimated for the
implementation of the overall EMP for both the dam construction and the resettlement. A total of 72.42
million yuan was budgeted and approved for implementation of the EMP for the Resettlement Project in
1998, in which:

l 14.46 million yuan for reservoir clearing;
l 35.26 million yuan for protection of cultural relics; and
l 22.52 million yuan for other tasks of the EMP/RS.


The other tasks of EMP/XRP included establishment and operation of EMO, environmental monitoring,
environmental supervision, environmental training, operation of international panel of experts, and special
fund for environmental subsidies (VEOs and extension of two-pit toilets) etc. By the end of 2003, all above
budgets had been made available.




                                                  - 68 -

Table 1: Summary Evaluation of Implementation of Environmental Management Plan in XRP

         Item                     Task Description                   Implementer      Implementation     Evaluation
                                                                                            Status
1. Set up                Organize and monitor implementation       Yellow River         Implemented
Environmental            of environmental protection activities    Water and                            Highly
Management                                                         Hydropower                           Satisfactory
Leading Group and                                                  Development
EMO                                                                Corporation
                                                                   (YRWHDC)
2. Seismic               Tasks of EMO/Dam/YRWHDC                                       Not Applicable
Monitoring
3. Planning and          a. complete EIA of resettlement area      Local                Implemented     Satisfactory
   Monitoring            b. organize and implement                 resettlement         Implemented     Satisfactory
   Implementation        environmental aspects of resettlement     offices,             Implemented     Satisfactory
   of Resettlement       planning                                  environmental        Implemented     Satisfactory
                         c. write up quarterly report on           protection           Implemented     Satisfactory
                         resettlement progress                     bureaus (EPBs),
                         d. do annual socioeconomic                experts employed
                         environmental evaluation in the host      by EMO/RS
                         area
                         e. conduct environmental management
                         of development projects
4. Protection of         a. organize and monitor                   Provincial           Implemented     Satisfactory
Cultural Relics          implementation of cultural relics         Cultural Relics
                         protection activities                     Bureaus
                         b. prepare quarterly reports
5. Sanitation and        a. give annual physical examinations to   Reservoir            Implemented     Satisfactory
Anti- epidemic           1-10% of people in host areas or other    Anti-epidemic
Program                  affected areas                            Station and          Implemented       Highly
                         b. monitor epidemic situations, rats,     station at           Implemented     Satisfactory
                         mosquitoes, diet, hygiene                 province,            Implemented       Highly
                         c. control rats and mosquitoes to         prefecture, and                      Satisfactory
                         prevent malaria, encephalitis and         municipal levels
                         hemorrhagic fever                                                              Satisfactory
                         d. distribute vaccines to susceptible
                         communities
6. Monitoring of         a. b. c.  Tasks of                       YRCC Water
  Water Quality          EMO/Dam/YRWHDC                            Resources Bureau     Implemented     Satisfactory
                         d. analyze water quality
7. Construction          Tasks of EMO/Dam/YRWHDC                                       Not Applicable
Area
8. Reservoir             a. Clear the reservoir area               Resettlement         Implemented        Highly
Clearing                                                           Office                                Satisfactory
9. Special Studies       Tasks of EMO/Dam/YRWHDC                                       Not Applicable
10. Environmental        a. set up an environmental library        EMO/RS               Implemented     Satisfactory
Library,                 b. employ expert consultants as                                Implemented       Highly
Consultants and          required                                                          Partially    Satisfactory
Technical                c. technically train staff of EMO/RS                           Implemented    Unsatisfactory
Exchanges                and EIA Team

Note: 1. The table is prepared in accordance with the summary table of EIA/Xiaolangdi Project 1992; MWR = Ministry of
        Water Resources;
      2. EMO/RS= EMO under Xiaolangdi Resettlement Office which is responsible for environmental management of
        Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project;
      3. EMO/Dam/YRWHD= EMO under YRWHDC which is responsible for environmental management of Xiaolangdi
        Dam construction and operation.




                                                             - 69 -

Additional Annex 16. Cultural Property Preservation And Protection

The project is located in the cradle of the Yellow River civilization and the creation of the Xiaolangdi
Reservoir has great impacts on the many cultural and historic sites both under and above ground.
Following Chinese policies, identification, restoration and protection of cultural relics were integrated into
the project design and human resources nation-wide were mobilized to carry out the cultural relics work
that largely includes exploration, excavation, restoration and protection. Restoration and protection plans
were implemented with satisfaction and key findings have been studied and published.

Chinese policies. The Chinese government has enacted a series of laws, regulations, technical guideline and
standards regarding cultural relics protection in capital investment projects. They cover the definition,
classification, appraisal and treatment procedures of cultural relics, methodologies and responsibilities for
cultural relics protection in design and approval of civil works, investigation, exploration and excavation of
cultural relics in construction, funding as well as repairing, preservation and research of found cultural
relics. Main principles followed are:

l For large civil work investment, the project proponent should work with the provincial cultural relics
    administration bureaus to investigate and explore the possible relics sites.

l If any relics is found, the project proponent and the cultural relics administration bureau should reach
    an agreement on the required measures which will be reviewed by the Chinese Social Science Academy
    and approved by the State Cultural Relics Administration Bureau. No civil work is allowed to start
    before completion of excavation.

l If relics is found during construction, the civil works should be stopped immediately. The local
    cultural relics administration bureau should be informed. If the relics is precious, the local relics
    administration bureau should report to the provincial cultural relics bureau for required treatment.

l The qualification of the excavation institute and team leaders should be reviewed and certified by the
    State Relics Administration Bureau.

l Funding for cultural relics exploration and excavation under investment projects should be provided by
    the project proponents.

Management system for cultural relics. China has in operation a multi-level management organization for
the exploration, restoration and protection of cultural relics. This project expanded the system which
involves several lines of institutions:

l Central administration. This involves the State Planning And Development Commission, State
    Cultural Relics Administration Bureau. They reviewed and approved the project plan and design for
    cultural relics exploration and protection.

l Local administration. This involves provincial and county cultural relics administration bureaus. They
    guided, organized and supervised the actual implementation of the approved plans in their own
    jurisdiction. They also participated in the exploration, preservation and protection work.




                                                     - 70 -

l Technical teams. There are two tiers of experts working on the project. The first tier are the national
    and provincial research institutes. They include the Chinese History Museum, Zhengzhou University,
    Zhongshan University, Wuhan University, Henan Relics Research Institute, Shanxi Cultural Relics
    Research Institute, Henan Ancient Architecture Research Institute, Chinese Geologic University, and
    People's Liberation Arm Measurement College. The second tier are the municipal and county research
    institutes and archaeological teams.

YRWHDCRO signed a contract with Henan Cultural Relics Administration Bureau for the detailed design
and implementation of the cultural relics protection work. The bureau established a leading group
consisting members from all relevant organizations. They also established several archaeological teams.
For each identified site, the bureau established specific excavation teams under an appointed team leader.
Sites of significance were treated as separate projects and the bureau established separate teams for each.
The participation of national experts of the many different disciplines have optimized the excavation
design, provided critical advice during excavation, restoration and maximized research values of the
cultural properties.

Planning for cultural relics protection. Henan Cultural Relics Protection Bureau worked with RPDI who
was the chief designer of the project, and developed the project operational procedure in line with national
laws, policies, regulations and working procedure. Cultural relics preservation and protection was well
incorporated into the different phases of the resettlement planning and design.

Every excavation site got approval and certificate from the State Relics Administration Bureau. Besides
conducting review on

Given the cultural significance of the project area and the project impact, survey, planning and design work
on cultural relics exploration and protection started in 1982 when the State Relics Administration Bureau
instructed Henan and Shanxi Provincial Cultural Relics Bureaus to start exploration and inventory work in
the reservoir area. Both national and local expert teams were mobilized for this large-scale inventory work.
Over 100 national and local specialists participated in this work. The investigations began with the layout
of the civil work to define the scope and schedule of the investigation. The expert teams researched related
historical documents, local records, archaeological history and conducted interviews with local people,
particularly with old people as well as field survey. A detailed record was kept with mapping on the
location, scope, status, age and culture of the relics, ancient tombs, ground ancient architecture and ancient
inscriptions. While archaeological work continued during this period, three large scale investigations were
conducted. The findings were presented in special reports, with all site locations mapped, classified for
significance in line with local policy and a budget were produced. This continued into the late 1980's and
the inventory was incorporated into the project preliminary technical design for inundation treatment and
resettlement plan in 1991.

The inventory identified 180 sites of cultural significance. This includes 129 underground sites, covering
3,270,000 m2 from the Neolithic Age to Song Dynasty, and 40 ground sites covering an area of 2,070,000
m2 from Mesolithic Age to Song Dynasty. The local panel of experts reviewed the inventory data, field
reports and recommended drilling exploration to cover 3,265,800 m2 of the area and site excavation in
327,000 m2 of the area. Different treatment approach was adopted to the ground relics according to
classification of national standards. This includes complete relocation, partial relocation, modeling and
treatment of the unearthed cultural relics as well as documentation and follow-up study of the underground
findings. These were all included in the detailed design. The Ministry of Water Resources and State
Planning Commission reviewed and approved the project preliminary technical design in 1993, including


                                                      - 71 -

the strategy and action plans for cultural relics exploration, excavation and protection. This preliminary
design was later updated with detailed design for each phase of the resettlement program.

Implementation of protection measures. Main activities planned include excavation of underground sites,
treatment, documentation and follow-up study of unearthed relics, treatment of ground cultural relics
including relocation, modeling, etc.

Large scale excavation started in September 1994 when the dam construction started. While expert
institutes from Henan and Shanxi provinces took the lead in the field work, experts from all over the
country were mobilized, including Chinese History Museum, Northwestern University, Zhongshan
University, Chinese Science University, Beijing Normal University, Geological Institute of Chinese Science
Academy, Ancient Invertebrate and Human Being Research Institute, Biology Research Institute, and
Archaeological Institute of Chinese Social Science Academy. This is the also the first project where
multi-disciplinary approach was adopted for exploration of cultural relics in investment projects. The
experts participating in the exploration are of field archaeology, science archaeology, environment
archaeology, animal archaeology, plant archaeology, history, geology and paleoanthropology, ancient
biology, ancient architecture etc.

In the reservoir area, the main ground relics include grottoes, steles, ancient plank roads, temples, houses,
bridges and city gates from the many dynasties in the past 2000 years. The main protection method was to
investigate and describe the relics by word, graph, picture and video. Valuable relics were relocated and
reconstructed. All planned protective and preservation activities were completed.

YRWHDCRO and Henan Cultural Relics Research Institute published "Archaeology Reports on Cultural
Relics in The Area of Xiaolangdi Reservoir", systematically documenting the findings and research of the
unearthed cultural relics. Various research and studies were produced and published in professional
journals.

Major Activities and Accomplishments in Xiaolangdi Reservoir Cultural Property Protection

 Activities             Henan                                    Shanxi
 Unearth                  l 35 Yangshao cultural relic sites       l Yangshao Culture and Miaodigou
 underground relics          (Mesolithic Age): Bancun,                Phase II:Xiaozhao relic site,
                             Changquan, Huailin, Juanzi,              Ningjiapo relic site, pottery kilns in
                             Xiwo, Zhuoziping, Baigou,                Sanjiagou, Nanbao, Xiabo, Xiama,
                             Taijian, Huangpo, Maluo,                 Dongguan, Liuzhuang, Wufujian,
                             Mahe, Yangjia, Yanghu,                   Xihetou, Xizhai, Shaping, Longyan,
                             Zhaigen, Yandong, Zhouli,                Diantou, Beibaotou, Hexi, Ningjiapo
                             Qinghe, Qiaogou, etc.                 l Longshan Culture:Dongzhai
                          l 12 Longshan cultural relic sites       l East Dong and Han Dynasty:Shangbo
                          l Shang Dynasty:Jiaodui relic site          relic site, Dongtan, Xunguduo, Guli
                          l Late Tang Dynasty:Yong Tomb            l Erligang City site of Shang Dynasty
                          l Han, Tang and Song                     l Late Banpo cultural relic
                             dynasties:Xicun                          site:Southern Fortress Commercial
                          l Han Dynasty:Yangdong storage              City, Western Fortress relic site,
                             relics                                   Xigou relic site and Xiaodui relic site
                          l Hangu Fortress of Han Dynasty          l Tang and Song dynasties:Longyan
                             in Xin'an                                relic site



                                                      - 72 -

                       l Porcelain kilns in Xin'an               l East Zhou's tombs:Xiguan,
                       l 13 tombs of Tang and Han                  Xinzhuang, Shangbo City
                          dynasties                              l Tombs:Zhaili
                       l 1 city site of Dongzhou Period          l Calligraphies on Yellow River
                       l Ancient tombs in Liangzhuan,              navigation of Han, Tang, Song and
                          Cangtou, etc.                            Ming dynasties
                                                                 l Ximiaopu relic site of Xiaozhao
                                                                   Village of Gucheng Township
Remove and           Remove and protect the entire Xiwo          l Investigate, map and remove the
restore the ground   Grottoes in Xin'an and the Tang               temple of Ming and Qing dynasties:
relics               Emperor Temple in Jiyuan                      remove and restore the Guan Emperor
                                                                   Temple
Survey the ground    Map, remove and reconstruct                 l Map, remove and reconstruct 18
ancient residences   Xianghu residences, Lu Family's               mansions of Ming and Qing dynasties
and buildings        mansion and Huayan                            with 129 rooms at the five sites of Xi
                     Temple in Mianchi                             Jinbang, Li Xuezhong, Liu Wenqing,
                                                                   Wen Yugen and Zhang Yinlin
Survey, map and      Collection of Lu's stone inscriptions       l Map and partially remove 80
remove the ground                                                  epigraphies of Ming and Qing
stone inscriptions                                                 dynasties
and wood roads
Survey, map and      Investigate about 2,000 meters of           l Survey, map and photograph 5,000
remove the ground    ancient wood roads in the Yellow               meters of Han and Tang dynasties'
ancient relic sites  Rive's Balihutong and Tang                     wood roads, and model made for part
                     Dynasty's Yulin City, and study the            of them.
                     Yellow River's navigation

Budget and financing. The total budget for cultural relics preservation and protection was estimated at
35.26 million yuan. This budget was reviewed and approved by the State Planning Commission.




                                                  - 73 -

Additional Annex 17. Post-resettlement Assistance

The Chinese government has adopted a development strategy for implementing reservoir resettlement.
Post-resettlement support in livelihood development is one of the key aspects of this strategy in sustainable
livelihood development. This support mechanism in reflected in the following aspects,

Livelihood Support Program. Following local policy and the Credit Agreement with IDA, the
government has established a post-resettlement support fund to finance post-resettlement livelihood
programs. The government stipulates that a fund will be created at 250-400 yuan per resettler per year out
of the power sales from the project to support post-resettlement activities. The support period is generally
expected to be 10 years after relocation. In Xiaolangdi Project, the State Council has ruled that the support
fund will be 300 yuan per resettler per for 10 years. The total support fund is expected to be 600 million
yuan for the next 10 years. Both Henan and Shanxi Provinces have developed livelihood development
programs in line with this fund. By the end of 2002, the Xiaolangdi Multi-purpose project has contributed
29.91 million yuan to the post-resettlement support fund, including 23.58 million for Henan Province and
6.33 million for Shanxi Province. These funds are mainly used to support livelihood development activities
and vulnerable groups.

Social and Extension Support System. The government social support and extension systems in the host
areas started to serve the resettler villages once they completed their relocation. The government support
systems include social welfare, health, education, science and agriculture extension services. These
services have become available to the resettlers as soon as they moved into the host areas and have played
an important role in their livelihood reestablishment and development.

Organization. While local governments provide the general social and extension support services as their
routine functions, the project resettlement offices at provincial and county level will be maintained to
manage and supervise the implementation of the post-resettlement livelihood programs. The Resettlement
Bureau of MWR will continue its guiding and supervising function for the post-resettlement livelihood
development activities while Henan and Shanxi Provincial Resettlement Offices will continue to assign staff
to manage and supervise the post-resettlement livelihood activities. The project county resettlement offices
will be maintained in most counties, particularly those with large number of resettlers, to implement and
manage the post-resettlement resettlement activities, though the staffing may be scaled down due to the
reduced workload.




                                                      - 74 -

- 75 -

