Document of
The- World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12527-CRA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
XIAOLANGDI RESETTIE4ENT PROJECT
MARCH 25, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Th is doacnent has a restridted distdbution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wthout World Bank authorization.



ClRRENCY EQUIVALENTS 11
(As of January 1, 1994)
Currency Uit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00         =  Y 8.70
Y100          =  $0.115
FISCAL YEAR
Jawuary 1 to December 31
WEGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 klometer (km)        =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =  15 mu
i ton (t)              =  1,000 kg =  2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)        =  2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CIECC      - China nternational Engineering Consulting Company
CMIEC    - China Machinery Import and Export Company
CNTIC    - China National Technical Import Corporation
COE        - County-Owned Enterprise
CRO        - County Resetdement Office
CYJV       - Canadian Yellow River Joint Venture
EIA        - Environmental Impact Assessment
EMO        - Environmental Management Office
EL         - Elevation Level
ERR        - Economic Rate of Return
FRR        - Financial Rate of Return
FSL        - Full Supply Level
GOC        - Government of China
GPDIWH  - General Planning and Design Institute of Water and Hydropower
GWh        - Gigawatt-hour
HPG        - Henan Provincial Government
ITrC       - International Tendering Company
kWh        - Kilowatt-hour
M&I        - Municpal and Industrial
MW         - Megawatt
1I This project was appraised in October/November 1993 when the exchange rate was $1 = Y 5.7. All
cost and fincing have been recalculated at the rate of $1 = Y 8.7, effective January 1, 1994.
Economic and financial analysis is based on original appraisal paramers. rne devaluation would
improve economic and financial results to some extent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MWR        - Ministry of Water Resources
MWRRO - MWR Resetdement Office
PRO        - Provincial Resettlement Office
RLO        - Resetdement Liaison Office
RPDI       - Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute (of YRCC)
SPC        - State Planning Commission
TVE        - Township and Village Enterprise
XEC        - Xlaolangdi Engineering Corporation
YRCC       - Yellow River Conservancy Commission
YRCCRO - YRCC Resetdtement Office
YRWVIIDC - Yellow River Water and Hydroelectric Development Corporation
This document has a restricted dishnbution and may be used by recipients only in the pufanan  of their
lofficial duties Its contnts may not oterwise be disclosed without Wortd Bank authorzation.



CINA
XIAOLANGDI RESETtEMENT PROJECT
CREDrr AND PRojEcT SummARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Bendiclary:       Yellow River Conservancy Commission
Amount:           SDR 79.9 million ($110 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 35 years' maturity
Objectives and
Description:      The major goal of the project is to restore and improve the
livelihoods of 154,000 resettlern and 300,000 host people affected by
construction and operation of the Xiaolangdi multipurpose dam, and
to minimize the adverse effects of their social adjustment to their
new environments.
The project comprises four major components: (a) housing and
irasucture  development-this component will consist of
constructing all infrastructure including housing for 276 villages and
10 towns for the resettlers.  Host communities will receive
substantial  infrastructure  improvements;  (b)  transfer  of
resettlers-this component makes special provisions for transfer of
all salvageable materials and personal belongings, factory machinery
and other goods from the present to the new sites. The transport
will be contracted to local truclkng companies that will move the
goods at an appropriate time; (c) livelihood development-for
agricudural livelihood reestablishment, 11,100 ha of land will be
developed, of which about 7,000 ha will be irrigated and the rest
will be dryland. A total of 252 existing small industries and mines
will be relocated and reconstructed and the workers will move with
these industries. Eighty-four new county, township and village
industries wiU be established. These new industies will create
20,500 new industrial jobs to absorb those switching from
agriculture registration to nonagriculture; and (d) aplanning, design,
monitoring and resetlement management training component.



Benefits and
Risks:            At full development, the project is expected to expand the irgated
and dryland farming area by 11,100 ha. The project would benefit
about 0.5 million people, and create about 75,220 full-time jobs and
about 37,400 part-time jobs with significant contributions toward
incrsing incomes of resettlers. The economic rate of return for the
overall project is estimated to be about 32 percent. A resettlement
project of this magnitude faces a range of potential risks including:
(a) delays in implementation of the resetdement site development or
industral development as a result of delays in counterpart funds;
(b) the resettlement cost estimate could vary considerably over the
period of implementation; and (c) some of the sites selected,
especially the smaller ones, may not prove viable during the detailed
implemenitation phase.
Delays in funding of resetdement sites or factories cannot be
tolerated since delays in resetdement will delay the entire dam
coustruction, which would be extremely costly to the government.
The government has agreed to have in place a revolving fund for
financing of possible annual delays in funding to overcome shortages
from any source.  In addition, to anticipate cost increases,
government is indexing all costs to an acc-ptable index to determi e
costs during construction. Govermment will budget according to t .-
indexed costs. To overcome the possible lack of viability of some
sites, additional sites have already been studied and will be planned
as safety nets.



Fstimated Costs                                  Loa    Foreign  Total
-----($ miion)  -
Planning & Design               7.1       3.4   10.5
Infrastructure and Housing    186.9      48.8  235.7
Transfer of Resettlers          6.0       -      6.0
Lilidvm ent
Agicultre Development
Wengmengtan Irrigated Agriculture 27.6  14.1   41.7
Houhe Dam and Irrigation       9.2       4.6   13.8
Downstream Development         1.8       -      1.8
Agricultural Support           8.1       -      8.1
Industrial Development         90.7      53.3  144.0
Monitoring                      5.4       1.7    7.1
Subtotal                    342i      I252   468.
Environmental Management Plan    2.7        0.8    3.5
Base Cost                   345.5     126.7  472.2
Physical Contingency            23.8        8.6   32.4
Price Contingency               48.9       17.8   66.7
Totl Proiect C /la          418.2     151   571.3
Fhandng "7an:   Central Government               322.3      37.6  359.9
Provincial Governments            0.2      0.1    0.3
Enterprises                      27.7     20.2   47.9
People's Construction Bank of China  27.7  25.5   53.2
IDA                             40.3      69.7  110.0
T1a                         418.2     .J5      71.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
D)A EY                  19     1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001
-     -($ miiffion)        __
Annual                     15    15    25       30    15       7      3
Cumulative                 15    30    55    85    100   107    110
Poverty Category:      Not applicable
Economic Rate of Return: 32 percent
la Proect is exempt from taxes and duties.



CONTENTS
I  Baclcgiouuiid  ~     ~~. .  #           . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .
A.  Introductio  ....... ....... ....          . ..... ... *               1
B. -Project Origin and Objectives . .... .. .. . .. .. .                   1
C.              intChina ....................                              3
D.  Rationale for Bank Gromp Involvement .................                 5
2   Th~ePirojed Areas . .. ... .. .. .. . .............                        6
A.  Location of1 he             andHttle   reand..      st. re..           6
B.   Physica, Demogrphic and Social CondWons                               6
C.   Agriclture, WaterRs  3urcesandlrrigti ..                              6
D.  Reoent Agicultu   Development ........ .. .              ...7 
E.   I ie Nonagricultural Sectors ..............                           8
F.   Rurad Incomes and Poverty . ............ ....                         9
G.  Inundation Impact ..............................                       9
H.Rsttein Strategy .. . .. . .... . .. .....              ..... O..       12
A.  P'roject Ovarview . ....... .   . ...... . . .  .. .. ......  .15
E.   Pgroject Description ........... . . ........... .S
C.   De      Fea                      ....................   ..           15
D. Sus of Prparation.... . . . . . ..25
T    report is based on the findings of an appraisl mission in October 1993. Members
of the appraisal team included D. Gunaratnam (mission leader, IDA), rang Ping, ZhMang
Weizen, Zhang Chaohua, Z. C. Lin, S. Feson, M. Buitela, and 0. Litens
(consultants). Others involved in the prepartion and preappraisal were J. M. Voegele,
A. Ghani, S. Gulyani (IDA), Li Qun (Consultant). Peer reviewers comprised
W. Partridge, C. Diewald, B. Trembath, and M. Cernea. The Division Chief is Joseph
Goldberg and the Acing Department Director is Zafer Ecevit.



- vi -
E.   Popular Participation and Compensation .................    25
F.   ImplementationSchedule      ...                 ....           28
0.  Cost Estimates ........................29
H.  Financing   ......... ......                                    30
I.   Procurement .......................                            30
J.   Disbursement ..     .       ............. .... .               33
K    Acwmts andAudits . ......................    35
L.   Environmental Imnpact .......                       .35
4   Ognand......n...e.......                               ...          37
A.  Agencies Participating in Resetdement Implementation...         37
B.  Inplementation Management and Responsibilitis.                  41
C. Financial Control                    ....  42
D. Supervsion and Monitoring            .. .42
E. Support Services forResetders        . . .44
F.  Safety Nets/Support Mechanisms                  .               46
5   Eon       Aspects ofLivellhoodDevelopment ....._                    47
A.  Agriculturl LivelihoodDevelopment         ....                  47
B.  IndustraLivelihood Development           .    .    . .49
C.  Tota Income Development.                     ...                51
D. lir,jectRisks ......52
6 AgrmentandRec,mmendaion .                  ..........  54
ANNEFs
1.  Comparison of Alternatives to the Xiaolangdi Poject .57
2.  ResettlementPolicy and Legal Framework   .58
3.  Inundation Imnpacts....                           ..     ...        62
4.  CompensationStandards andEntitlement..       ..                     73
5.  Resettlement Strategies, Site Selection, and Alternatives ..........    82
6.  Cost and Financing Tables ............................    92
7.  Housing Conditions Before and After Resetllement .107
8. Income Analysis             ..110
9. Financial and Economic Analysis .142
10. Social Adjustment Support Services           .....                 158
11. Organization Arrangements        ..166
12. Procurement Arangements.                                           171
13. Project Schedule/Disbursement Schedule/Supervision Schedule        174
14. Resettlement Agreements and Contracts .180
15. Consultant Services and Tainng    ....      .183
16. Environmental Assessment Summary........                           195
17. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Projec. File .. ......   208



TAlu IN TEXr
3.1  Distribution of Population by Receiving Area   .................    16
3.2  Proposed Resetment Staffing ......8....................             i
3.3  Labor Force Pre- and Post-Resettlement ........ ..   ..........    22
3.4  Number of Enterprises and New Jobs for Resettlers Shifting to Industry  23
3.5  Entexprises Classified by Industry  ........................    23
3.6  Compensatica Disbursed to Households          .    .     . .        27
3.7  Estimates of Population to be Resettled .....................    28
3.8  Project Cost Summary .......      ........................          31
3.9  Project Financing ................... ..            .     .         32
3. 10 Procurement Afrangements ...................                       34
5.1  Resettler Farmed Areas ...............................    47
5.2  Family income Pre- and Post-Resetdement for Resetlers and Hosts ...  53
BoxEs IN TEXT
1.  Resetdement Criteria for the Xiaolangdi Project   .  .13
MArs
1.  Xiaolan,di Resettlement Site Location (IBRD 25518)
2.  Resettlement Sites and Industr  Income (IBRD 25552)
3.  Resettement Sites and Agriculht and Industral Income (IBRD 25553)
4.  Resetdement Sites and Population Density (IBRD 25554)



1. BACKGROUJND
A. rmtoDuCrON
1.1        The Government of China (GOC) hs requested IDA assistance in financing
the resettement and reestlishment of livelihoods of about 154,000 people now living in
the reservoir area of the proposed Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam I/ on the Yellow River
in Henan Province. The projet aims to achieve the complete social and economic
reestablishment of the dislocated population, on a viable productive basis, through the
creation of new hidustrial, agricultural and service sector employment and activities. The
affected population, including an additional 300,000 in host areas, will not only maintain
their current standard of living, but will also dectly share in project benefits. The
objectives of the project are to (a) provide for the transfer and housing of the reseter
population; (b) provide sufficient income-earning opportnities for the resettled runl
population through the development of two irigation schemes; (c) maintain the eistng
8,250 employment oppounities in the nonagncultural sectors and create about 20,500 new
jobs through relocation and expansion of factories, mines and other local entepises; and
(d) reestablish an infstructure apprpriate to the increasing demand in the host areas.
1.2        The following sections provide backgrund information on the Xiaolangdi
Multipurpose Dam project and a summary of previous resettlement exerience in Chia.
B. PnoJr ORIGIND OaECnVEs
1.3        The Yellow River is the second-longest water course in China and traverses
nine provinces. The catchment area accounts for 7 percent of China's total land area and
supports the agriculture of 130 million people on a cultivated area of 12.7 million hecae
(13 percent of the total cultivated area of China). Some of the most fertile and densely
poplated lands (2 million ha) in China are in the lower reaches of the Yellow River,
mainly in Henan and Shandong Provinces. Floods in the lower reaches have brought
severe destuction to farmlands and cities, killing thousands of people and causing billions
of dollars of damage. From about 600 BC to date, the river burst dimes 1,590 times,
changed its course 26 times, and affected an area of 250,000 square kilometers (kin 
the provinces of Henan, Shandong, Anhui, Hebei and riangsu. At present, about 103
million people are at risk of severe flood damage and as many as 1 to 3 percent of the
poplation could be destroyed if there is a major flood. The flooding is exacerbated by
soil erosion in the mid-reach of the river. This has resulted in enormous quantities of
v     is dnm would be finced by an MBRD loan, as docxmentd in Report No. 12329-CHA



- 2 -
sediment (1.6 billion cubic meters-m3-per year) being washed into and transported by
the river, with about 25 percent being deposited in the lower reaches, causing the rivbed
to zise to about 3-10 meters (m) higher than the surrounding ground. Enormous efforts
in fighting floods have been made over several centunes by building up the levees in the
lower reaches. However, despite these efforts, floods breached the levees he out of
every four years until the 1950s.
1.4        Since 1955, the Government has made great strides in developing a master
plan for water resources, which includes 29 major dams for harnessing the Yellow River
for flood control, hydropower, irrigation, municipal and industral (M&I) water supply.
The master plan also proposes comprehensive soil conservation measures to reduce silt
flowing into the river. Seven major dams have been built across the river including, most
recently, Longyangxia (24 billion m3 reservoir).
1.5        The upper reaches of the river, which contribute 60 percent of the water
resources, are now fairly well regulated. However, for the lower reaches, the only dam
(Sanmenxia, constructed in 1957-60) has had to be modified to perform partial regulation
of flood waters to cope with large volumes of silt, which filled the reservoir area witbin
two years after its completion. The lower reaches of the Yellow River are currntly
protected only by the flood levees that have to be raised every 10 years at a cost of about
$2 billion each time and have to be maintained every year at a cost of $70 milLion. The
levees, at present, do. at provide adequate protecdon for the 100 million people who live
below them, for some la v cities (Zhengzhou, Kaifeng, Xinxiang, Jinan, Heze, Liachang,
Dezhou, and lining), and for vital industries like the Shengli and Zhongyuan oilfleds,
which produce about one third of the crude oil of China. In addition, because of the lack
of regulation of water in the lower reaches, adequate irrgation water is available only once
every three years, as against possible perennial irrigation for about 2.0 million ha, and
water supply for cities (Beijing, Tianjin, Qingdao, Zhengzhou, Kaifeng, etc.) and for
industries is very limited. Several cities such as Qingdao have had to shut down industres
several hours every day because of a lack of water. As part of a long-term strategy to
reduce the serious and increasing flood risk in the lower reaches of the Yellow River,
GOC has embarked on an ambitious sediment management and flood control progrmn in
the Yellow River Basin. As a centerpiece of that program, the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose
Project will provide flood and ice-jam protection to 103 million people, and will prevent
the further silting up of the lower reaches of the river for at least the next 20 years.
Creation of the 130 km long reservoir behind the dam requires the relocato of about
171,000 people during the next eight years.
1.6        The total costs of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Proect including resetlement
are estimated at $2,866 million, of which resettlement will account for nearly one fifth or
$571.3 million. Realizing the tremendous impact such large-scale relocation has on the
directly and indirectly affected individuals, and also on the economy in the entire region,
the government has designed the resettlement and rehabilitadon program as a separate
project.



-3
1.7         Alternatives. During the last three decades, a range of proposals has been
put forward to reduce the hazards of fiooding ani reduce sediment deposition along the
lower reaches of the Yellow River. Seven altematives were considered in detail, but each
alternative possesses significant shortcomings, and involves a great deal more resettlement
(300,000 to 950,000 people) than does the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam. A listing of
these alternatives and estimates of their resetflement impacts are provided in A=   1.
C. RESE  IN CUNA
1.8        Past Experience. In the mid-1980s, GOC reported that, of over 10 million
people previously subject to involuntary relocation due to reservoir development, at least
cne third still lived in poverty awaiting successfud settlement. That estimate applied only
to those who had been moved, not to the host population forced to share their existing land
and other rewources with the relocatees. A study conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture
estimated that 46 percent of the 1.12 million involuntarily resettled surveyed had yet to be
satisfactorily resettled. These figures clearly indicate that people previously forced to
relocate were at great risk of poverty. In the past, financial allccations were insufficient
in a large number of cases. Compensation payments set in the early 1980s ofte. omitted
provision for inflation. Most of these problems resulted from inadequate resetdement
planning and the 'nability of the government to provide the relocatees with an adequate
income-earning potential. The fundamental problem with involuntary resettlement,
particularly before the mid-1980s, had been the notion that those displaced were making
an obligatory contnbution to national welfare and that, therefore, no extraordiary
measures were needed to restore their livelihoods.
1.9        Recent Experience. This attitude has changed dramaticaly in recent years.
Problems in large projects such ac Danjiangkou, Sanmenxia and Dongpinghu are well
recognized by the Government, which has been coping with periodic resetdtement
demonstrations and an exodus from the original host areas back to the reservoir zones.
The Govemment therefore established in 1986 a central resettlement office in the Ministry
of Water Resources (MWR) to undertake rehabilitation programs for all resetdement sites
where people have been disadvantaged, and to develop new standards, laws and reguations
for new resettlement sites. The MWR Resettlement Office (MWRRO) embarked on a
major rehabilitation program of 5 million resettlers in 46 sites who have been
disadvantaged through resettlement since the late 1950s. From 1986 to 1993, about $420
million (Y 1,900 million) k3s been spent to rehabilitate infrastructure, develop township
and vilage industry and provide for some direct food assistance in these 46 sites. Many
of these programs have been extremely successful-for example, for the Danjiangkou
resetdement, which involved 383,000 people, after rehabilitation programs started in 1986,
incomes per capita rose and now far exceed the resettlers' original real incomes before
resettlement and even exceed the incomes of the hosts by as much as 10 percent. The
numbers of people disadvantaged has declined by as much as 55 percent. The Govenmment
respornded to these problems and pressures through a consistent effort during the 1980s to
develop and implement improved resettlemant practices. A series of laws and regulations
now provides guidance for all types of resetdement projects. Taken together, the various



-4-
laws and regulations call for full protection of the resettled and much stronger support to
reservoir relocatees than heretofore (see para. 1.12 and Annex 2 .
1.10       Resettlement Review. A Bank review of resettlement experience in China
(China: Involuntary Resettlement, Report No. 11641-CHA, June 1993) has recently been
completed. In addition, there has been a more detailed review of resettlement in Bank
Group projects, which is being finalized. The findings of both studies can be sumriarized
as follows: (a) Chinese national and provincial law and regulations now substantially meet
the requirements of both the Bank's operational directive on resettlement and the OECD
resetdement guidelines. The applicable laws and regulations for such projects call for full
protection of resettlers and provide administrative and compensation mechanisms to
facilitate successful resettlement; (b) the record on recent projects indicates hat the
Chinese authorities now treat resettlement as a long-tenn process requiring sustained
attention even up to 5 to 10 years after physical resettlement activities have been
completed; and (c) improving or maintaining the- standard of living of affected people is
clearly accepted as a key objective in resettlement plans. For example, in the Shuikou
Hydroelectric Projects I and I1 (Loans 2775-CHA and 3515-CHA) resettler incomes have
exceeded their original incomes in real terms within the first year of resettlement. Even
under the Xiaolangdi Dam-site construction area resettlement that started in August 1992,
the income levels of about 2,000 people resettled in four villages in 1992 have exceeded
their previous incomes by 10 percent to as much as 60 percent, by October 1993.
1.11       On the whole, there is unanimity among all analysts of resettlement in China
that the central government has demonstrated a high degree of commitment to successful
resettlement. Policies wi,th clear developmental objectives have been formulated,
organizational responsibilities have been clearly aelineated, increasing amounts of resources
have been allocated, and programs for long-term training on resetdement have been
initiated.
1.12       Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Group Operations. Out of the 38
projects with resetdement requirements now in the Bank Group portfolio, 14 have
aggregate resettlement requirements involving about 251,000 people. Only three of the
projects involve reservoir resettlement. Underestimation of costs in general and inflation
in particular have been recurring problems in Chinese projects. In the Bank-financed
Lubuge and Shuikou Hydroelectric Projects I and II (Loan 2775-CHA and Loan 3515-
CHA), resettlement cost ovenruns reached 100 percent. In the Daguangba Project (Loan
3412-CHA and Credit 2305-CHA) approved in FY92, the need for a 40 percent budget
increase has already become clear. However, the budget shortfalls have been rapidly
remedied within the year of shortfall. Chinese resettlement experts have also indicated that
diverting resources from resetflement to civil wor1 4 during the first three quaters of the
financial year, when money is slow coming in, has been comnon. However, they
indicated that regulations had been prepared in 1992 to ensure that funds marked for
resettlement were to be used only for the allocated purpose.
1.13       Policy and Legal Framework. A number of laws and egulatons have
been decreed to improve resetdement planning and implementation. The Regulation for



-5-
Land Requisition Compensation and Resettlement of Iarge and Medium Water
Conservancy and Hydroelectric Ptojects, issued by the State Council in Decree No. 74 in
May 1991, has some features of particular importance:
(a) resettlement shall make relocatees recover or surpass the existing living
levels through construction, resource exploitation, soil conservancy and
economic development of the reservoir region;
(b)  the state encourages and supports resettlement with development by means
of compensation and subsidy in the initial stage, and production support in
later stages;
(c)   families who lose their land completely can tansfer tfieir registration from
rural to urban registration (and hence become eligible for urban indul
employment, residency, and perquisites) as reviewed and approved by
provincial and county goveinments; and
(d)   if the compensation for land and resettlement calculated on the basis of the
regulation makes it difficult to meet needs, the resettlement subsidy may be
increased to do so.
D. RATIONAlE FOR BANK GROUP DMOLVBMT
1.14       This project represents one of the first large-scale resettlement efforts vwth
major Bank Group involvement thoughout the desig  phase. This involvement has
resulted in significant contributions to developing realistic project standards, i.e., cost
estmates now include price increases; resetdement costs are not merely based on
compensation costs of eisting inundated settements but on actual costs of development
of new areas; the govemment has now adopted a transparent way of agreeing on cash
compensation to resers, using siged contracts; the government has also adopted
compensation for those affeed idirectly-migrant workers, temporary workers, squaters,
etc.; grievance procedures are also more trapart. Bank involvement overl has
significantly raised the standards of resettlement planning and made govenment procedures
more transparent. By remaining involved through partial financing of the inplemenadon
of rettlement as a separate project, with supevson focused on resettlement as a disdnct
type of rural development activity, it is hoped to realize the achievement of completely
successful resettlement.



2. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. LOCATION OF TmE RESErrlE   ANm Hosr ARmAS
2.1        Regional Setting. The Xiaolangdi dan site is located on the Yellow River
in Henan Province, 40 km north of Luoyang City. The resevoir area for EL 275 extends
upstream for 130 kIn, to just below the existing Samenxia Dam. The total area to be
inundated is 272.3 lam2, including the existng water surface of the Yellow River. The
broader reservoir region includes three counties in Shaanxi Province and five counties in
Henan Province. Another five counties in Henan Province located downstream of
Xiaolangdi are planned as host areas. Maps 25518 and 25554 show the jursdictions
involved in the project.
2.2        Located on the eastern edge of the Loess Plateau, the project area features
slty soils and extreme erosion. In the project area, the loess soils are trapped between two
mountain ranges-the Wangwu and Zhongtiao range to the north and the Xiaoshan and
XMonger range to the south of the Yellow River. Farming conditions are very favorable
in the loess areas but poor in the mountains. Thus, population densities are high in loess
areas such as Mengjin, Pinglu and Shanxian, while population and cultivation densities are
very low in the other areas.
B. PRwsCAL, DmoGRAxmc AN SOCAL CON}DONS
2.3         The reservoir region of eight affected counties had a 1992 population of
2.8 million and an annual population growth rate of 1 percent for the period 1982-92. The
population density has reached 264 persons/lm2. About one third of the population is
14 years of age and under, the 15-65 age group accounts for 63 percent, while the 65-and-
over group is 4 percent. The malelfemale ratio is about 52/48. The urban/rrln ratio
varies considerably from 25175 in Yuanqu county to 4/96 in Xlaxian county. Oval,
however, the region is still close to 90 percent rural. The average household size is 4.4
persons with a labor force rato of 44 percent. Eighty percent of the regional population
are literate. Ten percent have a senior high school education or beyond, while 30 percent
have junior high school and 40 percent primary school. Ethnically, Henan's affected
counties are almost exclusively Han (99.6 percent), with a few Hui (7,315) and Uygur
(594) who are socially fully integrated with Hans as indicated in the 1990 oensus survey.
C. AGRICULi, WATER RESO]RCES AND IhURGATION
2.4        Henan province, where most of the resetted population lives, is primarily
a grain-producing area and the affected counties are somewhat poorer on average due to
poor soil conditions in mountainous parts and a general lack of precipitation. Precipitation



-7 -
in the region averages 650 mm/year, but over a 10-year period will vary between 400-
1,000 mm. The annual rainfall is quite variable with about 3-in-10 years considered dry
and about 1-in-10 years considered overly wet. About 64 percent of the total annual
precipitation falls in the summer months between the beginning of June and the end of
September. The mean annual rainfall, in combination with annual potential evaporation
(about 1,950 mm), indicates a need for irrigation to realize full crop yields. Soils of the
reservoir area are of two main groups depending on their location north or south of the
Yellow River. Soils on the north bank are loess-type soils, having good drainage and
medium texture. Soils on the south bank are reddish clays, shallow in many places with
impeded drainage in a few locations. Farmland accounts for 46 percent of the inundation
zone, and 44 percent of the total cultivated area is irrigated. The annual crop intensity is
about 150 percent. Per capita landholdings are about 1.5 mu (0.1 ha), and the average
family size is 4.4 persons.
D. RECENr AGRICuLTuRAL DEvLOpMENT
2.5         Crop agnculture accounts for about 70 percent of total agricultural output,
with animal husbandry at 15 percent being the next most important contributor to output.
Wheat is the most important crop (70 percent cropping intensity, followed by maize at
25 percent). Small areas of cash crops are grown, mainly close to the banks of the Yellow
River and some tributaries. The most important cash crops are tobacco and cotton (both
with 5 percent of the cropped area), apple, pear and persimmon being the important
pemanent crops. Irrigation is used on about 29 percent of the total cultivatable area of
the reservoir counties, most of which is located in the flat valley bottoms close to the
Yellow River. In some upland areas, motorized deep tubewells provide irrigation water,
although these are limited. In other limited areas, highland reservoirs feed gravity
irrigation schemes, which have an extensive network of lined main and secondary canals
and aqueducts. Crop agriculture in the inundation zone is similar to that of the larger
reservoir county area. There is a higher proportion of irrigated land in the inundation
zone, for topographical reasons.
2.6         Pigs are the most important livestock raised by farmers, followed by cattle.
The pig population is approximately 1 head per family, while about 1 head of catde is
owned for every 1.5 families. The latter are used extensively for animal traction. Sideline
activities are important in some locations, and mining also contributes to household
incomes, particularly in Xnan and Jiyuan counties in Henan Province.
2.7         Sideline actdvities in the reservoir area can be classified into five main
groups of activities: (a) small animal production (poultry, sheep, goats, pigs and rabbits);
(b) food proce-.sing (noodle manufacturing, rice milling and oil extraction); (c) local
infrastructure and construction (brick manufacturing, quarrying and construction); (d) local
and shori-haul transportation; (e) miscellaneous activities (sewing, straw products
manufactuing, gathering of herbs).



-8 -
E. THE NONAGRICULTURAL SECrORS
2.8         Nonagricultural sectors are defined  as industry  (which includes
manufacturing and mining) and tertiary activities (construction, transport and
communications, commerce and public administration and institutions). These enterprises
are either owned at the state level (and operated by county, municipal or provincial
agencies) or at the township and village levels (rural enterprises). The output of village
enterprises is usually included in the primary agricultural sector as a sideline, despite the
fact that many of these enterprises are quite large.
2.9         The number of industrial .aborers in state and township enterprises in the
entire inundation zone region is 103,644. Another. 11,562 are employed in tertiary
activities. Most of the industry and commerce is centered in or near the county seats.
These centers have populations between 20,000 and 80,000 persons, of which roughly
50 percent are registered as nonagricultural.  There is relatively little industry or
commerciat activity within the inundation zone because no major towns or cities are
located along the Yellow River in this region. One exception is the town of Gucheng in
Yuanqu county. The largest employer is a paper mill and numerous people are employed
in local industry (cotton ginning, warehousing, retailing, copper mining, etc.). Eight
factories and 85 mines are located in the inundation zone below elevation (EL) 275,
providing employment for 15,000 workers. The majonty of these are rural enterprises.
In addition, there are numerous small-scale village enterprises, particularly mines, quarries,
kilns, construction and transport businesses. The nonagricultural population below EL 275
is reported to be 14,800, representing only 9.8 percent of the total population. However,
the availability of mining opportunities to agricultural laborers means that close to 25,000
persons derive full-time livelihoods from nonagricultural activities and many more earn
supplementary incomes.
2.10        In the inundation zone, which is predominantly agricultural, development
of nonagricultural enterprises faces a number of constraints, which must be considered in
the planning of nonagricultural employment for relocatees and hosts. The location of most
of this area is not linled by roads and subject to floods near the river. State-owned
enterprises face an historic lack of capital investment in counties that are not favored by
economic factors, quite remote from major domestic and international markets and with
historically few communications links to central and southern China; and where there is
relatively small market demand in the reservoir region. Lack of highly skilled labor and
certain management capabilities pose further constraints. Township and village industries
face similar problems such as lack of local technical expertise, lack of local managerial
skills, poor market links between regions and a lack of initial investment capital to male
high-quality products that can compete in regional markets. The tertiary sector has to cope
with a surplus of construction laborers with low productivity, poor transportation access
in rural areas, small regional market, as well as a lack of managerial and marketing skills.



-9-
F. RUAL INCOMES ANM POVERTY
2.11       Per capita net incomes of the rural population of the inundation zone in 1993
averaged Y 560, with a range between Y 413/capita in Mianchi to Y 900/capita in Yuanqu
(Shanxi). Basically, three representative scenarios can be denved of different icome
levels of the rural population: (1) some 10 percent of the rural households are able to
undertake nothing but agriculture, from which an annual per capita net income of about
Y 220 is gained; (2) about 80 percent earn a per capita net income of Y 476 from both
agricultural and some nonfarm activities; (3) the top 10 percent achieve an income of
Y 907, paly because of proceeds from farming, poultry and animal husbandry, partly
because each household has one member going fOr full-time employment in rural-town
enterprises. Typical rural household income structures from various sources, including
cropping, fruit, forestry, poultry and animd husbandry and nonagricultural activities, are
summarized in Annex 8.
2.12        The prevailing poverty in many of the project areas is due to a number of
factors including poor agricultual resource base, reiroteness, lack of off-farm employment
opportunities, vulnerability to frequent natural disasters and limited infrastructur such as
roads, communications, electricity and water supply systems. Despite relief programs,
lack of explicit programs to develop these areas has permitted this cycle of poverty to
persist. Floods, droughts, hailstorms and severe winter weather conditions also contribute
to their poverty. The project would provide fimds for specific productive activities
beneficial to both host and resetder populations, combined with necessary technical training
and marketing support.
G. INUN)A1ON IMACr
2.13        General. The Xiaolangdi reservoir wfll flood 173 villages, 11 government
towns, 252 industrial and mining enterprises, 250 commercial enterprises and other
institutions, 12 power stations, 267 irrigation pumps, 658 km of itrigation canals, 688 km
of roads and 548 km of communication lines (Annex 3).
2.14       Directly Affected Population. In the reservoir region, 5.11 percent of the
population will require relocation. Xinan county is severely affected, two counties
[Yuanqu (14 percent) and Jiyuan (13 percent)] are heavily affected, two counties suffer
average impact (Mianed and Mengjin), while three counties (Pinglu, Xaxian and
Shanxian) have an impct of less than 1 percent. The relocadon criterion for the reservoir
populaion is EL 275 m; thus, all those below this level are entitled to restlement
benefits. The total land area affected by inundadon (EL 275) has been established at
272 kI2. In 1991 and in the moving year, the reservoir population will be, respectively,
150,172 and 171,118. In addition, the construction zone population in the dam site area
is 9,944 people. Resettlement of this group has already started and is expected to be
completed by June 1994. This portion of the resettlement has not been included in the
project as most of the acdvities have been completed. In total, the population diredy
affected by the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project is 181,050. The total population directly



- 10-
affected and included in this project is 153,182 people.L/ The final group of 17,924
people would mostly move in the years 2010-2011, depending on long-rmn reservoir
operation characteristics (pam. 3.38), and their resettlement would be govemned by
standards at least as high as those of the present project.
2.15        The lndirectly affected population falls into four categories: (a) people
required to share farmland with the relocatees; (b) people losg farmland for river training
in the Wenmengtan scheme; (c) people affected by acquisition of host farmland for
residences, factories and roads; and (d) temporary workers who may lose employment
from relocation of industries and mines.
2.16        The resettlement plans propose to intensify agricultural production on some
153,215 mu (10,214 ha) of existing farmland in the host area. The host people will
receive monetary compensation and irngation schemes to offset the loss of income from
land acquisition for resetdement. Based on the average per capita landholding in the host
areas, and the fact that hosts will lose 0.4 mu/capita on average, the host population
affected in the moving year is estimated to be about 300,000 persons between 1994 and
2000. It should be noted that most host communities surveyed consider this process to be
an opportunity for long-awaited indusrialization, financed by compensation funds, and not
a burden. Surrounding jurisdictions have competitively offered themselves as host
communities, for this purpose.
2.17        The proposed river training works for the Wenmengtan scheme will require
9,000 mu of farmland. This will affect as many as 4,712 farmers in the moving year.
The reconstruction of inundated villages, towns, factories and roads will require requisition
of 26,073 mu of land, of which 80 percent is estimated to be farnland. Based on per
capita farmland in the receiving areas, the affected population in the moving year will be
roughly 19,610.
2.18        The existing factories in the inundated zone employ a total of 28,433
workers, of which 2,163 are permanent workers with nonagricultural registration, 18,083
are contract workers with agricultural registration and 8,075 are temporary workers with
agricultural registration. Most of the temporary workers are employed in rural enterprises
and obtain a major share of household income from this source. About 30 percent of these
temporary workers (5,118) are estimated to live above EL 275. They would temporarily
lose their source of employment when the enterprises are relocated. In total, the indirectly
affected population is estimated in the moving year to be 330,000, bringing the total
zffected population to 510,000.
2.19        land. The total land area that will be inundated by the reservoir is
approximately 244 knm2. The land lost by the project is summarized in Annex 3. The
cultivated land component, 46 percent of total inundation area, consists of irrigated land
(44 percent), dryland including slope land (47 percent) and perennial crops (9 percent).
1.    etotmbriswroudd    to 154,000peopletobezuetw be   1994 and20, ia  71,00
peop1e betwe  1994 and 2011.



- 11 -
Forests make up 10 percent of the inundated area, of which 79 percent is timber forest and
10 percent is fuel forest. Steeper slopes and grasslands comprise 25 percent ot the
inundated land and other land comprises 10 percent. Existing water surface constitutes the
remaining area.
2.20        Compensation for Land. Compensation is paid to reflect the loss of use
of the land rather than the loss of title (Annx 4!. There are two elements of the
compensation, with both based on the average annual agricultural output measured over
the preceding three years. Output is the total value of production disposed of at state
prices. Compensation of farmland is to be paid at three to four times average annual
output value and allowances to be paid at two to ftree times average annual output values.
The combined standard for land compensation is thus five to seven times the annual value
of land output. If there are specal circumstances, the combined stndard can be increased
to no more than eight times, if per capita relocatee land in each village is over 1 mu, 12
times if per capita land in each village is between 0.5 and i mu and 20 times if per capita
land in each village is below 0.5 mu. In the case of the Xiaolangdi project, the
compensation used is a seven times multiplier for the cultivated land in five counties, eight
times for Yuanqu and r,ian counties that are heavily affected and 10 times for Xinan that
is the most seriously affected. The compensation is paid not to the township that has lost
land but to the township where the relocation takes place. This is one reason why
townships and counties prefer to see resettement take place inside their boundaries. The
compensation funds are generally required to reestablish the production measures of the
relocatees. Whether the amount of compensation is adequate, thus, depends on the type
and cost of production measures sufficient and practical for a particular local situation.
2.21        Rousin.  Housing in the reservoir area consists of house and cave
dwellings. The total of cave dwellings that would be inundated is 4.59 million n2.
Villages are 3.97 million e2 (86.5 percent), small towns (5.8 percent) and enterprises and
institutions of small towns C7.7 prcent). Among villages, houses amount to 33.3 percent,
cave dwellings built with bricks or stones to 24.5 percent, and cave dwellings built with
only earth to 42.2 percent. The average area of cave dwellings is 26.4 i2 per capita. The
reconstruction cntenia for private houses proposed for Xiaolangdi are 17-20 nin per capita
for the main house and 5.5 e2 per capita for auxiliary structures for a total of 22.5 to
25.5 i2. For 1991, new house construction costs in the range of Y 110-130/i2 were used.
2.22        Other Factes. Annex 3 shows the inventory of educational, health and
cultual structures to be inundated, as well as the infrastructural facilities. As of 1992, 252
fictories and mines will be inundated by the project. Most of the mining investments
cannot be relocated; the remairing coal reserves will also be lost for further exploitation.
Some 109 minor historical relics have been identified for archeological scrutiny. Many
of hese sites require underground work. Based on the 1992 cost estimate reviewed by the
state; Y 14.26 million would be required to carry out a program of drilling, excavation and
removal activities, which would be covered under the project.



- 12 -
R. REsEnTEMENT STATEY
2.23        The strategy for resettling people affected by any large water project in
China is guided by seven key principles: (a) restoring and improving current income
levels; (b) ensuring adequate household grain production; (c) increasing net income per unit
of land; (d) increasing household income through nonfarm jobs; (e) transferring people
from agricultural to nonagricultural registration; (f) minimizing social stress; (g) ensuring
acceptable living standards (Annex 5).
2.24        The Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) has had extensive
experience with resettlement and is quite concemed about potential implementation
problems. The agency has strived to make the Xiaolangdi resettlement program meet the
highest Chinese and international standards. In particular, YRCC endorses the principle
of resettlement with development so that project-affected people would not only maintain
their current standard of living, but would also directly share in project benefits. The
Chinese laws and regulations pertaining to resettlement, combined with the World Bank
resettlement guidelines as set out in Operational Directive 4.30, have formed the basis of
specific criteria for the Xiaolangdi resetdement program. Seventeen resettlement criteria
have been developed by YRCC in conjunction with local government (Box 1).
2.25        In order to demonstrate that these criteria would be satisfied, and to meet
Bank Group requirements for project prepiaration, YRCC has undertaken a major effort in
detailed preproject planning and consultation with local agencies and commumities.
Detailed plans and designs have been developed with the project-affected communities in
order to secure formal agreements for land sharing, production investment and employment
schemes. Most resetder communities have been offered several host sites as options, and
have been asked to suggest others, and final plans reflect their choice. Village plans
include detailed mapping and costing. Also, YRCC has extended funding to local agencies
for the strengthening of their implementation capacity.
2.26        A key aspect of YRCC's approach has been to develop costs based on
development requirements, as well as cost estimates based on Ministry of Water Resources
(MWR) compensation standards.  This approach has been made possible by the
development of more detailed plans and feasibility discussions with local experts. This
work has indicated that other sources of funding in addition to state compensation were
necessary for the resettlement program to succeed in significantly improving income levels
of resettlers, and YRCC has now secured other financing to ensure adequate levels of
funding are available when required.
2.27        Resettlement feasibility planning for below EL 180 (i.e., for the years
1994-97) is completed and detailed village resetdement planning is under way.
Resettlement feasibility planning for EL 180-275 (for 1998-2011) is finished, but
altemnative scenarios still need investigation as contingency plans. Final fiancing
arrangements for resettement, particularly in the crtical counties of Xinan and Jiyuan,



- 13 -
Box 1: RESErnlEENT CIT IA FOR TIE XIAOLANGDI PROJEC
1.  The population subject to resettdement should not only maintain its currt standard of living but
it should also directly share in project benefits.
2.  The resettlent transition period should be minized and adequate support for both socia and
economic development should be provided during the trnusition perod.
3.  Resettlement should achieve the complete socid avd economic reestblishment of those
dislocated, on a viable productive basisJ through the creation of project-fiuded new industrial,
service sector and agWicultural employmeni activities.
4.  Insofar as changes of occupation are necessary, the replacement opportuities should properly
tecognize the social, communal, cultural, educational, and vocatinal ptofile of those affected,
and any changes in economic activities should be introduced on a voluntary basis.
5. Resettlement of the agricultural population should be land-based wherever possible.
6.  Land sharing with host villages should be based on the principle of mutud acceptance and should
be planned so as to provide higher incomes (from all sources) for relocatees and hosts.
7.  The resetdement plans should have popular aceptance and the affected population should be
consulted.
8.  Resettlement distances should be miunie and opportumities for resettig entire commuties
and natural groups should be provided.
9.  House and dweling size allocation at new town and village sites should show improved standards
and conditions.
10. The resettlement plas for towns, villages and enterprises suld mnitme the loss of existing
agdculturd lands.
11. Ihe resettlement plans should bave adequate institutional arrangements to ensure effective and
timely implementation and adequate monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
12. The financial resources to carry out the relocation and development proposas should be available
when and where required  Development plans should be prepared in concert with relocation
plans.
13. lTe impact of resettlement on the natural and socioeconomic host enviroment should be
considered acceptable.
14. Only those enterprises that will be economically viable should be considered for relocation and
the compensation for the assets of the nonviable enterprises should be used to create new
employment opportuities.
15. Inundated items of inftcte   such as roads, bridges, etc., should be replaced so that the
previous level of service is mainained or improved.
16. If sbaring fiamlands does not result in achieving target incomes, some of the labor force should
be offered nonagricultural employment opportunities.
17. Family members ef the employees of affected state enprises and institutions can go into
nonagricultual sectors on a voluntay basis. The units of local govenments, once compensated,
sall be responsible for such employMet armngements.
require fiurher review, discussion and basic agreement among all concerned levels of
government, especialy the local level.
2.28          Xinan recommended a resettlement scheme in which 20 percent of the
rdocatees were to be located within the county and 80 percent moved to Wenmengtan and
three downstream counties. However, its successful implementaton requires that YRCC
makes ready the river training works ahead of the original schedule, that provincial
government properly coordinates the socioeconomic relations between the relocatees and



- 14 -
host communities and that county resettlement offices undertake intensive work among
those resettled and host communities. The scheme is technicaly, economically and sociaUy
feasible.
2.29        According to the initial Jiyuan resettlement scheme, 70 percent of the
resettled will be moved near or back away from the reservoir within the county, and
30 percent will be moved to Wenmengtan. A revised plan includes resettlement within the
county on a fertile floodplain with access to township and village enterprise (CVE)
employment for about 10,000 relocatees. The scheme is technically, economically and
socially feasible.
2.30        Yuanqu proposes to locate all relocatees within its boundaries and most will
go to the Houhe reservoir and irrigation scheme. As listed in the capital construction plan
of MWR, this reservoir is an assured investment. Success of the scheme depends upon the
condition of the reservoir and the development of its benefits as planned. Since the
feasibility design indicates the project benefits will be realized as intended, the resettlement
scheme is considered feasible fiom technical, social and economic points of view.
2.31        With more farmland per capita to share between resettlers, Mianchi and
Mengin will properly locate all the relocatees on land within their territories. These
schemes are inherently simpler than those of the above-mentioned three counties.
2.32        With less than 1 percent of their county population affected, Xiaxian, Ping
Lu, and Shanxian will locate their relocatees internally, moving back from the rservoir
perimeter within the same township or village. Being simple in technology and
implementation, these schemes wiR pose little impact on county resources and economy.
2.33        Selection of Host Villages. Host villages were selected based on the
following criteria:
(a) villages with per capita landholdings larger than the average for the county;
(b)   potential for irrigation development;
(c)   hosts with a background in cash croping such as fuit tree crops, tobacco
and cotton;
(d)   availability of trained extension agents; and
(e)   access to markets.
The critena (Annex 5) and their implementation were reasonable, easily understood and
practical.



- 15 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OVERVIEW
3.1         Project Objectives. The objective of the project is to resettle and restore
and improve the livelihoods of nearly 154,000 people directly and 300,000 people
indirectly affected by construction of the Xiaolangdi multipurpose dam, and to minimize
the effects of social adjustment to their new environment. As planning and basic
infrastructure development for a}l 171,000 to be relocated (see para. 2.14) through the year
2011 would be undertaken under this project, the program numbers given below refer to
this larger population.
B. PRojEcr DEsCRIToN
3.2         The project comprises four major components:
(a) residential and infrastructure reconstruction for villages and towns;
(b)  transfer of resettders;
(c)   planning, design and institutional support; and
(d)  livelihood development, both agricultural and industial.
C. DErAILED FEATURE
Residential and Infrastructure Reconstruction
3.3         Residential Reconstruction for Villages. The agricultural population to
be resettled will be 153,906 people from 34,980 households. Most of the residents in the
reservoir area live in one of the 173 administrative vilage centers in the area. Water
supply conditions are generally good for most of the affected areas. Most residential sites
are also provided with comparatively convenient transportation and power supply. Villages
in the reservoir area are typicaUy built without regular layouts. Houses and cave dwellings
have poor ventilation, inadequate drainage and improper environmental sanitation. A
rural residence generally includes a central room, living room, bedrooms, storehouse,
kitchen, livestock feed room and auxiliary structures such as fences, pigsties and a toilet.
3.4         Currently, the rural village housing and private plots occupy 14,912 mu or
0.12 mu per capita. The residences in cave dwellings have adequate floor space of



- 16 -
Table 3.1: DImIBUTIoN oF PopuLATION BY RECEIVING AREA
Henan      2     Shanxi    Z       Total      X
Airicultural Population 124,108    100    MMJ78    100    153.906    100
Within Same Village
or Township          27,349    22    7,714       26     35,063     23
Within Same County     35,612    29    21,295      71     56,907     37
Wenmengtan             42,461     34         0      0     42,461     28
Other Downstream
Counties             11,326      9         0      0     11,326      7
People Losing House
Only                  7,360      6       789      3      8,149      5
Rural Town PoDulation    12.400    100    4.812    100      17.212    100
Total              136.508           34.610           171.118
26.7 m  per capita, but the construction -,iality and the sanitary conditions are poor.
Caves account for about 60 percent of the floor space of residences.
3.5         The new residential areas for relocatees were jointly selected by YRCC's
Research, Planning and Design Institute (RPDI), the affected counties, townships and
vilaes. A total of 276 host sites were selected. A total of 42,461 people (9,650 families)
will be moved downstream to 37 host sites on the Wenmengtan plain, mainly based on
newly created high-quality irrigated land to be protected by Xiaolangdi Dam itself (pars.
3.16). The rest of the relocation pattem is shown in Table 3.1 and discussed below. Most
of the selected areas are located along the boundaries between two or more administrative
villages so that the land-sharing ratio between relocatees and hosts is minimized.
3.6        About 35,000 houses covering a floor space of 3.9 million m2 will be built.
In general, residences will be mostly single-story houses, built of bricks and timber or
prefabricated. The three main models will consist of a central room and two bedrooms,
a central room and three bedrooms, or one central room and four bedrooms. Each will
incorporate a separate kitchen and a storehouse, as well as other structures such as fences,
livestock sheds, pigsties and a toilet. The dimensions of the individual homes and auxiliary
structures and utilities are summarized in Annex 7 for typical models and details of all
construction.
3.7         A village committee administrative facility, shops and a clinic are to be built
in each village center. A primary school will be located where suitable. New sites wil
provide suitable land and adequate drinkdng water for both people and livestock, road
access, power and communications, set in stable geological conditions. Based on present
water consumption for human and livestock use, the water used will be 60 liters per day
per capita Water supply sources will include groundwater and surface water from small
reservoirs.



- 17 -
3.8         Residential Reconstruction for Towns. The total town population who will
move to new towns is 17,212 people, of which about 70 percent now have agricultural
status. Most of the 11 towns inundated are situated in valleys or plains where the natural
soil conditions are favorable for agriculture, and rail transport facilities are available.
They fonn the political, economic and cultural centers in the local districts and play an
important role in the local economy. Of the 11 towns, 10 towns have populations of
1,000-2,000 people and one town contains approximately 5,000. One town will officially
cease to exist and its population will be dispersed among the other towns. A second town
will become a township seat. The remaining nine towns will be rel'ocated but will retain
their present administrative functions. The average basic town population size will- remain
the same and floor space per capita for buildings at the new site will be the same as that
of the old site. Infrastructure will be improved for such items as streets, power supply,
water supply and sewers, etc. New town sites covering 177 ha of land will house these
people. Seventy-eight main and side streets, totaling 32.6 mn, will be built as well as
10 water supply projects.
3.9         Relocation of Special Institutions. A tota of nine special institutions
including an experimental farm, a forest plantation, a nursery farm, a seed farm, a
navigation office, a canal management office, a hydropower management office and a
suspension bridge office will be relocated. Seven significant facilities above county level
also have to be relocated including a jail, a water project, and a hydrology station.
3.10        Infrastructure Reconstruction. Infrastructure inundated includes roads,
transmission lines, communications lines, broadcasting facilities, water supply works,
hydraulic stations and other special items (see Annex 7). The arterial highways will be
rebuilt to the same grade with the same quality of material as before. New residentia
areas will be serviced with simple highways. Wharves and ferries around the reservoir and
a total of 1,750 kan of roads will be built. Every village will be served with electricity,
requiring the construction of 632 km of power lines and other facilities. Telephone lines,
broadcast receiving facilites, water supply, and drainage facilities will be provided for
every vilIage.
Transfer of Resettlers
3.11        This component makes special provisions for transfer of all salvageable
materials and personal belongings, factory machinery and other goods from the present to
the new sites. The County Resettlement Offices (CROs) are conducting information
campaigns to create public awareness of the Xiaolangdi Project and of the transfer
arrangements. Usually six months prior to moving, individual households are provided
detailed information on compensation, new sites, housing and occupations. At this time,
each household's private assets are resurveyed and documented by the local authorities.
This will indicate the precise compensation entitlement of each relocatee household.
Villagers will be free to either build their own new houses (with or without building
materals supplied at wholesale cost by the village) or contract construction from local
contactors, including some of their own numbers. Many villages will actually be
constructed by an advance group of village workers, while others remain behind to salvage



-18-
materials and continue farming up to the time of inundation. Town dwellings are typically
built under contract by the towns. County water conservancy bureaus will construct water
supply schemes and resettlement offices will manage land allocation for residential
construction. The physical relocation will most often occur in a collective manner, with
assistance provided by local government and oooperatimn among the affected people.
Assistance would include the provision of transport vehicles, laborers, temporary shelter,
food and medical service, and social support networks. The tmnsport will be contced
to local trucking companies that will move the goods at the appropriate time, and should
only require a few days for each vilage. Transfer of agriculural population will be timed
to coincide with the autumn planting season.
Planning, Design, bntitutional Support
3.12        To support the project through implementation, a large planning, design and
institutional support component has been included. Most of the planning and design to date
has been undertaken by RPDI. Final designs for implementation will be underen by the
provincial, prefecture or county bureaus of the relevant departments. Annex 6, Table 2
shows details of the activity costs for design under this component. The insdtutional
support component will consist of increasing the staff of all CROs and the Yellow River
Conservancy Commission Resettlement Office (YRCCRO); expanding and building new
resettlement offices (ROs) at the varous sites; procung equipment and vehicles; and a
training component for county resettlement staff (Table 3.2).
Table 3.2: PRoPosEm REsTLEMEN  STArMG
Henan provin-e          Shanxi province
Staff in 1992 La                     101   (78) /bj            25   (21)
Initial phase, 1993-94              339  (299)                 65   (55)
Middle phase, 1995-2000              939  (864)                99   (84)
Last phase, 2001-                     32  (261)                79   (69)
La Total staff.
&   Numbers in parentheses are county and prefecture staff.
Livelihood Development
3.13        The labor force at the moving year will be about 75,220 people (about 1.9
per household), nf which about 78 percent are farmers, 11 percent are full-time rura
industrial workers, and 11 percent are government employees. Although farming is the
predominant occupation, a rapd shift is occurring in the rural economy to nonfarming
activities. Off-farm income accounts for 50 percent of rural per capita income. Hence,
plans for resettlers are to have 50 percent farmers, 29 percent industrial workers,
11 percent state farm enterprpse workers and 10 percent govenment employees. his shift



- 19-
in emWloyment from agriculure to industry u resukt in add}donal Income with at least
one family nmember fully comnmtted to a nonfann job, which will resul in erestng fann
,flmiy incomes being exceeded in the fiaw. Therefore, all projected per capita farm
incomes given below (pars. 3.16-3.19) have been augmented by off-farm income.
3.14       Reestablishment of Livelihoods In Agricutue. Within the Xiaolangdi
reservoir counties and host counties, most available arable land is already under
cultivation. The agricultural population that is eventually resettled into agricultural
production wil therefore have to share existing land resources with the host population.
This wull require significant resource development investments in irrigation, land
improvement, crop diversification and sideline activities. Agricultural improvements cover
an area of about 11,100 ha, -of which 7,000 ha will be irrigated. These improvements wil
include completion of the Houhe dam and irrigation scheme covering about 5,000 ha, and
a new rive traUining and warping scheme to protect about 13,300 ha and will create about
4,100 ha of new land for resettlers with aquaculture, industries and orchards et
Wenmengtan.
3.15       This component is designed to reestablish the livelihoods of the rural
relocatees in agriculture. The basic objective of agricultura resetdement planning is to
increase per capita income of both the relocatee and the host communities by 5 to
10 nercent in real terms, compared with that before resettlement. The component
comprises irigation and dryland development and the reestablishment of sideline activities.
Several production models proposed for agriculture resettlement are given below. The
overall agricultural planning for the reservoir area shows that acquisition land would total
153,215 mu, of which about 60 percent would be irrigated. The people to be resettled
total 127,116. On average, the cultivated land allocation will be 1.2 mu per relocatee and
investment amounts to Y 3,297 per relocatee; and 3.8 mu and Y 8,231 per agricultural job,
rspectively.
3.16        (a) Wenmengtan Model. Xinan and Jiyuan are the counties most affected
by the reservoir, with 79,300 and 30,500 persons, respectively, needing resettlement.
Moreover, these two counties will lose nearly 100,000 mu of land. Current per capita
agricultural landholdings are already low, at about 1.3 mu per capita Xinan county does
not produce enough grain for its current population and will also lose a further 3,600 tons
of grain due to inundation. Consequently, it is proposed to resetdle 42,000 people from
these two counties in the downstream Wenmengtan region, located in the adjacent
downstream counties of Mengxin and Wenxian on the north bank of the Yellow River
(Map 1). Here, host landholdings are marginally larger at 1.4 mu per capita, but nmuch
more productive, with access to irrigation. To increase the farmland available and to
reduce the risk of flood damage, river training works will be carried out between the Baipo
and Jiluo rivers. The scheme would protect 200,000 mu of flood-prone farmland and
create another 62,000 mu of state fannland. The estimated investment is Y 196 million.
A typical host and relocatee farm w.iAll be as follows for this area:



-20 -
Family size             4.4 persons
Per capita fannland     1.6 mu
Irrigated farmland      6.5 mu
Orchard                 0.4 mu
Total farmlaad          6.9 mu
Fishpond               tO.6 mu)
The projected per capita income for this model would be Y 998 and grain output per year
would be about 750 kilograms (kg) per capita. Cropping intensity would be at
177 percet. Aquaculture would provide a major boost to farm incomes in this low-lying
area, alongside intensive irrigation.
3.17        (b) Downstream Counties Model. It is proposed to resetde 11,300 people
from Xinan county into three downstream counties of Kaifeng, Zhongmu and Yuanyan.
Per capita farmland of these counties is currently 2 mu. With improved farming practices,
yields are expected to rise. A typical host and relocatee farm will be as follows for this
area:
Famy sie                4.4 persons
Per capita farmland     1.8 mu
Irfigated fkmland       7.1 mu
Dryland farmland        0.6 mu
Total farmland          7.7 mu
The projected per capita income for this model would be Y 790 for Kaifeng and grain
production per capita would be 420 kg per year. Cropping intensities would be about
150 percenLt. While most of the land made available will be shared with the hosts, it is
also proposed to expand shallow tubewell rrigation to carry out double cropping in order
to improve the productivity of land, and develop aquacultre where feasible.
3.18       (c) Partilly and Fully Irigated Farming Model. In host areas that have
land and potential or actual access to water resources for development, there are more
agricultural options. Two typical host/relocatees models were developed to represent
partial and intensive irrigation of the firmland available, respectively.
Partially Irgated
Family size             4.4 persons
Per capita farmland     1.5 mu
Irrigated farmland      1.6 mu
Dryland farmland        5.1 mu
Orchard                 0.9 mu
Total farmland          7.6 mu
Fishpond               (0.2 mu)



- 21 -
Fully Irrigated
Family size              4.4 persons
Per capita farmland      1.6 mu
Irrigated farmland       5.8 mu
Dryland farmland         0.7 mu
Orchard                  0.6 mu
Total farmland           7.1 mu
Fishpond                (0.2 mu)
The projected incomes for these models are Y 1,140 per capita, with an estimated grain
output of 800 kg per capita and Y 1,414 and 900 kg per capita, respectively. Cropping
intensity increases from 130 to 170 percent with intensive irrigation.
3.19        (d) The Houhe Reservoir Scheme.  TIis scheme is proposed as a
compensation measure for Houching town in Yuanqu county, where most of the irrigated
land would be inundated. The scheme would irrigate an area of 75,000 mu (5,000 ha).
The scheme would include completion of construction of the Houhe Dam (74.5 m high),
which a masonry arched dam, an arterial canal (3 m pipe) of 8.5 kIn, an east main canal
13 Ian, a west main canal 15.1 kin, associated secondary (101 kIn) and tertiary (185 kIn)
canals and structures servicing 5,000 ha. The detailed designs of the dam and associated
structures were reviewed ay an independent MWR dam safety panel prior to finalizing the
design. The designs were also reviewed by the Bank's dam safety specialist and found to
be satisfactory. The estimated cost is Y 800/mu, and the total investment of Y 75 million
includes a MWR contribution of Y 60 million and local (compensation) financing of Y 15
milion.
Family size              4.4 persons
Per capita fannland      l.i mu
Irrigated farmland       4.1 mu
Dryland farmland         0.0 mu
Orchard                  0.6 mu
Total farmland           4.7 mu
The projected income for this model is Y 780 per capita, with an estimated grain output
of 370 kg per capita. Cropping intensity would be at 150 percent.
3.20        Estimated costs vary between Y 3,800 and Y 7,000 per agricultural
relocatee, including land compensation. Without partial irrigation, costs are lower but
more land is needed. Minimum costs for partially irrigated agricultural resetdement are
about Y 3,800 per relocatee. These costs were developed based on small-scale village
schemes. The land improvement activities to be carried out include reclaiming wasteland,
teacing sloping land, installing shallow and deep tubewells, warping of Yellow River
floodplain areas to create new (and dam-protected) agncultural land and establishing
surface irrigation schemes based on reservoirs.



- 22 -
Industrial and Sideline Development
3.21       The industrial and sideline development program is based on the number of
off-farm jobs that need to be generated. Table 3.3 gives figures for the preresettlement
labor force structure and post-resettlement structure. A total of 21,070 (36 percent)
farmers will gradaly shift to nonfarming activities and jobs will have to be created for
them. Most of these jobs wil be created by new industries. This may seem a dramatic
shift in occupations. However, it should be noted that, of the 58,430 farmers today,
18,400 farmers are involved in village enterprises, 10,700 are involved in temporary
factory work and about 4,000 are involved in agricultural sideline activity. Hence, the
shift for most of these farmers will not be dramatic.
Table 3.3: LABoR FORCE PRE- AND Posr-REsLMENr
Pre-         Post-
resettlement resettlement Difference
Total                                 75,220        75,220            0
Agtriculture
Predominantly in farming            58,430        37,360      -21,070
nonatriculture
Contract laborer in factories        5,170         9,670       +4,500
Permanent workers in factories       3,080         8,880       +5,800
Commercial enterprises and TVEs        470        11,240      +10,770
Administrative                       7,520         7,520            -
other                                  550           550            -
3.22       Development of New Industrial Jobs. Eighty-four new or expanding plants
have been identified that will provide 20,528 new jobs for resettlers. Among the 84
enterprises 31 are County-Owned Enterprises (COEs) and 53 are township or village
enterpnses (1VEs). Virtually all the proposed COE investments are sponsored by existing
enterprises (as are many af the TVE investments), and are scheduled for rapid start-up;
indeed, 13 of the COEs have already started their new operations and recruited 492
resettlers (20 percent of whom are women, as per agreements with YRCCRO), as have 13
TVEs employing 284 resettlers. Table 3.4 gives a breakdown of the proposed investments
by counties. A total of 10,300jobs will be generated by COEs and 10,200 jobs by TVEs.
3.23       Thirty-five plants, those proposed for construction by the end of 1996, have
been reviewed in some detail by IDA missions. Many (77 percent) of them are expansions
of existing factories. Most of the industries to be expanded are in mining (11 percent),
constuction materials (26 percent), electronics (11 percent), food and drink (11 percent),
chemicals (7 percent), fertilizer (15 percent), and textiles (7 percent). These 35 will
employ 11,130 new laborers, of which 8,900 jobs are for relocatees. Government has



- 23 -
Table 3.4: NUMBE OF ENTERPRSS AND NEW JOBS FOR ESrLRS
SHFNG TO INDUSRY
County-run            Town-village
factories             enterprises
County/city           Total        No.       Employ        No.      Employ
Henan Province       15.434         30        9,073        39         6.361
Jiyuan                            11        3,735        10         1,345
Mengjin                           10        1,813         4           297
Zinan                              9        3,525        12        3,716
Mianchi                            -            -        12           907
Shaanxian                         -             -         1           96
Shanxi Province       5.094         1         1.238        14        3.856
Yuanqu                             1        1,238        12        3,600
Xiaxian                            -            -         1            49
Pinglu                             -            -         1          207
Total           20.528        31        10.311        53       10.217
Source: Resettlement Report by the Design Institute of YRCC.
already approved required external funding, which will be channeled through tfie People's
Construction Bank of China. About 10 percent of investment funds will be provided from
the resetdtement compensaton funds. A breakdown of some of these industries, mainly
consisting of planned COE investments, is shown in Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: ENT    SES CLASSFED BY IDUSRY
No. of  Average sales
enter-    growth rate    Average profit      Total
Industry                prises      (1992/91)     before tax/staff   staff
(Z)               (Y)
Mining                     3           9.0              1,420           970
Construction materials     7          54.7              1,720         3,748
Electronics                3          20.0             15,230         1,760
Food and drink             3          15.0              7,910          587
Chemicals                  2         <0.0               1,920           178
Fertilizer                 4         <0.0                 170        4,421
Textiles                   2         185.0              1,250         1,200
Other                      3          42.0              2,340          270



-24 -
3.24        Most of these industries are local resource users, and about half of them are
local market suppliers. Most of them are labor-intensive and prices of products are very
competitive in local markets. Almost all of the products have very robust local markets.
Growth rates of these existing enterprises have also generally been healthy.
3.25        The Henan and Shanxi governments have introduced several preferential
policies to ensure that adequate industrial employment is generated, and that resettlers
benFIftrom ta potential. These include:
(a)   Tax incentives: for projects that employ resettlers at specified proportions
of the incremental work force (typically over 50 percent), three to five years
of tax holiday, followed by three years of 50 percent reductions of normal
company taxes.
(b) Enterprises are entitled to low-interest (typically 5 percent per year) loans
of Y 10,000 for each resettler employed.
(c)   Enterprises started, operated, and financed (from their surplus resetaement
compensation grants) by resettlers themselves can use land in resettlement
vllages at no charge. This will benefit TVE development as resettlement
proceeds.
These preferential policies should not be considered subsidies to the vanous proposed
industrial activities themselves; the latter have been investigated in some detail and have
been determined to be commercially viable, given present information. They are
incentives to locate in specific (resettlement) areas and to employ, as a matter of social
equity, people from a specific (resettlement) community.
3.26        Reestablishment of Factories, Mines and Other Enterprises.  This
component includes moving and reconstruction of existing manufacturing and mining
operations, or developing replacement operations. A total of 18 factories will be rebuilt
at new sites, and eight mines and quarries developed. Sixty-five enterprises will shift into
different production areas. The planned investment specifically for this purpose would
total Y 158.6 million, representing Y 20,504 per worker.
3.27        Management and Socal Adjustment. Costs for maintaining resettement
offices, managing, implementing and monitoring the resettlement program, and for the
social adjustment program would be covered by the project. The social adjustment
program will formally integrate social adjustment issues into the planning phase of the
resettlement project, so as to protect relocatee and host living standards. The supporting
measures included in the program are (a) support services for fanning; (b) training and
assistance for nonfarm employment; (c) relocation of villages in host areas with due
consideration for hosts' concerns; (d) transfer arrangements; (e) establishing forma
agreements between hosts and relocatees; (f) ensunng that essental services (water supply,
schools, health clinics, etc.) can cope with the higher populations in the resettlement areas;
(g) training resetflement staff on social adjustnent issues; (h) documenting baseline



-25 -
conditions and establishing an independent monitoring system; (i) consulting with women
on resettlement issues and assisting them through training, employment in resetdement
offices and identfying suitable local enterprise opportunities in which they could
participate; and () providing effective health care, particularly for the more vulnerable
relocatees.
D. STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.28        Project Design.   PrWaation completed to date includes detailed
implementation planning and substantial execution of dam site resettlement, detailed design
of reservoir resettlement planning below EL 180, semidetailed designs of new settlements
from EL 180-275, as well as related special studies, agreements, drawings and maps.
Many pilot trials have also been undertaken, based on the resettlement for the dam site
area of 4,000 people before October 1993. The below-EL 180 m resettlers have to be in
place in their new settlements before June 1997.
3.29        For the above-EL 180 m resetdement, detiled designs for construction
purposes are progressing satisfactorily. Design for Wenmengtan and Houhe dam and
irriation has been completed in December 1993. The construction of these large sites for
about 55,000 resetders will be completed by early 1997 so that resetders can move in mid-
1997, almost six months before the coffer dam closure. The program of critical
agreements that need to be obtained at different levels of government is indicated in
Annex 14.
E. PoPULAR PARICIPATION Am CoMNSAON
3.30        Consultation. The degree and type of local popular participation in
planning Xiaolangdi's resettlement programs vary. When villages remain within the
original township, village leaders play a role in site selection and sites outside the original
township are generally chosen in consultation with villagers or their leaders. After
planners identify possible resettlement sites, villagers become involved through site visits
and village discussions. The resettlement office facilitates participation by encouraging
villager review of the layout of roads, water supplies, irrigation systems and housing areas.
Once moved, villagers are expected to quickly resume self-government. Traditionally, the
lack of a housing market has given households few or no choices about either the type or
location of replacement housing. In Xiaolangdi, a fairly wide range of housing types and
sizes, with varying costs to the resetder family's compensation package, is being offered.
3.31        Household Surveys. The resettlement team, in developing the resettlement
plan, has given particular attention to the opinions and wishes of the affected resettled
families and the affected host communities. In the past, resettlement planning was often
carried out by the project proponent, together with the responsible government agency,
with the assumption that government officials give adequate consideration to the real needs
of the affected villagers. Experience has shown that this is not adequate and that the
resettlement planning process must include direct participation of the affected villagers.
The resettlement teams' work plans included detailed household interviews of about



-26 -
5 percent of the affected families in the reservoir area. The results of these surveys served
as an valuable guide in formulating the detailed resettlement plan.
3.32        The work plan also included numerous discussions with govemment officials
at the village level, as well as officials at the higher township, county, prefecture,
provincial and national levels. Thus, the resettlement plan as developed is considered to
be a mix of inputs from all levels from bottom to top, including adequate consideration of
the affected people's opinions. In preparing the resettlement plan, the guiding principle
has been to ensure that affected relocatees receive housing, other residential facilities and
work facilities of a standard at least equal to their without-project situation and, in
addition, to assure them of a share in the overl project benefits. The resettlement plan
includes formulation and execution of written agreements among local officials concerned,
including village levels. This would be a major component in the monitoring and
evaluation plan.
3.33        CompenatIon Payments. MWR follows compensation regulations based
on the Law of Land Management. This law deals with land-use rights, land utilization,
land protection, control over land for use by the central and local govemments, and
assignment of legal responsibilities for implementation of the law. MWR also measures
public and private assets in order to detemine compensation payable to the affected party
(see Annex 4 and Table 3.6). The rates of compensation are set by state and provincial
authorities and some rates can be negotiated to account for special conditions. Large-scale
reservoir inundation creates a complex set of impacts for the various affected population
groups.
3.34        In order to ensure that households are compensated fairly, formal booklets
of household assets to be compensated and the rates applicable (down to individual saplings
and every square meter of each room, shed, and latrine) are being filled out for each
household and signed by local officials, resetdement officials, and the head of household.
Original copies of these booklets are kept by the resettler families as evidence of agreed
compensation amounts and derivation. Since much of the resettlement is done on a
collective basis, the compensation assessed for each household is being disbursed in
varying proportions: (a) to the host village (for land acquisition); (b) directly to the
household (housing, moving expenses, cash compensation for lost assets); and (c) to a local
authorty that contracts out services on behalf of the relocatees (house construction,
transportation, health care). Table 3.6 indicates compensation payment levels and
disbursements. For the dan site resettlement now completed for a sample of 2,500 people
(560 bmilies), the average compensation for household personal assets was Y 25,000.
3.35        Grievance Procedures.  If the resettlement process leaves households
aggrieved over their treatment, they can seek redress through a well-defined procedure.
This process is usually triggered by refusing to agree to resettlement agency offers. The
agency would attempt first to enlist the assistance of neighbors and village leaders, but, if
still unsuccessful, would turn to government mediators for help. If mediation proves
unsuccessful, the resettlement agency sets the terms of resettlement and the time limit,
usually 10 days, for compliance. Households can then initiate court action or refuse to



- 27 -
Table 3.6: COMPENSATION DLSUR9SED To HOUSEHOLDS
Compensation Items        Typical Amount        Disbursement of Funds
(Yuan)
Main houses                11,000-15,000        a) to construction team
b) to owner - self-built
Auxiliary houses              500-1,000         to ouner
Other structures            l,000-1,500         to owner
Scattered trees             2,000-3,000         to owner
Tombs                          1,000            to owner
Sideline facilities           varies            to owner
Contracted farmland         9,000-20,000        a) to host village
(collective)                                  b) to new employer
Standing crops                varies            to owner
(if not harvested)
Vegetable plot               500-1,000          to owner
Trnssport cost               500-1,000          a) to owner
b) to transport team
Lost production time          varies            to owner
Medical costs                 20-100            to owner
ZOTAL                 35.000-78.000
- of whicht                 10,500-35,000       to owner
10,000-68,000       to other units
obey the resettement terms and wait for the agency to sue. Courts act rpidly, with the
endre process taldng no more than two months for most cases. Decisions at that level are
final but rarely sought. The major shortcoming in grievance procedures appears to be the
failure not to publicize them more widy during resettlement. Assurances were obtained
dung negotations that the Borwwero slsUl maintain or shall cause to be maintained, and
shal publicie or shal came to be publicized, the avatllity of grievance procedures to
he and deenne fairly and in good faith, ter taking into account the Resettlement
Ctenra, al conwulainuv raised in relation to the implementation of he Resettlement Plan
by those being resettled or by those in host communies who are adversely offected by the
inplmentation ofhe Resettlement Plan and shall take aU measures necessary to implement
th deteminon made under such gnevance procedures.
3.36       The grievance channels and process available for Xlaolangdi relocatees in
both Henan and Shanxd provinces are as follows (also see Annex I ):
(a) All governments from county to province levels are furnished with offices
for public complaints, including those from relocatees, which would deal
with common grievances of relocatees in their jurisdictions.



- 28 -
0)    Higher-level resettlement agencies exercise supervision on the resettlement
work of lower-level offices. Such agencies cope with resettlement-related
grievances.
(c)    As the supervisor of the Xiaolangdi Project, YRCC would monitor and
check on local responsibilities to properly arrange resettlement, as required
by law. It will deal with relocatee grievances through audit examination and
direct consultation. Governments from the state to the county are provided
with administrative, supervisory, auditing, discipline, inspecting, judicial
and other organs that would handle violations of law or established
standards.
F. IMPLEMENTATION SCIEDULE
3.37          Resettlemeut Schedule. Resettlement would be carred out during project
construction in four stages (Table 3.7 and Annex 13, Chart 2). The first, dam site
resetdement, occurred between 1992 and early 1994. The second resettlement stage is in
the area below EL 180, from 1994 to 1996; the third from EL 180-265, from 1997 to 2000
and the final from EL 265-275, from 2001 to 2012, mainly concentrated in the years 2010-
2011. This project directly finances the second and third stages, during which the great
bulk of resetdement takes place.
Table 3.7: EsTIAsT   OF POPULATION TO BE RELOCATED
Ditly                                                                TOl
2AaVoir          afected              Total pooulation to be moved bv rear ('000)   population
levalh        population  19  1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2010 2011 to be moved
Dam dlt           9,556    6.6  2.3  1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    9,944
180 M            20,506   0.0  5.3  S.4  5.5  5.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   21,690
265 Id          115,733    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  31.6  32.1  33.2  33.8  0.0  0.0   130,612
275 M            13,053    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  8.9  9.0   17,924
Stat wora          880    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.5  0.0  0.0         880
DM           159.728   6.6  7.6  6.4  5.5  5.5  31.6 32J. 33.6  34    .9  9.0  18105
1r: (1) 1991 population eaimates.
a2) Projected anaual populion gowth rate after 1991 is 35 percent in Hena, 1.40 percent in Sbanxi and 3.00 perc
in towns.
3.38           A total area of 33,500 mu (2,233 ha) has been acquired for the construction
of the dam, which requires the resettlement of 9,944 people. Resettlement of this group
is ewectd to be completed in June 1994. By October 1993, about 45 percent of the
people were resettled and given jobs, and resettlement is well on schedule. The key date
during project construction is the completion of the cofferdam and river closure in the Fall
of 1997. At this time, the reservoir will begin to fill to EL 180, prior to which 21,690
people should have been previously resettled. Between 1994 and 1997, the average annual



-29 -
resettlement requirement is 5,500 persons. As the project construction nears completion,
the reservoir will begin filling to permit the first commercial power generation in 2000.
Since the minimum operating level for turbines is EL 205, major resettlement will have
to occur by 1999. YRCC has assumed that the reservoir population from EL 180 to 265
will be entirely resettled by 2000. By the year of moving, this will amount to another
130,612 people. This population must be moved in three years, 1997 to 2000 (preparatory
work will commence years earlier). The total resettlement population in the second and
third stages, calculated by the year of resettlement, is thus estimated at 153,182 1/
people. The Xiaolangdi reservoir will be operated to full supply level (FSL) 265 m for
approximately 10-15 years to allow for sediment deposition. In the post-deposition period,
the reservoir will be raised to FSL 275, requiring the resettlement of another 17,924
persons by 2011. Overall, 181,050 people will require relocation and rehabilitation on
account of the creation of the Xiaolangdi reservoir. The planned resettlement schedule is
realistic and there is sufficient slack in the system in the event the schedule for construction
of the dam is accelerated. Notwithstanding the above, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Borrower shall: (a) implement the Resettlement Plan in a manner
acceptable to the Association according to critertia given in Box 1, page 13; (b) ensure that
the coffer dam constructed under the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project is not closed unless
the progress of the resettlement program under the Resettlement Plan remains synchronized
with the progress of the construction program of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam, and,
if the construction of the dam is progressing faster than the rate of construction progress
anticipated in the Resettlement Plan by four months or more, the Borrower shall make
revisions in the schedule for resettlement and construction, satisfactory to IDA; and
(c) ensure that the water level of the Xiaolangdi Dam constructed under the Project is not
permitted to rise beyond 265 meters before the final details of the resettlement
arrangtements proposedfor those who are to be resettled in the last stage (2010-1. ) under
the Resettlement Plan have been provided to and approved by IDA. In addi -on the
Borrower shall cause the Houhe dam and irnigation scheme and the river training and
warping scheme at Wentengtan under the Project to continue to be carried out so that they
are sufficiently completed by June 30, 1996 to permit the resettlement planned for 1997
under the Resetlement Plan to be carried out as planned.
G. Cosr ETsrsTS
3.39        Cost estimates have been derived by applying current unit prices to detailed
quantity estimates for the main components. Unit prices are based on recent prices for
work carried out under local contracts or, for work to be done by force account, by actual
labor and material input costs. Equipment costs are based on recent price quotations.
Base costs are estimated in June 1993 prices. Physical contingencies of 8 percent have
been applied to all items. For costs expressed in US dollars, the expected price increases
are estimated at 0.5 percent in 1993, 3.4 in 1994, 2.9 in 1995, 3.0 in 1996, 2.7 in
1997-98, 2.5 in 1999-2000, and 2.4 in 2001; and for costs expressed in Yuan, the annual
rate is 10.9 percent in 1993, 20 in 1994, 12 in 1995, 10 in 1996, and 8 in 1997-2001.
,1 Rounded out to 154,000; see pam. 2.4.



- 30 -
Table 3.8 shows the project cost summary and detailed cost estimates of various
components are given in Annel6.
3.40       The total cost of implementing the resettlement progmm would be $571.3
million, of which $153.1 million is the foreign exchange component. The cost for
residential and infrastructure construction, including housing, is $235.7 miUion (50 percent
of the base costs) or $1,530 per capita on average. The cost of livelihood development is
$216.5 milion (base costs), or $1,402 per capita. The cost estimate includes $199.5
million (base costs) necessary for the constructaon of the Houhe dam, the Wenmengtan
floodplain nver trauning works and investments in new factones.
H. FIANCING
3.41       Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 79.9 million ($110
million equivalent) and would cover 19.3 percent of total project costs. The proceeds of
the Credit would be passed on to YRCCRO as a grant to implement the project with
asstance from the project provinces. The balance of $461.3 million equivalent would be
derived from the national budget provided for compensation (62.9 percent of project costs),
HenanShanxi provincial budgets (0.1 percent), enterprise contributions (8.4 percent), and
People's Construction Bank of China loans (9.3 percent). The project's financing plan is
indicated in Table 3.9. Financing by various government levels and the People's
Construction Bank is firm and enterprise proposals far in excess of the required
contribution have been received.
I. PROouRMT
3.42        Works. Because project civil and earth works are small (none exceeding
$1 million besides the Houhe Dam, esfimated at $5 million) and geographically dispersed,
they will not be of interest to international contractors. Therefore, local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA will be used for construction of Houhe Dam,
irrigation canals, drainage canals, diversion structures, land leveling, housing and public
facilities for a total estimated at $94 million. Force account procedures would be used as
construction of most of the housing ($48 million) will be undertaken by farmers through
self-help schemes. The farmers will select the model of house that they propose to build
out of a set of three or four models provided by resettlement offices. Steel, cement and
lumber would be provided by the resettlement offices. Farners will, however, procure
all other materials themselves or use some of the materials salvaged from tieir old homes.
Farmers will be paid an advance payment of 30 percent when they start to procure
materials. Progress payments are made at each stage of completion of the house
(foundations, roofing, claddir. tc.) and after satisfactory inspection by the township or
village resettlement officer. In addition, force account procedures would be used for
Wenmengtan ($32.2 million) river training and warping worls since these are speciahzed
works undertakn by YRCC.  A detailed list of civil works packages is shown in
Anne 12. The village earthworks in this total require local labor and materidal and are too
small to be of interest to local contractors. These works will be undertaken by force



Table 3.8: PRojEcr Cosr SummARY La
2        S Total
Y mfLllon  _                     8 million              Foreign       base
Local     Yoreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total    exchange        costs
Resettlement
Planning, deslga & administration                     41.0       19.6        60.5       7.1        3.4       10.5        32            2
Residential & infrastreture construction           1,074.8      280.3     1,355.1    186.9        48.8      235.7        21           50
Tranfer of relocatees                                 34.5        -          34.5       6.0        -          6.0         -            I
LvelIlhood & socall develosment
Wenmengtan                                         158.8       81.3       240.1      27.6       14.1       41.7        34            9
Soubh  dam & lrrigation scbeme                      52.7       26.3        79.0       9.2        4.6       13.0        33           3
Three downstream counties                           10.5        -          10.5       1.8        -          1.8         -            -
Agriculture development                             46.6        -          46.6       8.1        -          8.1         -           2
Industrial development                             521.2     306.5        827.7      90.7       53.3      144.0       37           30
boultoring & social adjustment                      31.0        9.9        40.9       5.4        1.7        7.1        24            2
Subtotal livellhood & social development          820.8     423.9      1.244.7    142.8        M-7    216.5           34          46
Subtotal resettlemaent                          1.971.1     723.8      2.694.8    342.8       125.9      468.7                    99
Envirozmental management plan                           15.4        4.7         20.0       2.7       0.8        3.5        23            1
Total Baseline Costs                            1.986.4     728.4      2,714.9    345.5       126.7      472.2        27         100
Physical contingencies                                 136.7       49.5        186.1     23.8        8.6       32.4        27            7
Price contingencies                                  1,644.2      600.1     2,244.3      48.9       17.8       66.7        27           14
Total Protect Costs                            3.767.3   1.378.0       5.145.3    418.1       153.1.    571.3        V           121
La EX:mpt from taxes and duties.
Note: Compute-Senerated table numbeas may not ad due to rounding off.



- 32 -
Table 3.9: PROJEcr FINANCING
($ million)
Local    Foreign    Total      S
Central Government                     322.3      37.6     359.9     62.9
Provincial Governments                   0.2       0.1       0.3      0.1
Enterprises                             27.7      20.2      47.9      8.4
People's Construction Bank of China     27.7      25.5      53.2      9.3
Subtotal                          377.9      83.4     461.3     80.7
IDA                                     40.3      69.7     110.0     19.3
Total                             410 153.1            7.0.3    g  g
account using laoor contracts, and wi}l be organized by the township or county
governments m coordination with the County Water Conservancy and Agnculture Bureaus.
3.43        Goods. All contracts for equipment and materials except cement, costing
$200,000 equivalent or more, will be procured under international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures. It is expected that ICB procedures will be used for the procurement of
construction steel and reinforced steel bars and vehicles amounting to $16.8 million, in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. All equipment and materials will be grouped as
far as possible in packages costing $200,000 or more. Domestic manufacturers will
receive a margin of preference equal to 15 percent of c.i.f. price of imported goods or the
actual import taxes, whichever is less, in the evaluation of ICB bids. LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA will be used for procurement of cement and for materials and equipment
costing less than $200,000 per contract (excluding steel and vehicles that will be procured
under ICB). Shopping may be used for the procurement of small amounts of office and
design equipment and instruments, costing no more than $50,000 per contract and totaling
not more than $1.2 million.
3.44        The Government will use the standard procurement documents as agreed
with the Bank and the Ministry of Finance for both ICB and LCB procurement procedures.
For the procurement of goods and materials, prior IDA review of all draft bidding
documents and recommendations for contract awards will be required for al contracts
costing $200,000, estimated to cover more than 80 percent of the total value of all
contracts. LCB bidding documents for civil works or earthworks equal to or over $1.0
million will be submitted to IDA for review prior to bid invitation. Consultants will be
recruited for project implementation assistance, industrial investment appraisal (para. 5.10),
project monitcring, and an environment and resettlement panel (para. 4.17), listed in
Annex 15. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines
for the use of consultants. Overseas training and study tours financed by the Credit will
be subject to IDA's prior review.



- 33 -
3.45        All ICB procurement will be administered by the International Tendering
Company (ITC) of the China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC) and China
Machinery Import and Export Company of China (CMIEC) on behalf of the YRCC Project
Management Office (PMO). lTC and CMIEC will be responsible for inviting bids for ICB
contracts, evaluating bids received, and submitting award recommendations to IDA. LCB
tenders for civil works and buildings are being prepared by the Provincial Resettlement
Offices (PROs), based on MWR guidelines and LCB procedures followed by other Bank
Group-financed projects in China. These procedures will allow for competitive bidding
by aU qualified construction and engineering enterprises, both within and outside the
project region. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.10. A detailed
presentation of procurement arrangements by components and by method is given in
Annex 12.
J.. DIuRSEMENr
3.46       Disbursements against expenditures for steel, cement, lumber, briclcs,
equipment and vehicles will be made at 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the
imported items, at 100 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items, and
75 percent of other items procured locally. Disbursement for civil works, land reclamation
and improvement will be made at 60 percent of total expenditures. Disbursements for
housing will be 60 percent of force account costs. Disbursement for overseas trning,
study tours and consulting services will be made at 100 percent of total expenditures, 100
percent for local training (for transportation, training materials and per diems), and 20
percent for environmental management services.
3.47       Disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs) in
the cases of contracts for civil works, earffiworks, housing, goods and services costing less
than $200,000 and force account work. SOEs for works and housing will be supported
by progress reports showing physical quantities and unit prices; the latter are to be updated
annually and reviewed by IDA. In order to provide for efficient disbursement, a Special
Account will be opened by YRCCRO with an initial deposit of $8.0 million in a bank
acceptable to IDA. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be
submitted monthly, or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its
initial deposit, whichever comes first. Retroactive financing of up to $10 million is
proposed for expenditures made for start-up office equipment, vehicles, office building,
and civil works for resettlement below the 180 m level made between October 1, 1993 and
the date of signing of the Development Credit Agreement. Assurances were obtained
during the negotiations that the Borrower shall establish by November 30, 1994 and
thereqfter maintain with a balance of not less than the equivalent of three months'
estimated noncreditproject expenditures (intially Y30 million), a revolvingfuind tofinance
all expenditures under the Project that are to be financed out of the Borrower's budgetary
resources, if there is a delay in the availability of such resources.
3.48       The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000 and the
credit is expected to close on December 31, 2001. The disbursement schedule is somewhat
slower than the extremely rapid historical profile for agricultral projects in China, since



- 34 -
Table 3.10: ftocuREmENr ARRANGEMEzS
($ minion)
Procurement method
ICB       LCB      Other       RIF      Total
Civil works                            94.0       32.2      63.8      190.0
(11.1)    (11.3)               (22.4)
Housing                                  -        48.0        1.8      49.8
(27.4)               (27.4)
Construction materials       13.8      42.3        -         -         56.1
(13.1)    (31.7)                         (44.8)
Agric. land improvement       -         16.3       0.4        -        16.7
(6.0)                          (6.0)
Equipment                     -          -         1.2     179.2      180.4
(0.9)               (0.9)
Vehicles                      3.0       -          -         -          3.0
(3.0)                                    (3.0)
Consultants (implemen-        -         -          3.2       -          3.2
tation)                                         (1.2)                (1.2)
Traininglinstitutional        -         -          1.5       -          1.5
support                                         (1.0)                (1.0)
Environmental management      -         -          5.8       -          5.8
(1.2)                (1.2)
Monitoring                    -         -          1.6       -          1.6
(1.1)                (i.1)
Admin/engineering             -          -         1.3      61.9       63.2
(1.0)                (1.0)
Total                   16.8     152.6       95.2     306.7     SZ1.3
(16.1)    (48.8)    (45.1)              (110.0)
NIF = Not IDA-financed.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts fianced by IDA. Other
procurement method refers to force account for worls, shopping for equipment,
and consultant services recruitment.
activities under ftis project are govemed by construction and filling of one of the major
dams in the world. Estimated schedules of expenditures and Jisbursements are given in
Ane  12.



- 35 -
K. AcCOUNwS AND AuDrrg
3.49        Provincial, municipal, and county resettlement offices would maintain
records of all project expenditures. These records would be forwarded regularly to
YRCCRO, which would consolidate the accounts and submit them to IDA. At
negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Borrower that YRCCRO would maintain
consolidated project accounts, which would be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. The State Audit Administration would be acceptable for this auditing
purpose. The audited project accounts would be submitted to IDA witiin six months of
the close of each financial year. The audited accounts are to include the Special Account
and. the details on withdrawals from the Credit account made on the basis of SOEs, and
the auditor's opinion as to whether such withdrawals were made against expenditures
eligible for disbursement by IDA.
L. ENVIRONMENTAL IMACr
3.50        A complete environmental impact assessment (ETA) had been completed by
the goverrment for the Xiaolangdi Dam and Resettlement Projects. The ETA Summary
was submitted to the Board on April 15, 1993. The major impacts relate to the social
environment, two major concerns being that the affected relocatee and host families will
(a) not be disadvantaged by the dam construction, and (b) will share in the project benefits.
For the relocatees in pardcular, it will be of paramount importance that (i) their livelihoods
will be reestablished in a new location where the house, yard and amenities will be at least
as good as before; (i) the families' new eaniing potential will be at least as good as
before; and (iii) family expenses and losses encountered during the transition will be duly
recognized and compensated for. Furthermore, it has to be assured that a realistic and
fair grievance and complaints system wil be established to provide fair and timely relie
to relocatees and hosts. Two other environmental impacts identified relate to public health
and sanitation and the removal of cultural relics. A management plan has been developed
to ensure that public health issues and treatment of cultural relics are attended to fully
under the project (see Annex I).
3.51        Effects on the natural enironment are expected to be marginal for the
agricultural relocation component, since relocatees will move mainly to already existing
agricultural areas where they will be helped to improve soil fertlity and moisture
conservation. In addition, yield mncreases and crop diversification will predominantly be
achieved tbrough an increase of the irgated area. The proposed two small new irrigation
schemes (Wenmengtan and Houhe) will improve conditions on existing agricultural land,
except for an area of about 3,500 ha, which will be created through warping of silt banks
inside the bed of the Yellow River. No adverse effects are expected with regard to
wildlife and xcisting forests; in fact, some poor and totally bare land in the mountain areas
will revert to production forest for erosion control, timber, fuel and fodder production.
The relocated and reconstructed enterprises and mines will upgrade their production
technologies and will have to adhere to much stncter enironmental standards compared
to the requirements in place during original construction. Archeological experts did not
find evidence of any archeological relics that would be affected by the resetdement areas.



- 36 -
3.52       The summary environmental review indicates that adequate housing, housing
amenities and external support facilities as well as equal earning potential for the affected
population would be provided. Lost income will be adequately compensated. Host
communities wil benefit through the provision of improved water supply, health clinics,
roads and schools. Acceptance of relocatees by the host community is ensured through
elaborate consultation and negotiation procedures; relocation within the same ethnic group
is guaranteed, as well as relocation within the minimum feasible distance. An acceptable
grievance/complaints system has been established and resources for environmental
monitoring are provided for. The resettlement plan is in compliance with the Bank Group
requirements on resettlement and environmental assessment, and in fact exceeds them in
its detailed provision for the reestablishment of livelihoods. An independent Environment
and Resettlement Panel will be in place to monitor the resettlement program and will give
advance waning for management action (para. 4.17).
3.53       Relocated and new industrial enterprises and mines wil be required to
prepare assessment and other environmental reports as required by the relevant County and
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureaus and to fu}ly comply with all relevant air,
noise and liquid waste emission standards from the time of start-up. The Provincia
Environmental Protection Bureaus will be required to review and authorize the design of
pollution-control facilities, to inspect the facilities during commissioning and to certify to
the project environmental monitoring team that the facilities have been installed and are
operaing in accordance with regulations. Assurances were obtained at negotiatons that
the Borrower shall:  (a) ensure thaUt  acdives under the Project comply with
enviromnental standards and guWdelines satisfactory to the Association, including the
regulations and guidelines issued by the National Environmental Protection Agency and the
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureaus; (b) miplement the Environmental
Management Plan i a manner acceptable to the Association, including all necessary
measures to minmize and to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts caused by the
implementadon of the Project, such as emissions from relocated industies under the
Project; (c) maintain YRCC's environrnental management office with competent staff in
adequate numbers and with responsibilities andfnctions acceptable to the Association to
manage, coordinate and monitor the inplementation of the Environmental Management
Plan, and (d) prepare and furnish to the Association by December 15 in each year the
detailed plan for implementation of the Environmental Management Plan in the next
calendar year.



- 37-
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. AGENCIs PARTICIPATING IN RESFLEmEmT IMPLEMENTION
4.1         MWR's Resettlement Office  MWIRRO) will oversee the overall
implementation of the project. MWRRO is presently under two agencies: MWR and the
Foundation of Water Conservancy and Hydropower Construction (FWCHC). FWCHC is
a fovmdation composed of members from MOF, MWR, Ministry of Power, Minity of
Energy and the State Planning Commission (SPC). MWRRO is presently responsible for
the resettlement associated with two projects-Xiaolangdi and Wanjiazhai Projects
involving 235,000 resettlers. It also provides support services and funding to resette
after the resettlement process is completed in 46 major projects to ensure that resetders
wi1 not be disadvantaged in any way. MWRRO has four divisions (Project Construction,
Past Project Support, Finance, and Comprehensive Division) with 20 staff presently, to be
increased to 30 during the project. The office presently handles a total annual budget of
$50 million.
4.2         At the field level, YRCC is required by MWR to conduct investigations of
the reservoir area, estimate compensation and prepare resettlement planstsolutions. This
planning work was undertaken by the Reconnaissance Planning and Design Institute (RPDI)
of YRCC. RPDI's Planning Division No. 2 has a Reservoir Economic Section with 30
professional staff to carry out resettlement investigation, costing and planning. YRCC also
established a Resettlement Office (YRCCRO) with 40 staff to liaise with local government
during the planning and implementation stages of the Xiaolangdi resettlement project. An
assurance was obtained during negodations that the Borrower shall ensure that the
provinces preparefinal resettlement program designs according to the resettlement plans.
RPDI would be retained to approve allfinal resettlement construion designs. Thefina
provincial/county resettlement site designs shall be reviewed and approved by YRCCRO.
4.3         YRCCRO would operate as the implementation supervisor of the Xiaolangdi
Resettlement Project. Its resettlement office would exercise daily supervision in the
reservoir area and resettlement sites including monitonng and auditing of the whole
resetdement program on behalf of the state and the owner. The proposed organiztional
structure and financial flows for resettlement implementation are summarzed in Apnex11,
Chart 1. The provincial and country resettlement offices (PROs and CROs) would be
responsible for directly managing implementation. Financial resources would flow directy
from the Ministry of Finance to the provincial governments and to the resettlement offices.



- 38 -
4.4         Leading Groups.l/ Leading Groups (LG) have been established at central
government level and at the Henan and Shanxi provincial levels to develop strategies and
provide generl oversight of the planned resettlement. The LG at central govemment level
consists of a Deputy Chairman of SPC, Vice Minister of MWR and Vice Governors of
Henan and Shanxi. The main function of this LG is to coordinate the project at the central
government level and to resolve any policy, legal, funding, land use, agricultural and
nonagnculturl registration matters. The Provincial LGs include about 25 people, headed
by Vitce Governors of the Provinces. The leading groups liaise with YRWHDC and
YRCCRO. These groups have been instrumental in reaching agreements on key
components of the resettlement plan, such as the approval for sending relocatees to the
three downstream host counties. The LGs are responsible for directing the Henan and
Shanxi Resettlement Offices. Leading groups have also been set up at the municipal level
and would be established in each affected county to facilitate coordination between
departments and to accelerate approval of interdepartmental issues.
4.5        Henan  Provincial Resettle        Office  (PRO).    Resettlement
implementation is the responsibility of the provincial govemments, which ultimately bear
the responsibility for the welfare of their citzs. About 80 percent of the prospective
Xiaolangdi resettlers live in Henan Province, which has substantial resettlement experience,
with over one million people resettled over the last 40 years as a result of water
conservancy projects. At present, in Henan 127 resetdement staff are available for the
Xiaolangdi Project: 40 at the PRO; 22 at the municipal offices; and 65 at the county
offices. This staff would be increased to 507 (by 1995). The PRO would be responsible
for detailed planning and management of resetdement implementation. This office controls
the disbursements of funds to CROs or other departments directly involved with
resettlement implementation (e.g., of roads, electrical transmission lines, etc.). A key
function of the PRO would be to monitor progress, cost overruns, delays in physical
progress and other implementation problems. The office would provide experise from its
own staff to other provincial agencies in order to resolve technical and social problems.
4.6         Shand Provcdal esettlementOffice. In the early 1970s, this office was
involved in the resetdtement of 5,500 people and there are two other projects in the
feasibility planning stage requiring resettlement. At preset, Shanxi Province has 25
resetdement staff for the Xiaolangdi Project, of which 4 are at the provincial office, 8 at
the prefecture offices and 13 at the county offices. The province would increase the staff
to 99 persons to meet peak requirements of this project.
4.7         County and Prefectore (Municipal) Resettlement Offices. County and
prefecture resetdement offices are the most important management offices for resettlement
implementation. They would administer 75 percent of the financial disbursements; the
remainder would be handled above the county level. The CROs would develop updated
detailed implementation plans and schedules as resetdement proceeds. Through officials
at township and village levels, the CROs would oversee the construction of houses,
I/  Mms rfetrrd to as coordinatin group.



-39 -
irrigation schemes, land improvement and infrastructure as well as the actual moving of
people and physical assets. The CROs would be responsible for the timely availability of
financial and material supplies in sufficient quantities. They would ensure that other
departments responsible for construction services would provide infrastructure on time and
on budget. The CROs would also have an internal system for monitoring resettlement
progress and financial control. CROs in the reservoir region have been established but are
not yet fully staffed and have limited support facilities for implementation.
4.8        Institutional Capacity of CROs. CROs in counties with moderate impact
would have 20-40 staff at the county level, plus 34 people for each affected township and
would recruit additional people at the village level on a temporary basis during
implementation. As a general rule, each CR0 would have one full-time staff member for
every 1,000 people to be relocated; additional staff would be required for special schemes
like Wenmengtan and Houhe reservoir. The typical CRO would be overseen by a leading
group for resetdement that consists of three senior county officials-governor, deputy
governor, and deputy secretary. The CROs are headed by a director and two deputy
directors. Typically, CROs are divided into various sections, including resettement
section, financial section and administrative section. Staffing of CROs has usually been
accomplished by transferring people from other county departments. Staff tend to be
administrative appointees. Now that more detailed planning and implementation is
required, staff would be increased with well-qualfied people from the following
disciplines: managerial staff, financial analysts, accountants and bookkeepers, technical
supervisors, planners, social workers, envi onmental engineers, material supply and
logistics coordinators and office support staff A training program focusing on resettlement
activities would be required for most staff r mbers. Appropriate management information
systems and training programs need to be developed at the provincial level and transfered
to each CRO. The CROs are the key to successful resetdement implementation. They
must have clearly established jurisdiction in order to effectively coordinate the various
departments that would be involved in the process. Accordingly, the CROs would be
strengthened to be capable of working closely with the affected people. Adequate office
supply, equipment and vehicles, as well as financial support would be provided for under
the project.
4.9         Staff Training.  Structured trang will be made available for the
resettlement staff from national and provincial agencies. The methods for delivering
training would include lectures given by officials and experts; technical training courses
at various institutes; study visits to other projects where resettlement is conducted; and on-
the-job training for technical and administrative staff (see Annex I). The training
components would involve:
(a)   explanation of resetdement principles and policies to management and
technical staff;
(b)   project management training (management information systems, cost
control, etc);



-40 -
(c)   administrative and accounting practices for project implementation and
monitoring;
(d)   seminars in socioeconomic issues for all resettlement staff;
(e)   structured training for staff dealing with social adjustment problems; and
(1)   taning in public consultation for management, planners and field staff.
MWR has established a resettement training center in Xi'an and programs were developed
since 1992. The facility provides higher-level training for senior resettlement staff and
courses are given by experts from all parts of China and, in the future, possibly from other
countries. In addition, Hehai University in Nanjing has a program for resettlement and
the first training groups of students graduated in 1992. There are also local training
centers at Yuanqu, Taiyuan (Shanxi), and Zhengzhou, and Loyang (Henan). Three
hundred fifty staff from Shanxi resettlement offices and 1,390 staff from Henan will be
trained through a selection of several courses (see Annex 15). Most of the training will
be in courses of 10 to 20 days. In addition there will be training for staff in YRCCRO.
Seventy-eight will be trained in short courses on project scheduling, management, cost
control, etc., both overseas and loca}ly. A list of courses is indicated in Annex 15. An
assurance was obtained during negotiaions that the Borrower shall ensure that all training
and technical assistance under of the project, including local and overseas training, study
tours and consultants' services are carried out in accordance with a program satfactory
to IDA.
4.10        All of the organizations for resettlement implementation are in place. Each
agency has been assigned specific implementation responsibilities and authority. The
coordination of these various agencies is being managed overall by MWR Resettlement
Office, and by YRCCIRO on a day-to-day basis. YRCCRO has increased its staff to meet
these needs. The various resetdement agencies would require strengthening before they
will be capable to implement the peak resettlement program. Such strengtening would
include further increases in staffing, staff training, closer cooperation with implementing
agencies, and new equipment and vehicles. Staff levels at the CROs in the affected
counties below EL 180 have already been raised to 22-25 per county. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Borrower shall (a) maintain the resettlement office
of MWR, to be responsible for the overall unplementation of the Project, and the
resettlment ofice of YRCC, to be responsible for daiy implemntaton of the Project, with
funcions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Associaton, and with competent staff in
adequate numbers; (b) cause the Project Provinces to maintain their respective Provncial
resettlement offices andprefectural and county resettlement offices, also withfunctions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, with competent staff in adequate numbers;
and (c) maintain its Central Leading Group and cause the ProJect Provinces to maintain
their respective provincial leading groups with composition andfnctions satifactory to
the Association.



-41 -
B. IMPENTATION MANAGEMENT Am RESPONSmILITH3S
4.11        Implementor's Responsibility. Organization of the implementing agencies
is indicated in Annex t, and their responsibilites under the project area summarized
below:
(a) MWflO has overall responsibility for resettlement work, to study and
evaluate implementation experience, to coordinate implementation, and to
handle resetdement of projects under the direct leadership of the central
government. They will also organize training for resettlement staff at
Provincial/Municipal and County Offices. They will also be responsible
for arranging for support services for 5 to 10 years after resettlement
activities are completed under the project.
(b)   YRCCRO will monitor and, supervise the execution of the Xiaolangdi
resettlement program, including planning and financial control; information
exchange; collaborating with local authonties in reviewing their proposed
subprojects; coordinating, inspecting and monitoring actions of local
authorities and special designers as weUl as acceptance of completed
projects.
(c) Provincial and municipal/prefecture resettlement offices will coordinate
resettlement within their jurisdictions. Specifically, they will prepare and
evaluate resettlement programs; manage resettlement schedules, financial
and material supply plans; organize and coordinate the implementation of
specidal projects and independent development activities that county
authorities cannot implement; direct, check on, supervise operations of
lower agencies; conduct postresettlement socioeconomic assessment; and
monitor and evaluate the execution of resetdement and adherence to
policies.
(d)   The CROs are required to provide direct arrangements for moving and
resettlement. CROs assist county governments in organizng townships/
villages and relocatees in implementation. CROs will prepare the detailed
county implementation programs; confirm agricultural and nonagricultual
production measures; verify and tabulate inundated asset item by item;
handle procedures for honoring land compensation; increase awareness
among the relocatees; engage relocatees in the construction of new sites and
relocation; control the county resettlement funds and material supply; deal
with any problems after resetdement; and generally help in the development
of relocatees and hosts. CROs coordinate and handle any problems
encountered in the process of implementation, report progress to upper
levels and assist monitoring and supervision activities.
(e)   Locl- goverment depar    will be called upon by the resettlement
agencies to design and construct major facilities for the resettlement



-42 -
program (new towns, public buildings, water supply, irrigation schemes,
woads, electrical lines, telecommunications, etc.) in line with their nonnal
functions.
(f)   Township governments, with the assistance of viUlage officials, will take
responsibility for land transfer and readjustment of land allocations,
reestablishment of livelihoods, village reconstruction, small water
conservancy schemes, land prepaation, and physical transfer arrangements.
County resettlement staff will be assigned to township stations in the
affected areas to facilitate the supervision and monitonng of implementation
and resolve day-to-day problems.
(g)   Under the supervision of village and group leaders, each household witl
have joint responsibilities for house construction, transfer anrangements and
land preparation.
C. FINANaAL CONROL
4.12        Xiaolangdi Reservoir resettlement financing would be independently sourced
from earmarked central government budgets (resettlement compensation), funds for Yellow
River management (Wenmengtan), MWR capital construction funds (Houhe Dam
construction), and financing by local governments (mvestment in enterprises).
4.13        The resettlement implementation has been contracted to Henan and Shanxi
Provinces. Resettlement compensation would be disbursed (as per state-reviewed standards
and plans) by the People's Construction Bank of China to Henan and Shanxi Provincial
Governments, which will in turn hand it down to local resettlement agencies. Financial
resources for the Wenmengtan project would be handled directly by YRCC. Financial
flows for the Houhe Dam would follow the normal hierarchy of the Water Conservancy
Bureaus, with construction managed by the Yuanqu County Water Conservancy Bureau.
Local funds would be managed directly by the junsdiction (or enterpnse) that raises the
financing. Annex II, Chart 2 shows the financing sources and financial flows for the
reservoir area resettlement implementation.
D. SuEVSON AND Morro1uG
4.14        Comprehensive superision and monitoring systems would be established to
ensure timely scheduling of resetdement programs, cost control, cost effectiveness and the
realization of economic benefits for relocatees and hosts. MWRRO would be responsible
for the monitoring of resetdement implementation. YRCCRO would coordinate, inspect
and monitor local implementaton on behalf of MWR.
4.15        Supervision and monitoring forms would be filled out by resettlement
psonnel at township or village level, collected and assembled by the CRO, and then
circulated to the higher-level resettement agencies, with a copy to YRCCRO. These
forms would also be included in construction progress reports submitted by supervising



-43 ^
engineers. These forms and corresponding written materials would be prepared on a
quarterly basis. In this way, resettlement operations can be monitored and problems
identified and quiclkly resolved by the local authorities. YRCCRO would consolidate the
reports produced by the provinces aad counties and would prepare progress reports to be
forwarded to IDA by January 31 and July 31 of each year during project implementation.
Assurances were obtained during negotations th  the Borrower shall furnish to IDA by
December 15 in each year the work program and thefinancing plan,for implemening the
portion of the project to be carried out during the following calendar year, indicating the
proposed sources and uses offunds with its proposed budgetfor that portion of the project.
Assurances were also obtained that the Borrower wzll undertake a mid-tern review with
IDA by June 30, 1996.
4.16        Independent Technical Review. YRCC has engaged professors and experts
from North China Hydroelectic Institute to conduct separate evaluations of relocatees'
socioeconomic progress. The services provided by the various departments of the institute
are aimed at evaluating and reportng the level of living conditions and social services of
the affected population, both prior to and after resettlement. The evaluation would be done
biannually (July and December) and would cover: farm yields, employment, education,
public health and incomes in new host areas, as well as relocatees' evaluations of
organizations, services and social progress in new sites. Socioeconomic evaluation would
be based on a number of key indices for selected households in combination with
specialized observations by independent social scientists. The monitoring would be
financed as part of the resettlement budget. Assurances were obtained dunng negotiations
that YRCCRO would (a) contnue to employ an independent monitoring instiuion
acceptable to the Association to evaluate at least semi-annually the socioeconomic progress
of those resettled under the Project and those in host communites who are affected by such
resettlement; and (b) furnish promptly to the Associanon for comment the report of each
suh evaluation along with proposals for meeting Project targets in accordance with the
Resettement Plan if these are not being achieved.
4.17       International/lal Environment and Resefflement Panel.   An
international panel of resetdement and environment experts would also be recruited by
YRCCRO for the entire duration of the project. The panel would review the progress of
the project every six months, ensure that the resettlementlenvironmental objectives of the
project are being adhered to, and would advise on resolving any issues that may arise
during the implementation of the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Borrower shall (a) employ an international Envronment and Resettlement Panel of
independent experts with composition and fiunctions satisfactory to the Association to
conduct semiannual reviews of the implementation of the Resettlement Plan and the
Environmental Management Plan and of the detailed resettlement and environmental
management programs under such Plans; (b) furnish promptly to the Association the
fnngs and recommendationsfor folow up acton resulting from each such review; and
(c) implement all such recommendations for follow-up action as are agreed with the
Association.



-44 -
4.18        Houhe Dam  Safety Monitoring.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Borrower shagl, under arrangements satisfactory to IDA: (a) employ,
or shall cause Shanxi to employ, a panel of independent experts, with composition and
funtions acceptable to the Association, to conduct periodic reviews no lessfrequently than
IDA requires during final engineering and construction to examine whether any new
grounds for making changes in the design of the dam or technical specifications have
become apparent, and to report theirfindings to the Borrower and IDA; and (b) cause the
Houhe Dan and related structures constructed under the project to be periodically
inspected by independent experts in accordance with sound engineering practice in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in
the qudity and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the same, which may
endanger their safety and the Borrower shall propose to IDA appropriate arrangementsfor
IDA's review no later than one year before the completion of the dam and related
structures constructed under the project.
E. SuPPORT SERvic sR R
4.19        Sol Support Services. Although China has extensive expeience with
involuntary resetdement, YRCC's resettlement planning process for Xiaolangdi is the first
attempt to formally integrate social adjustment issues into the planning phase of a water
conservancy project. Two baseline household surveys were done and the results are
presented in the Summary of the Environmental Impact Assessment (An61= 1), distributed
to the IDA Board of Directors on April 15, 1993. YRCC, the provinces and CROs will
monitor the implementation of the resettlement program to ensure that social adjustment
is facilitated by protectng resettler and host living standards. Other supportng measures
covered under the project would include:
(a)   support services for fanning;
(b)  training and assistance for nonfarm employment;
(c)   relocation of villages in host areas with due consideration for hosts'
concerns;
(d) transfer arrangements;
(e)   establishing formal agreements between hosts and relocatees;
(1)   ensunng that essental services (water supply, schools, health clinics, etc.)
can cope with the higher populations in the resettlement areas;
(g) training resettlement staff on social adjustment issues;
(h)   documenting baseine conditions and establishing an independent monitoning
system;



-45 -
Q1)   consulting with women on resetdement issues and assisting them through
training, employment in resettlement offices and identifying suitable local
enterprise opportunities in which they could participate; and
(0)   providing effective health care, particularly for the more vulnerable
relocatees.
4.20        A detailed training program has been developed for resettlers for livelihood
development in agriculture and industry. In agriculture the trainng will focus on
horticulture (apple, pears, peaches, etc.), aquaculture, sideline industry, dryland to
irrigated farming, cash-crop development, etc. A total of about 9,500 key farmers
(25 percent of all resettler farmers) will mainly be trained in agrotechnical extension
centers. The costs of the taining will be covered under the project. In addition, training
wi}l also be given to resetders who are switching to industry. The main training will be
for certification for specialist industrial skills (6,000 workers) and prejob and on-the-job
taining (17,000 workers) (see Annex 15). In addition, about 300 senior staff will be given
taning in enterprise management. The total cost of industral training will be covered
under resettlement compensation costs.
4.21        Integration with Host Groups. The relocated villages will be physically
independent from the host communities, but they will have to be integrated into the local
administrative, social and economic system. The degree of integration required is basically
determined by the distance of the move. Relocatees moving back within their own village
require the fewest adjustments.  Long-istance relocation requires major social
readjustment to the host communities. The township governments are responsible for
ensuring that the transition is smooth, that the host communities accept the relocatees, and
that social and economic adjustment problems are resolved to the satisfaction of all parties.
The agreements signed by the host and relocatee villages indicate a willingness to
cooperate and provide a legal basis for resolving disputes. The CROs will also mount
information campaigns to raise public awareness of the personal and social adjustments that
must be made for successful resettlement and the long-term benefits of cooperative
development.
4.22        Women In Resettlment. Women will play a key role in resetdement and
will assume corresponding responsibilities and authority in decision-making. Women
typically bear the burden of social as well as economic adjustment in the household.
Traditional support networks for women within the village will be essentdal to assist each
family through each phase of resetdement. Many of the concerns for education, health,
water supply and sanitation are raised by women, so they would also be the major
participants in decisions involving the pro 'ion of these services and facilities. Contracts
with all industrial enterprises receiving resettlement funds stipulate employment of females
at minimum levels of 20 to 25 percent of the work force; IlDA review indicates that these
provisions are being adhered to.
4.23        SpecIal Disadvantaged Groups. Resettlers will be relocated in a collective
manner, unless individual households desire to opt out of the proposed plans. In this



- 46 -
manner, there will be support from existing village networks or from relatives in nearby
unaffected areas. Conditions in the new site will generally be better for people who are
elderly, disabled or in poor physical or mental health. Children will also benefit from
cleaner, safer and more modem amenities. There are no groups of ethnic minorities in the
reservoir area or the receiving areas. The most critical group is the elderly who suffer the
greatest psychological stress from the loss of familiar surroundings and the disruptions of
relocating. Without proper attention, this can lead to physiological problems. Social
support groups and medical staff will be avaiable at the village level to address this issue
(Annex 10).
F. SAFETY NErs/Sun'ORT MECHANSM
4.24        When relocatees or host communities encounter production or livelihood
problems, economic support and technical assistance are available from (a) support relief
or loans by local governments, (b) resettlement contingency funds, (c) host jurisdiction
contracts ensuring support for resettler development programs and income maintenance,
(d) preferential policies offered by MWR and provincial governments, (e) alternative
resettlement sites to substitute for any that do not succeed (Annex 5 , and (f) special
reserve funds provided by MWR up to 10 years after resettlement.
4.25        MWR will have a special Reservoir Area Support Fund, established from
power sales revenues, which would guarantee minimum incomes to households that are
unable to satisfy their needs due to farm and nonfarm livelihood failures. Applicants to
the Fund will be referred through the village leader to the CRO. Assurances were obtained
during negodatiorns that the Borrower, acting through MWR, shall (a) establish by
December 31, 2000 and thereafter maintain a Reservoir Area Support Fund in an amount
which is sufficient to provide minwuwn incomes to those who are resettled under the
Project, or whose itcomes or livelihood are adversely affected by the Project, and who are
unable to achieve or to maintain their preproject income levels; and (b) operate such Fund
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, until such time as the
Borrower (acing through MWR) with the concurrence of the Association daetnines that
potential beneficiaries are no longer likely to require Fund assistance.
4.26        For nonfarm workers, employment and income risks will be covered by their
production units. If units go bankrupt, the agreements signed in advance provide for
relocatees to be compensated or integrated into other units.



-47 -
5. ECONOMIC ASPECTS OF LIELIHOOD DEVELOPMENT
5.1         Resettlement itself is not susceptible to economic analysis. It is a social
necessty, whose compensation is part of the cost of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project.
But economic, financial, and commercial analysis of livelihood development programs for
the resetder (and host) communities is necessary (and has been done) to provide assurance
that those affected by the larger project will achieve living standards at least as high as
they would without that project. This analysis is easier for more highly planned programs,
more difficult for less highly planned ones. On that spectrum, agricultural and land
development (which will provide 50 percent of resetdler employment) is the most highly
planned, followed by industrial investments by large entexprises (mainly COEs, but
including some larger TVEs), industrial investments by smaller TVEs (mainly village and
private enterprises), and commercial and sideline activities by individual families, which
are most difficult to forecast. The large-scale agricultural and land development schemes
show economic rate of return (ERR) of 11 to 19 percent, while the county industries have
average ERR of 45 percent. The weighted average ERR for the project based on these
ERs is 32 percent.
A. AGIucunuRAL LiEIHOoD DEVELOPmET
5.2         Changes in Land Use. The main thrust of the agricultural development
program will be a major shift from mainly subsistence faring to a farming pattern much
more strongly emphasizing production of high-value products for the commercial market.
This is reflected in the planned change in land use indicated in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: RESE'Ru FARMwED AREAS
Pre-                 Post-                 2
Cultivated area        resettlement          resettlement           change
(mu)                 (mu)
Irrigated area            84,390               104,000                 +23
Dryland                   82,099                40,000                 -51
Vegetable plots            4,934                 4,000                 -19
Orchards                   4,695                 8,000                 +70
Fishponud                    419                10,400             +2,382
Total               176.537               166.400                 -6



- 48 -
5.3         While total land area decreases slightly after resettlement, land per farm
family increases, with the planned substantial shift to industrial employment (Table 3.3).
In addition, the area of iriated holdings will increase with irrigation developments under
the project, and the effectiveness and reliability of irrigation post-project will be much
higher than on the irrigated land to be lost. A major increase in resettler farm incomes
will be provided by construction of 10,400 mu of fishponds under the project (of which
6,000 mu in Wenmengtan) where soil and water conditions permit, supported by planned
material distribution (hatchery fry and feed), credit, training and extension programs for
the resett}ers. Similar agricultural support programs are also planned for orchard
development (fruit production) and for shifts in field cropping from current extremely low-
value staples (millet, tubers) to cotton and other cash crops. A planned shift of only 10
to 15 percent of gross area from grains and oilseeds to cash crops (including apples, pears,
and dates) should increase farm incomes by 30 to 40 percent.
5.4         Markets. All fish in China are sold on free markets and there are no price
controls. In the project's inland, semi-arid region, demand for fish far outstrips supply,
resulting in prices (Y 7-10/kg) far higher than in areas nearer the coast, and that demand
is increasing at rates above income growth, so that local prices are not projected to decline.
Fruit is also subject to a totally liberalized market, but here supply is projected to increase
quicldy enough to reduce real prices over time, still, however, providing a reasonable
margin for local growers. Grain prices are now generally equivalent to world market
analogues, and increasingly market-deterined in China, with wheat, corn, and soybeans
now providing much better returns than traditional subsistence grains. Cotton and other
cash crop prices, controlled by national and local governments respectively, have in recent
years been raised by the controlling authorities to levels providing strong incentives to
plant, indeed to switch from other crops to them.
5.5         Retums from Agrkultural Development. The economic rates of return
for land and irrigation development range from 19 percent for the Houhe component to
16 percent for the Wenmengtan component and 11 percent for the Mengjin scheme. A
total of 37,360 resettler farmers (109,900 people) will be resettled into full-time farming
(one full-time job), generating family incomes from farming alone that at least equal those
now received by the great bulk of prospective resettlers who are semisubsistence farmers
(Annex 9. The substantial increases in family incomes projected for resettlers are linked
to the intensive industrialization program planned, and now staring, in the resettlement
region (para. 3.22). Fmally, the major sources of improved agricultural incomes derive
from relatively long-lived investments (fishponds and orchards) with substantial gestation
periods before fu}l potential is achieved, about two to three years for fish culture, five
years for fruit trees, with heavy investment and worldng capital requirements in the initial
years (e.g., for fry/fingerlings, feed, ferilizer). Farm budgets show a decline in farm
incomes of 5 to 10 percent in the first and second years after resettlement, if those new
activities are not started until after resetdement takes place. In reality, this will be
compensated for by allowing family members to begin work in the new areas before
official resettlement dates, and to continue farming old areas after such dates, right up to
the eventual time of inundation  para. 3.11), giving agricultural resettler families
essentially two farms to crop for a period of at least one, and frequently two or more



49 -
years. Irrigated agriculture is so well-known to these excellent farmers that full benefits
from irgation will be achieved virtuay from the first inigated crop.
5.6         No benefits have been assumed from reservoir fisheries. The summer
growing period of fish coincides with the heavily sedimented flood flows of the Yellow
River. Virtually no fish species of any commercial interest can survive water of this
quality. Similary, there is now negligible commercial fishenes in the nver to be
compensated for.
B. INDUSTRLAL LIVELOOD DEVELOPMENr
5.7         A fairly massive rural indust on program (paras. 3.22-3.26) has been
planned for the resettement areas, and indeed has commenced, startng in 1992. YRCC
and the affected provinces and local jurisdictions early on saw the necessity of the
resettlement program as an opportunity to accelerate a process in any event necessary to
lift the resettler and host populations out of relative poverty, through a substantial shift
from agicultural to industrial employment. Investment proposals were first sought from
the major state, province, and county-owned entexprises in the region, and the larger
existing TVEs and State Farm-owned enterprises, particularly to ensure rapid start-up of
new plans and viable employment of resettler family members (particularly younger
people, under age 30) in them, if possible even before resettlement has taken place.
Although in general the Bank Group counsels borrowers (mcluding China) to reduce the
level of government involvement in planning industial development, in this case the
government planning process has probably been useful in directing stable, long-term
employment generation to specific affected regions and populations.
5.8         Emphasiing large existing (e.g., mainly COE) enterprises as sponsors of
the first wave (1993-96) of industrial investments has had the following advantages:
(a) Projects have been designed by large, experienced, technically proficient
company staff groups, and reviewed by successive layers of industrial and
financial bureaus similarly experienced. For example, in this mountainous
region nearly half the approved projects involve the mining or quarrymng of
coal, stone and building materials, and metallic or ferilizer minerals, and
their subsequent processing. Shanxi and Henan are, respectively, the two
largest coal-mining provinces of China, each producing more coal than any
country of Western Europe (before the reunification of Germany), and
together producing more than such world-ranked producers as Poland, India,
Australia, or South Africa. While slightly behind the most industrialized
countries in the most modern forms of mechanization technology, the
competence of the technical apparatus in these two provinces, in
semimechanized, labor-intensive methods of resource extraction, is probably
second to none.
(b) Early use of existing enterprises to generate the first phase of industrial
employment eliminates delays and uncertainties conceniing company



-50 -
establishment, recrnitment of managerial and technical staff, and
establishment of market networks of suppliers and customers.
(c)   Large, existing enterprises provide a relatively high level of financial
security, and make relatively small demands on resettlement program
budgets. Due to their existing cash flows (all approved investmnents are by
profit-making enterprises), the 25 COE investments (Annex 9. reviewed ii
detail project 39 percent self-financing (including county equity
contributions) of investment costs, 51 percent financing through loans from
the People's Construction Bank of China, and only 10 percent financing
through resettlement loans on the basis of resettler employment para 3.25).
The debt-equity ratio of 1.7:1 is considered adequate, indeed far better than
most industrial or commercial agriculture investments financed under Bank
Group-supported credit programs in China heretofore, or the financial
covenants associated with them.
5.9         Of the nearly 30 large industrial projects analyzed in detail by IDA's
industrial consultants, which would in total employ more than 80 percent of the total
resettler employment projected for the COE sector, the average financial rate of return
projected is 32 percent, with a range from 7 percent to over 100 percent. Projects
economic rates of return (ERRs) are generally higher (by an average of 13 points) due to
shadow pricing of labor and some remaining price distortions. Aside from the lowest
ranked proposal (a cement plant whose fortunes may improve with construction of
Xiaolangdi Dam), the next lowest (one of several construction ceramics investments)
projects an 18 percent financial retum, with all others over 20 percent. Operational cash
flows generally turn positive after two years, with all loans repaid within four to five years
of project start-up. Even if, as is likely, some of the feasibility proposals and plans prove
optimistic, the great bulk are robust enough to withstand significant shortfalls. Many more
large projects (these average Y 29.4 million or $5.1 million in total cost) are now being
proposed, so that if the authorities continue to show the same prudence and selectivity they
have thus far, planned targets for relatively large-scale industrial employment of resetders
(and hosts) are likely to be met and maintained, on or ahead of schedule.
5.10        Industrial Project Selection Procedures. Most of the large industrial
investments discussed above do not fall under the purview of CROs (to reject or approve
investments) as a matter of policy, since resettlement monies constitute less than 15 percent
of total cost.- CROs' role in such investments is the negoiation, contracting, and
monitoring of resettler employment. These investments are, however, reviewed in detail
by the normal hierarchy of agencies involved in reviewing industrial investments: bureaus
of industry, TVEs, planning and economy, and others. Until recently, the ceiling levels
of investment for final approval by level of jurisdiction were Y 200,000 for townships, Y 3
million for counties, Y 30 million for prefectures, and Y 50 million for provinces, with
larger investments finally referred to national agencies. With ongoing decentralization,
prefectures and provinces are now being given even higher levels of approval authority.
For projects using higher levels of resettlement funding (over 15 percent), approval
authority lies with resettlement offices, but at much higher levels of jurisdiction, e.g.,



-51 -
Y 200,000 for CROs, Y 500,000 for prefecture resettement offices, and over Y 500,000
for provincial resetdement offices. While projects with resettlement funding of over
15 pacent of total cost are much smaller than the others in the livelihood development
program, the fact remains that resetdement offices have litde industrial exwpertise of their
own. Therefore, assurances were obtained at negoiatons that the Borrower shall ensure
that (a) all necessary governmal project approvals for industnal projects under the
Project are obtained pnor to the approval of resettkment funding by the rlevant
resettlement office; (b) YRCC shall employ industra consultants acceptable to the
Assodadon to review on a semi-annual basis the proposed indusial projects under the
Project andfunismh promptly to the Associton the repon of each such review along with
the recommendaions forfollow up action, and (c) YRCC shal implement such foUlow up
actions as are agreed with the Associaion.
5.11        Small Industrial Projects. While the larger-scale industrial development
program is off to a fast start, and will predominate in 1994-96 to ensure a solid base of
new industrial employment for the resers and resettlement areas, the plan is for smaller-
scale industialization (virtually all TVEs and prvate enterpnses) to predominate in
subsequent years. While risider, and less susceptible to forward planning by government
agencies, this plan offers many advantages, aside from being in accord with general
Chinese industral reform policy. TVE proposals identified (including eight in operation)
thus far are characterized by great flexibility (those in operation have quickly modified
their original plans), higher labor intensity, much lower investment per job (Y 8,400 per
job as opposed to Y 76,000 per job for the larger investments), quick payoff, and make
use of the entrepreneurial abilities as well as the funds of the resetdlers themselves. Given
their drawbacks-low levels of technical and managerial capability and mainly lack of
security-they appear to provide a balanced package together with the large investment
program.  The eight established thus far-in brick-making, metl fabrication, and
conistruction-ar all profitable, are paying slightly higher wages than the COEs in
operation (about Y 200 per month as opposed to Y 150), and some have paid off their
initial investment (averaging Y 610,000 or about $100,000) in less than one year.
C. TOTAL INCOME DEVEOPMET
5.12       Industdal development investment proposals, including large-scale and TVE
investments, already exceed the target number of about 20,500 new industrial jobs for
project resettlers. In addition, many new jobs have already been created by even smaller
investments (e.g., in commercil activities) by the resettlers themselves, using the surplus
of their (thus far) rather generous housing and immovable asset compensation payments
over the costs of their new settdements. These activities are usually caW "sidelinew
activities, are categoized together with agricultural income, are private, and thus quite
naturally are not well accounted for by government agencies. In sum, nonagricultural
employment is quite certain to exceed official targets. Nevertheless, for purposes of total
income projection, only the target of one industrial job per family has been included in the
total income projection.



- 52 -
5.13        Table 5.2 gives current and projected total incomes (agricultmal and
industrial) for various project areas, in constant price terms, for resettler and host
populations, due solely to project activities. For resettlers, the average per capita income
growth is 6.1 percent per year, for host populations less (2.4 percent). This is not
particularly rapid compared to recent income increases in China's booming coastal areas,
but it is faster than recent income growth rates of China's rural population. These
calculations exclude nonproject developments raising the general level of Chinese personal
income, including, in particular, migration of worldng-age people to the coastal areas. In
generaL, however, it seems fairly certain that neither resettlers nor hosts will suffer reduced
incomes, beyond at most a short (1-2 year) transition period, due to the Xiaolangdi
resettlement program, and that average incomes will increase faster ta  the local
population unaffected by resettlement.
-D. PROjr RISKs
5.14        The major risks -are the possible lack of timeliness of annual counterpart
funds for the project and the failure to achieve resettler or host livelihood targets in tems
of incomes or jobs as a result of lack of viability of some of the sites and industries in the
outer years of resettlement. In order to ensure the timeliness of budget, the Government
is required to set up a revolving fund with three months' equivalent of local counterart
funding within the first year of the project. Over the longer term, MWR will have a
special Reservoir Area Support Fund, established from power sales revenues, which would
guarantee minimum incomes to households that are unable to satisfy their needs due to
farm and nonfarm livelihood failures. If industrial units go bankrupt, the agreements
signed in advance provide for relocatees to be compensated or integrated into other units.
In addition, if sites are not viable, alternative sites have been identified which will act as
safety nets.



-53 -
Table 5.2: FAmiLY INCOM  PRE- AN  Posr-RSErnEmNr FOR
RESFruS AND Hom
(1993 Yuan/year)
Pre-       Income        Post-
resettlement   growth    resettlement
(1993)     (2 p.a.)     (2000-10)
Resettlers
Average income                   2,555    (580)    5.0    4,160    (946)
Houhe - Low income               2,542    (577)    6.1    3,520    (800)
Medium income            2,668    (606)    2.6    3,440    (782)
High income              3,950    (900)    2.7    6,680  (1,520)
Jiyuan Within County             2,974    (676)    3.0    3,652    (830)
Within Township           3,110    (707)    8.0    4,936  (1,122)
To Wenmengtan             3,420    (777)-   2.8    4,380    (996)
Mengjin Within County 1          2,591    (589)    3.6    3,674    (835)
Within Township          2,538    (577)    3.6    3,616    (822)
Xinan Within County              2,590    (589)    6.0    4,370    (993)
To Wenmengtan              2,200    (500)    8.0    4,390    (998)
To Kaifeng etc.            1,973    (448)    8.4    3,475    (789)
To Zhongmu                 2,310    (525)   15.2    6,221  (1,414)
To Yuanyang                2,142    (487)    8.9    5,016  (1,140)
Misachi Within County            1,819    (413)    5.3    3,050    (693)
Shanxian Within Township         1,559    (354)    5.9    2,334    (530)
Yuanqu Within County             2,952    (671)    4.3    4,144    (942)
Xiaxian/Pinglu Within County    2,376    (540)    5.0    3,888    (883)
AVERAGE VALUES             2,477    (562)    6.1    4,055    (921)
Host ImDact
Houhe (average income)           2,534    (576)   12.2    4,501  (1,023)
Jiyuan Within County             3,361    (764)    2.9    4,117    (935)
Within Township           4,527  (1,029)    1.2    4,936  (1,122)
In Wenmengtan             3,550    (806)    0.8    3,840    (872)
Mengjin Within County 1          2,534    (576)    1.8    3,022    (687)
Within County 2          2,978    (677)    0.7    3,185    (724)
Within Township          2,591    (589)    3.1    3,506    (797)
Xinan Within County              2,660    (604)    0.9    2,890    (656)
In Wenmengtan              3,550    (806)    0.8    3,840    (872)
In Kaifeng etc.            4,497  (1,022)    2.9    5,509  (1,252)
In Zhongmu                 3,665    (833)    4.1    4,857  (1,104)
To Yuanyang                5,280  (1,200)    0.2    5,341  (1,214)
Mianchi Within County            2,433    (553)    1.2    2,648    (602)
Shanxian Within Township         2,518    (572)    0.1    2,560    (582)
Yuanqu Within County             3,071    (698)    1.9    3,506    (797)
Xiaxian/Pinglu Within County    3,265        742    2.5    3,871    (879)
AVERAGE VALUES             3,286    (747)    2.4    3,978    (904)
Note: Figures in parentheses denote per capita incomes. For details, see Annex 8.



- 54 -
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        The following agreements were obtained at negotiations. The Borrower will:
(a)   publicize resettlement grievance procedures (paa. 3.35);
(b)  implement the Resettlement Plan in a manner acceptable to the Association
according to criteria given in Box 1, page 13 (para. 3.38);
(c)   ensure that construction and filling of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam,
execution of the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Program, and completion of major
agicultural resetdement works (Houhe Dam and Wenmengtan agricultural
area) are appropnately synchronized in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para.
3.38);
(d)   establish by November 30, 1994 and thereafter maintain with a balance of
not less than the equivalent of three months' estimated noncredit project
expendiures (initially Y 30 million), a revolving fund to finance aU
expenditures under the project that are to be financed out of the Borrower's
budgetary funds, if there is a delay in the availability of such funds (para.
3.47);
(e)   cause YRCCRO to maintain consolidated project accounts, which would be
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (para. 3.49);
(f)   (i) ensure that aU activities under the Project comply with environmental
standards and guidelines satisfactory to the Association; (ii) implement the
Environmental Management Plan in a manner acceptable to the Association,
mcluding measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse environmental
impacts; (iii) prepare and furnish to the Association by December 15 the
annual EMP plan for implementation; and (iv) maintain YRCC's
environmental management office with competent staff in adequate numbers
and with responsibilities and functions acceptable to the Association (para.
3.53);
(g) cause YRCCRO to retain the Reconnaissance Planning and Design Institute
of YRCC to complete all final resettlement program designs and to review
all final provincial and county resettlement site designs (para. 4.2);



- 55 -
(h)   ensure that all taining and technical assistance under the project, including
local and overseas trainn, study tours and consultants' services are carried
out in accordance with a program satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.9);
(i)   (i) maintain the reselement office of MWR, to be responsible for the
overall implementation of the Project, and the resettlement office of YRCC,
to be responsible for daily implementation of the Project; (ii) cause the
Project Provinces to maintain their repective Provincial resetdement offices
and prefectual and county resettlement offices; and (iii) maintain the
Central Leading Group and the provincial leading groups with composition
and finctions satisfatory to the Association (para. 4.10);
(j)   furnish to IDA by December 15 in each year the work program and the
financing plan for implementing the portion of the project to be carried out
during the following calendar year, and would undertake a mid-term review
with IDA by June 30, 1996 (para. 4.15);
(k) (1) continue to employ an independent monitoring institution acceptable to
the Association to evaluate at least semi-annually during Project
implementation the socioeconomic progress of those resettled and those in
host communities who are affected by such resettlement; and (ii) furnish to
the Association for comment the report of each such evaluation along with
proposals for meeting Project targets (pam. 4.16);
(1)   (1) employ an international Environment and Resettlement Panel of
independent experts with composition and functions satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) furnish promptly to the Association the findings and
recommendations of the Panel for follow-up actions; and (iii) implement all
recommendations for follow-up action as are agreed with the Association
(pam. 4.17);
(m)  employ a dam safety panel for Houhe Dam and monitor its design,
construction, and maintenance according to procedures agreed with IDA
(para. 4.18);
(n)   acting through MWR, establish a Reservoir Area Support Fund to guarantee
maintenance of incomes of resettlers and hosts and operate such Fund until
no longer necessary (pam. 4.25); and
(o) ensure that (i) all necessary governmental project approvals for industrial
projects under the Project are obtained prior to the approval by the relevant
resettlement office of resettlement funding; (ii) YRCC shall employ
industral consultants acceptable to the Association to review on a semi-
annual basis the proposed industrial projects under the Project and furnish
promptly to the Association the report of each such review along with the



-56 -
recommendations for fo}low up action; and (iii) YRCC shall implement such
follow up actions as ae agreed with the Association (Iau. 5.10).
6.2         There are two conditions of Creit effectiveness: (a) approval of the Credit
Agreement by the Borrower's State Council; and (b) cross-effectiveness with the Loan
Agreement for the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project.
6.3         Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a credit of
SDR 79.9 million ($110 mfllion equivalent) to the People's Republic of China. The credit
would carry standard IMA terms with 35 years' matunty.



COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVES TO THE XIAOLANGDI PROJECT
Af~
No art 7pne      TYP ha _d_o                      _                                               qem
Lao. V.11.33.w tdsh  Fhoa I*e uto enb ba  m       cmmos* lad popde" d  mi     N~1.Oa
XMNo              Floo domi           3SOG        LIAdW wow  kw .V* bad w
T_O&Oqp 0 Rhlo    Now am *mm _Wh3     23,0           udw 1oad   he own Eobo    NodIa __
sslm
C    1  U 
LAW Yevaw Rlis   1   l.lo  S al_ AAt  "km         Ntlo id  ud                  Blbod. _  o
D      W      hLupmbwu&m brn                          Nad 30N Good Wuba   _m             dlb e
BNew an d 3amw4
Xhdm              DM wd m.v            8,3        AiMadd.  etl .    aUnb n    Coaub 909 .tu   lose  lk kwMAd. amby
kWm mad.. loof hdaf Ito mmn    ompinos het 2 to 25 ko^h   maw= siusto am I.di
ofEstal he33 dInd lo & as . n oma   podod.Fo venot ur, SO you%aby ti  - iwV66% 5.3 .M0
_ _   _     b~~~~~~~~6 og"mbe2k5mod_25
r~~~~~~~~ns ~aS. Od Is _ts r_.b ad.. 
_dh-b25s.~ ~



-58 -                          ANX 2
RESETLEMNT POLICY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Background
In China where since 1950 over 10 million people have been resetded for the
purpose of water conservancy projects, a policy and legal framework has been developed
over the years. A number of laws relate to resettlement and several regulaions have been
decreed to improve planning and implementation.
CIhnese Laws Tat Pertain to Resettlement
I. The Law of Land Management, PRC, 1987
The Law of Land Management can be regarded as the ficst State land use planning
law of the PRC; it deals with land ownership rights, land use rights, land
utilizaion, land protection, control over land for construction at state level and also
in xiangs and viMlages, and assigns legl responsibilities for the implementation of
the law.
Section Four of the Law deals with land used for State construction; its provisions
expand on previous regulations in this regard and relate them to the new law
management structe. Two principles contained in Section Four are important
Transfer from agricultural to nonagricultural registration (Article 31): Units
who lose all of their land may transfer agncultural registered people to
nonagricultural registration.
Increase of resettlement subsidy (Article 29): If normal land compesation
and resettlement subsidy stipulated by the State will not enable resetted
farmers to maintain their previous standard of living, the resettlement
compensation and subsidy may be increased to a maximum of 20 times the
average annual output value of the requisitioned land.
The Law does not mention any special arrangement related to the reallocation of
existing contracted land to affetd and host farmers as a result of intensification
of existing land for resetdement sites.
Article 32 sets out the special treatment which applies to the Xiaolangdi Project:
fte standard of compensation and the relocation regulations of land requisition of
large and medium water conservancy and hydraulic projects wil be stipulated by
the Stat Council.



-59-                           M
I}. Water Law of the People's Republic of China, 1988
The Water Law (Decwe No. 61) deals with principles for the development,
uiliztion, protecdon and control of water resources. Plans for development should
be in coordination with the National Land Plan and consider the demands of various
regons.
Article 23 states that 'when there is a need for relocation of inhabitants for a State
water project, the local govemnment shall be responsible for the proper anrangement
of the livelihood and production of relocatees. The funds needed for resettlement
shall be included in the investment olan of the project, and the resettlement work
shall be completed within the constmction stage according to schedule."
m. The Enviornmental Protection Law, PRC, 1979
The Evironmental Protecton Law stipulates that large and medium sized water
consency projects must undertake environmental impact studies as part of the
feasibility studies. This includes an assessment of the socioeconomic impacts of
inundation and proposed resettlement. Regulations for Environmental Assessment
and Impact Statement of Water Resource Projects became effective in October 1981
and are administered by the Mnistry of Environmental Protection.  Other
regulations have been developed to deal with environmental standards for drining
water, waste management, industrial effluent, soil and water conservation, etc. For
reidential reconstruction, standards are set by the Ministry of Urban and Rural
Consruction.  Volume X  of the Project Brief (Annex 17  presents the
environmental assessment of the Xiaolangdi Project.
Regulatloas for Projects With Resemet Components
Chinese laws are transformed into actions through the development of more specific
reguations that can be followed by the relevant ministries and departments. The following
reglations pertain to resettement:
I. Regulation for Land Requisition Compensation and Resettlement of Iarge and
Medium Water Conservancy and Hydroelectric Projects (hereafter referred to as
"The Regulation') issued by the State Council in Decree No. 74, May 1, 1991.
These are guidelines for MWR to follow.
The Regulation, based on the Law of Land Management and the Water Law,
identifies compensation and resettement principles, compensation standards for land
requisition, resettlement planning and implementation, as well as legal
responsibilities. The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) or the Mnistry of
Energy (MOE) are empowered to carry out this regulation. Some feaues of the
Regulation are of particular importance:



-60-                          ANNEX 2
The State encourages and supports 'resettement with development by'
means of compensaion and subsidy in the initi  stage, and production
support in the late stage.
It requires to properly deal with the relationship between State, collectives
and individuals. Both original and host areas shall be subordinated to the
overall interests of the State.
Resettlement shall make relocatees recover or surpass the existing living
levels through construcdon, resources exploitation, soil conservancy and
economic development of the reservoir region.
Units who lose their land completely can transfer their regisations from
farmer to nonfarm restration as reviewed and approved by provincial and
county governments.
If the compensation for land and resetdement calculated on the basis of the
Regulation makes it difficult to meet needs, the resetdtement subsidy may be
increased to some extent.
The Regulation does not mention any special arrangement related to the
development of wasteland and floodplains, the intensification of existing
land, and reallocation of already conctd land to affected and host
farmers. New legal arrangements are required to pennit appropriate
adjustment to contrctual land, uncultivated land and grass slopes in the host
areas.
II. Design Standards for Inundation of Reservoirs, Ministry of Water Resources
(December 31, 1984)
The Design Standards provide comprehensive guidance on:
-    Identification of Scope of Inundation Arrangements
-    Design Stage, Design Contents, Division of Work and Collabomtion
-    Relocation of People and Arrangements for Inundated Items
-     Comprehensive Development Plan and Requirements for Reservoir Clearing
-     Calculation of Compensation Cost for Inundation Arrangements
m. Selected Conventional Laws and Regulations for Inundation Arangements and
Land Requisition of Hydroelectric Projects, edited by Hydroelectric Planning and
Desig Management Bureau, March 1989



-61 -                          AN=  2
IV. Deta    Rules for Inundated Assets Invesdgation of Hydrological Project,
MWR, 1986
V. Pinciples for Village and Town Planning, National Agricultal Commission,
Natonal Conscion Commission, 1992
VI. Methods of Financial Management of   ement Funds, MWR, 1989
VIL Rgulatons issued by other authorities (e.g., provincial governments).



-62 -                         AN=  3
INUNDATION IMPACTS
Table 1: SUMMARY OF XIhOLANGDI PROJECT IeACTS
laoluangdi Reservoir Impacts
Total Reservoir Surface Area                                       272 knm2
Length of Reservoir                                                 130 km
Inundated Land Area                                             366,000 mu
Inundated Cultivated Land (50%)                                 183,000 mu
Per Capita Cultivated Land                                          1.0 mu
Population Affected (1991)                                          150,172
Population Affected (moving year)                                   171,118
Population as a percent of County population                          5.1%
Inundated Housing                                             4.6 million mn2
Number of Affected Townships (Xiangs)                                   30
Number of Affected Administraive Villages                              173
Xiaolangdi Constuction Zone lnpacts
Requisitioned Land Area (22 lkn)                                 33,500 mu
Requisitioned Cultivated Land (60%)                              20,000 mu
Per Capita Cultivated Land                                          2.0 mu
Population Affected (1990)                                           9,556
Population Affected (moving year)                                    9,944
Population as a percent of County population                          1.1%
Inundated Housing                                             0.3 million n2
Number of Affected Townships (Xiangs)                                    6
Number of Affected Administrative Villages                              19



EBflAEBS OF POPULATION TO as BBICA'TED
I            Directly  Share of people moving by Year:                                     Total Population to be Moved by Year ('0003                        |   Totel
|IeRee vo freAffected  --------------------------------------------------------------       ----------ff----------------------------te-----  --------------         ----      o ulto
couti't   Ijavele   Population  1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000             2010 2011  1992 1993 2994 1995 1996 .1997 199S  1999 2000           2010 2011 Ito be Moved
(1991)                                                                                                                                           (2011)
Jiyuan    DM Site*          44S6   67t  23%  10%                                                       3.1  1.1  0.5  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0               4637
ISO"          6241         250  251  25S  25%                                           0.0  1.6  1.6  1.7  1.7  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4 I             6601
26CS         19249                               25%  2S*  25%  250                     0.0  4.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  S.3  5.4  5.5  5.5  0.0  0.0  0.0:             21736
275S          1676                                                           SO%  s0%  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.1  1.1                2168
Total                   31522                                                                      3.1  2.7  2.1  1.7  1.7  S.3 .     .4  S.S  S.S  0.0  1.1  1.1 I        35142
........  ....... .. .................................._. I..--------------------....---    ...............................................  -*--------
Wngin   DaM aite             5100   670  234  10*                                                      3.5  1.3  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0               5307
IS"0          1593         25, 25%  25a   25%                                           0.0  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0               W.6SS
265W          6091                               2SS  25%  25%  25%                     0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.2  2.3  2.3  2.3  0.0  0.0  0.0               9136
275S           996                                                           50*  SO   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.7  0.7               1370
Total                   15760                                                                      3.5  1.7  1.0  0.4  0.4  2.2  2.3  2.3  2.3  0.0  0.7  0.7              17498
, _........ ........................................... ........_,_,___. . _*t__._._......................... ,,..._.__......_.._,......... .___ ........__
Zinan         IS=          12672          25%  25S  25%  2S%                                           0.0  3.3  3.3  3.4  3.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0             13403
265W         S1389                               25%  2     25*  2S*                    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 14.2 14.4 14.6 14.6  0.0  0.0  0.0              58028
275t          5671                                                           50%  50%  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  3.9  3.9                7800
Total                   69732                                                                      0.0  3.3  3.3  3.4  3.4 14.2 14.4 14.6 14.8  0.0  3.9  3.9              79232        w
MUnchi        lSON              0                                                                     0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0                   0
265"          9836                               25%  25%  2S%  2S%                     0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.7  2.6  2.0  2.8  0.0  0.0  0.0              11107
275W          1189                                                           So%  S0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.8  0.0 .              1635
Tatel                   11025                                                                      0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.7  2.6  2.0  2.8  0.0  0.8  0.8 1            12742
___ .......__.._._.,.........._._.--*,*__.............._._____.___*_**__*--*_**-.*____**-,*-,._.--___,___.*_,_._.___,_.__.____,___*_._____._-._._.,,_,-_-_-_---_
Shadan       101t              0                                                                     0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0                  0
265)           145                                               100%                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0 4              165-
275M           615                                                           SO%  S0%  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.4                 846
Total                     760                                                                      0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.0  0.4  0.,               1011
* . C *~***~...........                                         .......        .............. ..... ........ ......  .........
Konen      Dan site         9596                                                                      6.6  2.3  1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0               9 9944
Provinoe      180M         20S06                                                                      0.0  S.3  5.4  5.5  9.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 |            21690
26SM         68710                                                                      0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 24.4 24.6 2S.2 2S.7  0.0  0.0  0.0 |    100172
27SW         10047                                                                      0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  6.9  7.0              13819
State             813                                           s0o  s0o                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0 I              013
warkr                                                                                                                                                       I
Total                  129632                                                                      6.6  7.6  6.4  S.5  5.5 24.4 24.8 25.6 26.1  0.0  6.9  7.0 |    146438    Cl.
a         2...................................g............................... ............ -                                 ...... ..............    .               . ......
Page I Of 2



ESTIMATUS OF POPULATION TO BE R3XCATBD
Directly  OMar of people MOVing by YeaW2                                  Total Popuilation to t~e Maved by Year ('COO)                      Total
coNTV     Levela   Populetlon  1992 1993 1994 199S 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000          2010 2011  1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1991 1998 1999 2000         2010 2011 Ito_be_Moved
(1991)                                                                                                                              .1   (2011)
Yuaniqu      18014            0.0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.                                                                         000 0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.00
26514       25949                              25%  25%  25%  25                    0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  7.1  7.3  7.4  7.5  0.0  0.0  :0.0         29220
27514        2558                                                        so%  50%  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  1.7  1.8             49
Total                  2850?                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  7.1  7.3~ 7.4  7.5  0.0  1.7  1.8          3,1713
-- -- --   - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- --   - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- .. . .. .. .. .. .  .. .I.. .. .  .. .. . .
Ziezian     1l0om             0                                                                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 I            0
265S4         339                                        50%  s0t                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0            385
27514          71                                                        50t  s0t  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0              97
Total                    410                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.3  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.0            402
Pingin       10om             0                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0g              0
26514         735                                        s0t  5et                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.40.0000                     835
27514         377                                                        s0t  sot  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.3  0.3             :15
Total                   1112                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.4  0.0  0.3  0.)            150
.............. ...      . . ......            ....... 0.0 ........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*,  *......
Usaxtz      1l0om             0                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0000                      0
Province     265S4        27023                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  7.1  7.3  8.0  8.1  0-0  0.0 0.0 5o,0440
27514        3006                                                                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0. 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.0  2.1           4105
State             47                                             l00t                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0             67
Workers
Total                  20096                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  7.1  7.3  8.0  8.1  0.0  2.0  2.1          346122
.. ....."a...... ..   ........                                  ..................*............. . ......oo.....a..... .... ...
....ae..  ............ ..... ....   ...... .0 ........ . . .... ......... .... .a.              -......................                         ..............   ...-0
TOMAl     O" site          9556                                                                  6.6  2.3  1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0            9944
18014       20506                                                                  0.0  5.3  5.4  5.5  5.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0          21690
26514      115733                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.8 31.6 32.1 33.2 33.800   0.::0  :0.0        130612
27514       13053                                                                  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  00 .9 .0                17924
State            880                                                                   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4  0.5  0.0  0.0  0.0         69180
wtrkers
Total                 159728                                                                  4.6  7.6  6.4  5.5  S.5 31.6 32.1 33.6 34.2  0.0  8.9  9.0         1805
303: -1931 populatice estinAtes by' 13CC are b"ead on 1986 survey.
-Projected annual pROultion growth rate after 1991 is 1.35% int Henan. 1.40% In Shanxci and 3.00% in townse.
0. Ppultion in dam site are  is booed an a 1990 marvey.                                                                                                            0
Page an De2



65-                          ANE 3
Table 3: PRojEr-AECIRD PEOPLE
A) General I ts:                                  Moving Year EPa l
1) Agricultural Registration
people who lose land & house             132,769
people who lose land only                 12,988
(houses above EL 275)
people who lose house only                 4,823
people who lose access to village          3,326
Subtotal                              153,906     67.0Q
2) Nonagricutural Registration
people residing in towns (lose houses)     8,342       7,500
people in fatories, mines & third estate   5,214       3,083
teachers & retired workers in
rurl areas (lose houses)                 2,736        550
people in institutions (forest stations)
outside towns                              40          20
people in institutions run by province       880        474
Subtotal                              17.212      11,627
:iotal Dincfly Affected               171,118     71
B) Liveihoods
Moving Year
1) Agricultural Registration
primarily in farming(with sidelines)     119,265      37,109
county enterprises (contract workers)      3,026       3,026
township enterprises                       2,145       2,145
farmers with temporary nonfam income      21,321      21,321
Subtotal                             145,757      63.601
(people who only lose houses or access)    8,149       3,399
Subtotal                              153.96       7000



- 66 -                        ANNEX 3
Table 3: (cont'd)
Mmdn& yz
2) Nonagricultural Registration
teachers in rural areas                       550         550
retired workers                             2,186           0
xiang administrators (cadres)               8,382       7,520
township enterprises (factoiies and mines)  1,328         896
county-run state entepises (factories,
mines & commerce)                         3,886       2,187
provincial run institutions                   880         474
Subtotal                                17.212      11,62
Total                                               2 2171,118  B.627



-67 -                         ANNEX
Table 4: SPATIAL ORGANMATION OF RESERVOIR ARE  POPULATION
Average
Affected
Number       Type of Unit      Population
8        Counties           18,770
30   Xiangs (rownships)        5000
173  Administrative VilLages     870
379     Natural Village          400
872    Residential Groups        170
31,951       Households             4.7
150,1721       Persons
Note: 1991 population.



-68-                           AN]NEX3
Table $: Land Area by Type to be Inundated
Type of Land                       Total Area         Percent        Percent
Total Inundated Area              408,485            100.0
Cultivated Land                 183,281            44.9          100.0
A     1.Irigated                        84,384                           46.0
2.Dryiand                        82,099                           44.8
3.Floodplain                     11,864                            6.5
4. Vegetable Plot                 4,934                            2.7
GCarden                           5,765             1.4
B      I.Orchard                        4,695  _
2.Other Garden                    1,070_
Forestry                         39,718             9.7          100.0
1.Timber Forest                  31,218                           78.6
-Mature                          12,793                        _
C     -Young                           18,425
2.E3cononic Trees                 1,165 _                          2.9
3.Fuel Forest                     4,436                           11.2
4.Nursery                         2,899                            7.3
Ponds                              645              0.2
D      I.Fish Pond                        419
2.Weed Pond                        226                       ,         ;
E     Threshing Space                   5,388              1.3 _
F     Reidenti Areas                    14,832             3.6  -
o     Grass Land                       49,191             12.0 _
H     Waste Slopes                     53,059             13.0
I     Roads                             13,903             3.4       _
I     Water Surface                    42,703             10.5
Source: YRCC Invesdgation in 1991.



-69-                         ANNX 3
Table 6: RURAL HOUSIG AREA BY TYE TO B INUAD, 991
Henan      Shanmd      Total
1. Main House Area (1,000 m)           2,824         558      3,382
per capita (m)                     28.9       21.0       27.2
of which:
1 storey brick/timber            13.2%      14.7%       13.4%
2 storey brick/timber             4.8%       12.8%       6.1%
I storey earth/timber             5.6%      15.1%       7.2%
2 storey earth/timber             4.3%       14.8%       6.0%
Brick cave                       31.7%       12.3%      28.5%
Earth cave                       39.6%       30.3%      38.1%
(Prefabricated)                   0.8%       0.0%        0.7%
2. Auxiliary House Area (1,000 m2)       432         155        587
per capita (m2)                     4.4        5.8        4.7
3. Total House Area (1,000 ra)         3,256         712      3,968
per capita (m>)                    33.3       26.8       31.9
of which:
buiding area                     30.4%       58.6%      35.5%
cave area                        69.6%       41.4%      64.5%
Rural Housing Population (1,000)        97.8        26.6      124.4
Source: YRCC Investigation in 1986 and 1991.



Table 7: EDUCATIONAL. CULTURAL AND HEALTH FACILITIES TO BE INUNDATED
Unit for Cost: 10000 RMB yuan
Educational facility                          Health facility        _ _Cultural Facility
Water   School     Middle    Training       Cost      Small    Clinic    Health       Cost    Cinema   Library   Cultural    Cost
Level              School     Center  IY 10000)    Hospital             Station    IY 10000)                     Center (Y I 0000)
275        7          5          0    106.158           1        6         1     26.2452          2        0         7  18.1789
(Meng_n)
180(Jiyuanl     10          6           0   212.7719          1       11          1     28.9074          1       1        1   10.9608
180 (Xinan)     15          4           0   126.4663          0       12         0       8.5474         0        0        12   6.2767
Total      32         15          0   445.4232          2        29         2         63.7         3        1       30  35:6174
04
:1



Table 8: INFRASTRUC LURE TO BE INUNDATED
*tem                  Unit     Agegate   Total In    _duan       Meng#n      Xban      Mianchi     Shenatn    Total in    Yuanqu     Xamien     Pigu
Henan                                                            Shanco
Numbe      Lin            131       too        42           7        29          10          12        31          25          1     5
Total                                                                                                            -          -     
Rood            _         Loth       km          687.80    535.00    174.00       60.10    181.90        72.0        47.0   15208         12..3         2    24.5
Cowut          Numbe      Line            10         87                                             _                  1r
Road                                                                                                                -          -          -.. .     
P__d__         Length    km            88.20     65.30      30.30                             25.0                 32.90        32.9
County-        Numbet    kne              22    t    8         8           I         a          2            1         1           2                2
aegRood                                                   -                                                                                   
Lnth      km           215.86    172.80     82.80      62.80      84.40       10.0         10.5     39.65       27.8                12.45
jdanVma        Numbw      Line            99        73        27           6        23          6           I t       26          22          1
._______ RdLength         Km           383.75    303.55      80.9        61.6     97.60       37.0         36.6     80.25       65.8          2
35 Kv Subetaton           No.              2         1                               1                                 1          1                 4
Power      35 Xv Trene Line         km            34.30     27.00                           27.00                              7.30        7.30               17.50
Lk                          -         -                      -                               -  
Numbr      LUn              83        44         20          4         9           8           3        39          35               17.50
10Kv Om_e
ength       km          503.20    362.70       70.7       60.3    154.60        71.1          6.0   140.60       123.0                I
Low-voteg Power Line      km         1038.63    698.13       106       05.53    655.00        56.7        11.9    140.50       123.0               5075
-                                                                        -                    -..  
County        Numbe       Li              23        16         7           3         5          1                      7          6                 3
Leth        km          171.77    129.72       20.2      12.00     79.52        18.0                 42.05        36.3                3055
Commui.                                                             
tinee     aleng.VitoeV e   Numbw     LIn            81         63        31          14         6         12                     18         13 2
Line--                                                      ------
__________    Length       km          376.36     319.2      79.2        78.5     61.60      110.0                  57.15       60.8          3
Ovehad LU                 km            2.72      2.72                            2.52         0.2                         _
Embedded Lin"             km           26.00     26.00                 24.00                  2.0
brsdcest Ancny            No.            1          8         1           I         5          1                      3          3
Cout         Nuver       Line             17       t1          4           1         5          I                      6          6
casting    ___________  Length      km           157.40    t16.10       7.5       12.00     78.60       18.0                  41.30       41.3
lnes                        -                  ,             -         -          -          -         -                       -         -           -
dNgVWag    Number        Lin             142       100        36          14        33         12            5        42         39          2     1
__________  Leth          km          707.66    609.80     88.30       89.70    308.80       114.0         9.0    97.75        85.0          3     9.75
TV O tern  Steon                                      5         5                               4          1                              -
....~~ ..                                            -         .     -     4         --                    -      



-72-                                         ANNEXI
Table 9: FACTORIES AmN MINES To BE INuNDAln
Nunber of Enterpus.             Land Covenage (mu)             Nunmbar of EMnloyres
Total   Industry    Mine        Total    Industry    Mies    Total   Indut ty       Mine
I-    -.- -                                               - -                  -          -        -
Henan Prince         80          7         73    2,35.6      104.0  22,447.6   11,303         379     10,924
JIyuma                 6          2         4      112.0        30.0       82.0    1,038        as        9s0
omeain                2          -          2      125.0                 125.0    1,3S3          -      1,3S3
XWan                 68          5         63      189.6       74.0    1,820.6    8,465        291      8,174
Mlachi                3      -             3       190.0          -      190.0      327          -       327
Shanxian              I          .          1      30.0           -       30.0      120          .        120
Shawni Povince       13          2         11      104.8       20,0       84.8    2,452        100      2352
Yuanqu               10          2         8       78.8        20.0       58.8    2,152        100      2,052
Pinglts               3          -         3       26.0           -       26.0      300          -       300
ToWa                 93          9         84    2,456.       124.0   2,332.4   13,7SS         479     13,276
Table 9A: FACORIES AMINES ESTABUS     AND EXANED SINCE 1986
Number of Enprises               Lnd Coverge (mu)               Number of Employee"
Jurdsdictioa                         --                                                          
Totl   Indusry       Minea      Total I nduty         Wines    Toal      ndustry    Wmins
Hemn Prone          is 1S8      53        10S    1,496.5     380.7      1,11S.8   13,S78      2,030    11,S48
IyuYaUt              27          7         20      211.5       63.0      1i8s"     1,598        186     1,412
Menuian              1I-                    I          -         -           -      124           -      124
jIana               125         46         79    1,160.0     317.7       842.3   11,638       1,844    4,794
lMiae                 S                     S      115.0         -        lS1.0     218           -      218
Shanxia            -                                         -    -   -   -
Shmbi P hovince       I                     I     500.0         -       SOO.0   1,100            -    1,100
YU="                  I                     I      SOO.0          -      500.0   1,100            -    1,100
Pinglu             -         -                     -
Toal                159         53        106    1,996.5     380.7      1,615.8   14,678      2,030    12,648



-73 -                                 4
COMPENSATION STANDARDS AND ENTIlTEMENT
COMPENSATION PNCILE
MWR follows compensation regulations based on the Law of Land
Management. This law deals with land ownership nghts, land use rights, land uilizatm,
land protection, control over land for use by the State and Local Govemment, and
assignment of legal responsibilities for implementation of the law. MWR also measures
public and private assets in order to detemine compensation payable to the affected party.
The rates of compensation are set by State and Provincial authorities and some rates can
be negotiated to account for special conditions. Large-scale reservoir inundation creates
a complex set of impacts for the various affected population groups. Table 1 indicates the
compensation principles used by YRCC for the costing and planning of the Blaolangdi
resettement.
In order to ensure that households are compensated fairly, a formal boolet
Of household assets and conditions will be fl  out for each household and signed by the
head of household, local officials and resettlement officials. Since much of the
resetdement is done on a collective basis, the compensation assessed for each household
will be disbursed (a) to the host village (for land requisition) or (b) directly to the
household (housing, moving expenses, cash compensation for lost assets) or (c) to a local
authority that contracts out services on behalf of the relocatees (house coawtion,
transportation, health care).



-74-                               AI1XA
Table 1: SUMMARY OF YRCC BPElrLEMENT COSr ESIM&vAS FoR EL 275
YRCC 1991 CONPENSATION COST
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   (million yuan)
SHANXI HENAN  OTHER   TOTAL
I - RURAL RESETTLEMENT                              309.64  995.21    0.00  1,304.85
1. Land Compensation                              183.69  486.61             670.30
2) Runr residential reconstruction                 109.36  455.48            564.84
- 2.a) Residential Houses                          89.75  379.46            469.21
2.b) Otber Costs                                  19.61   76.02             95.63
3) Smal soe rurd sdelines (ox small mines)           1.44   12.64             14.08
4) Water conervancy compensadon                     15.15   40.48             55.63
II - RELOCATION OF TOWNS                             14.69   45.73    0.00    60.42
1. Residential Houses                               9.30   27.43              36.73
2. Other Costs                                      5.39   18.30              23.69
Im - IUSTRY AND rNFRASTRUCTuRE                       96.35  404.16    0.00   500.51
1) Relocate Factories and Mines                    45.40  266.54             311.94
2) Relocate Special Institutions                    2.13    7.01               9.14
3) Roads & Bridges                                 37.68   97.97             135.65
4) Fetries & Wbar                                    3.01    6.75              9.76
5) Smal Hydro Power                                 0.26     1.40              1.66
6) Electical Trnsmission                            3.06    10.03             13.09
7) Telecommunications Lines                         0.85    2.39               3.24
8) Broadcast Lines                                   1.10    3.93              5.03
9) Reservoir Clearace & Public Hedath               2.86    8.14              11.00
SUBTOTAL FOR ITEMS I, H1 & mH                       420.68  1445.10    0.00  1,865.78
IV - INDIRECT COSTS                                  12.61   43.38   147.15   203.14
1) Planning and Design                              4.20    14.46    0.00    18.66
2) Administration                                    8.41   28.92    0.00    37.33
3) Unspecified Items                                0.00    0.00   9S.15    95.15
4) Monitoring & Supervision                         0.00    0.00    13.00    13.00
5) Setting Up CROs                                  0.00    0.00    13.00    13.00



-75-                               A
YRCC 1991 COMPENSATION COST
(miion yuan)
SHANXI HENAN OTHR  TAL
6) Setting Up YRCC RO                                0.00    0.00    19.00    19.00
7) Tanng                                             0.00    0.00     7.00      7.00
SUBTCTAL FOR ITEMS I, U, Ill & IV                   433.29  1488.48   147.15  2,068.92
V - PROVINCLAL FACILiTIES                            23.73   45.36    12.00    81.09
TOTAL RESERVOIR RESErLEMENT COST                   457.02  1533.83   159.15  2,150.00
Total cost per person (yuan)                     =        =__               12,564
Source: YRCC estimates, November 1992.



- 76 -                               AM= 4
Table 2: COMpEATION PNCamS FOR VARIOUS AFFcED
POPULATION GROUPS
Affected Popdaton               Compesation Entitlement         Resettement Stateg
Categories
A. Agricultural Population
1.  Households with land       Ful compensadon for hous-        Relocafion as a group can be
and house below 275 m      ing, new livelihood and future   more distant
project benefits
2.  Household with land         Ful compensation for new        Relocate household near
below 275 m and house      livelihood nearby (or lso new    existing house
above 275 m                housing) plus fiute prqect
benefits
3.  Households with house       Full compensation for housing   Rebuild house near existing
below 275 m and land       neaby plus futue prect          fanmland
above 275 m                benefits
4.  Households with land        Full compensation for hous-     Provide housing and jobs at
and houe in dam site       ing, new livelihood & fumre     prqect site; return to farm
constnzcon area            project benefits (e.g., return  after
lad after constrcon)
5.  Households with land        Pull compensaton for new        Provide new land or job at
only in dam site con-      livelihood near (or also new    project site; retur to farm
struction area             housing) plus future project    aftr
benefits
6.  Households with land an     Ful compenstion to              Provide new land or job to
new residentiallfactory    reestablish livloods neby       new township or
sites                      and future project
7.  Households (hosts) tOat     Adue compenaton to              Minimize impacts if possible
sbare land with resttles   imov      sting e ime
levels and share future prect
beefits
8.  Households that lose        Adequat compensation to         Avoid or minimize impacts if
acoess to seasoal          re place lost new inoome        Possible
cropland along floodplai
(e.g., Wenmengta)
B. Nonagricultural
9.  Households with house       FUl     sn   for new            Relocate household with townf
and weo:place below        house, job at tdocated or new   eteriso
275 m                      e8nt e plus future project
benefits



- 77 -                               ANNEX4
Table 2: (cont'd
Affected Population             Compensation Entitlement         ResetlementStraSegy
Categories
10. Households with houso       Fult compensation to rebuild    Rebuild house near workplace
below 275 m and work-       new house near exisig
place above 275 m           woklace plus fiute project
benefits
11. Households with work-       Provision of job at relocated    Relocate with town or fictory
place below and house       or new enterprise nearby (or    plus housing if required
above 275 m                 also new house) plus future
project benefits
12. Households with house       FulI compeusation for new       Relocate on project site or to
and workplace within        house, job at rolocated or new  nearest village
dam site construction       entprise plus fiture project
area                        benefits
13. Single temporary work-      euarante to provide             Relocate on project site or to
ers living in factory       tmporary work at relocated      nearest village
housing                     or new enterprise and simila
housing if possible
14. Single tmporary work-       Adequate compensation to        Respnsbility of employer
ers with separte housing    replace lost income or
outside reservoir area      guartee to provide tempo-
rary work on similar basis
C. Ote Populafion
15. Registred family mem-       Ful compensation as awarded
bers temporay residing      to other family members
elswhere (student,
armymen)
16. Registered family mem-      No compensation
bers permanently resid-
ing elsewhere
17. Unregistered members        Full compensation as awarded
who reside prmanenty        to ote member of
household
18. Unregistered members        No compensaton
who reside temporarily
(visiting relatives)



-78 -                               ANNEX 4
Table 3: COMPENSATnON STANDARDS FOR REsErLEmEr COST
Item       [                     Standard                         Note
A. Rural Component
a. Land
a) Farmland
Irrigated Land     Henan:
Jiyuan-Y 3,880 per mutY 3,608 per mu             8 times
Xinan-Y 4,850 per mu/Y 4,510 par mu              10 times
Mengjin, Mianchi & Shanxian-Y 3,395 per mu/Y 3,157 7 times
_ _ _ _ _ _  per mu_
Shanxi:
Yuanqu-Y 4,432 per mulY 4,216 per mu            8 times
Xiaxian & Pinglu-Y 3,878 per mu/Y 3,689 per mu  7 times
Dryland            Hena:
Jiyuan-Y 1,720 per mu/Y 1,592 per /mu            sam  as the
irrigate
Xinan-Y 2,150 per mu/Y 1,990 per nm             land
Mengjin, Mianchi & Shanxian-Y 1,505 per mu/Y 1,393
per mm
Shanxi:
Yuanqu-Y 1,960 per mulY 1,864 per mu
Xiaxian & Pinglu-Y 1,715 per mu/Y 1,633 per mu
Floodplain         Henan:
__________   Jiyuan-Y 2,800 per mulY 2,600 per mu                    same as the
irrngated
Xinan-Y 3,500 per mu/Y 3,250 per mu             land
Mengin, Mianchi & Sbanxiau-Y 2,400 per mu/Y 2,275
per mu
Shanxi:
Yusnqu-Y 3,192 per mu/Y 3,040 per mu
Xiaxian & Pinglu-Y 2,793 per mu/Y 2,660 per mu
Note: The two figures in the column *Standard* refer to compensation standards at 265-275 m and up to
265 mn
Times in column ONote refer to total of consation and allowance (subsidy).



-79 -                               ANNEX 4
Table 4: COMPENSATION STANDARDS FOR XID RErzmEN COST 13SIMAT
Item                                   Standard                      Note
Vegetable Plot                       same as irigated lnd
b) Garden                                                                          7 times
Orchard                            Y 8,120/mu
Other Gardens                      Y 3,500/mu
c) Forest Land                        __.__ _
Cash Forest                        Y 3,500/mu                                    7 times
Timber Forest                      Y 1,260/mu                                    7 times
Fuel Forest                        Y 300/mu                                      1 time
d) Nursery                           Henan-Y 3,3951Y 3,157/mu; Shanxi-Y 3,878/    7 times
____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ Y     3,689/m u
e) Pond                                                                            7 times /a
Fish Pond                          Y 7,000/mu
Reed Pond                          Y 2,240/mu
f) Grassland                         Y 210/mu                                      7 times
b. House/Dwelling Cave                                                             L
Prefabricated Houses               Y 135/mz
brick & Timber Houses              Y 120/m2
Brick & Timber High Houses         Y 130/mi2
Earth & Timber houses              Y 90Im2
Earth & Timber High Houses         Y 100/imn                             _.__
Brick & Stone DweIlinI Caves                               .
Earth Dwelling Caves
c. Sparse Trees
Fruit Trees                        Y 45/tree                                     __._._
Timber Trees                       Y 6/tree
d. New Village Construction
a) Land Requisition for New Vllages  Henan-Y 1,505/Y 1,393/mu; Sbanxi-Y 1,960/    7 imes /c
____ ____ ___ ____ __  ____ ___ Y     1,864/mu
b) Land Levelling                    Y 120/mu
c) Water Supply                      Y 300/mu
e. Subsidy for Water Facilities      Y 300/mu                                      /d
f. Facilities of Agricultural Sidelines
Brick & Tile Kilns                 Y 5,000 for each
Limedilus                          Y 600 for each
Other Sidelines                    Y 100 for each
l On the basis of output value of irrigated land.
Figured out on the basis of Henan Provincial standards.
On the basis of output value of dryland.
O On the basis of inundat  farmland areas.



-80-                                   ANNEX 4
Table 5: COMPENSATION STA MS FR XID R                                    COST ESTM!
-____________Item_                  rStadard                         I            Note
B- !M&u:pCoLWonent                                                                                  ;
iL Houses & Dwellin awes           T_                                  Refer to Henam Standards
Brck & Timber Houses             Y 130-135/m2_
Ear&t & Timber Houses            Y 100-105/__
Prefabricated Houses             Y 135-140/M2                       _
Compound Houses                  Y 100-105/rm             __                     _    _
Brick & Stone Dwelling Caves     Y 125-130/e2                       _
Earth Dwellinv Caves             y 70-75/r2
Simple Houses                    Y 50-55m/2
b. ndsra & Commercial Facilities
Industrv                         70% of the constant fixed asset
Commerce                         Y 1.000 for each
c. Loss due to Production Suspension_
Industry                         salary & revenues for 3 montbs/
Commece_                          saly & revenues for 3 months/
d. New Townsip Canstction                                _                _
a) Land Reauisition                 same as land for rural construction          _
b) Municipal Constion               _
1) Street| 
Arerial Street                   Y 0.2-0.34 mion/km
Collector Street                 Y 0.1/km                           _
2) Power Lines
Mains        _                   Y 12.000/km
Terminals                        Y 6.000/km
e. Continuenev                      5%
C. Factory/Mine & Specie items
a Factries and Mines
a) Land Requisition                 same as null residential sites
b) Houses & Dwelling Caves          same as township conmonent                    __
c) Loss of Eauipment,
Industries                       70% of constant fixed assets
Mines                            95% of constant fixed assets
Small Coal Mines                 Y 6.000 for each woTker            _
Other Small Mines                Y 2.000 for each worker



- 81 -                                 E      4
Table 6: COMPENsAnoO STANDA DS FOR    RESE Ill COSI ESnImoI
Item                               Stadard               I       Note
d) Loss due tg   dcn       n  
__ _gw Sa . .. ... 
b.  Institutions oulside To nhins     _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _ _  _  _  _  _
c. Small Hvdroower Pmects
d. Roads                              _
a) Cout Roads (sand & gmav           Y 0.5 milonkm
b) Corm__-xian Roads                  _                                    _ ___.
Asphalt Pavement                   X 0.3 million                        _ _ _
Sand & Gravel Pavement             Y 0.2 millionlm
c) Xianf-Villaae Roads               Y 0.2 million/km
d) Trk  YRo                            20000km
e. Power Facilities                                                  . 
a) 35 kv Substations                 Y 0.3 miliotn for each
b10 kvlSubstabons                       l.OC0 for eacsh                _
cl 35 k Lines                        Y 50.000/km           1___
d) 10 kv Lines                       Y 18.000/km                          __
e) Low-voltage Lines                 Y 12.000/km
 Telecommunications
a) Installation & Test Run           Y 5.000 for esch
bl Countv-Xiant Lines                Y 9.000 for each
c) Xanu-Ville Lines                  Y 5.000 for each                     _
. Public Address Facilities                                                                  I
a) Amplifier Stations                Y 5.000 for each
b) Coumtv-Xian2 Lines                Y 7.000/km                           ______
cl Xianl-Villae Lines               Y 5.000/akn                             ._,__
d) TV Differential Stations          Y 50.000 for eAch                                      11
h. Communicati in Resevoir Resion    _
a) Medium Wharfs                     Y 0.6 million/boat                                      1
b) Small Wharfs                      Y 20.000/boat                                          11
c) General Wharfs                    Y S.000/boat                         _      _     _
d) Medium Boats                      Y 0.5 million/boat
e) Small Engined Boats               Y 20.000/boat                       ;
fi Wood Boats                        y 5.000/boat
D. Reservoi aewint
|a. Sbutmrm Remnoval & Sanitar 91"Cin                                                     _
a) Units at Townsin Level            Y 120 for each
b) Rurl Residential Sites            Y 30/household
lFactories and Mines                 Y 70 foreach               -
lb. Forest Clearing                  Y I151mu
c. Relocation of Tombs                                             _
a) Sinale Coffins                    Y 100 fgr each.
.b Double Coffins                   _Y ISO for each



-82 -vN                               
RESEITTEMENT STRATEGIES, SITE SELECTION
AND ALTERNATIVES
A. STRATGY FOR iD.JFYG REsME    AREAS
1.         Since the general strategy is to relocate the maxmum number of affected
people in farming, the selection of suitable agricultural land is the major challenge for
Xaolangdi rsttlement. However, since most of the avaiable land is already under
cultivation, it is necessary to identify areas where host populations can share existing
agricultural land with the relocatees, without adversely affecng the incomes of either
group. At the same time, it is important to appreciate that to minimize disruption of
rcatees' livelihoods, the order of preference in sit selection is to find locations firstly
within the same xiang/village, secondly within the same county; and thirdly in other
counties in close proximity.
2.         Given the large number of people to be relocated, the high rural population
denSity and limited land carrying capacity in the reservoir region, other areas to resetde
people were investigated at an early stage of the planning. One area called Wenmengtan
was selected because it is presently floodiand and ownership is under the administive
authority of YRCC. When the Xiaolangdi Dam is completed, the Wenmengtan area will
benefit from better flood protection. With investment in dikes and warping, 185,000 mu
of land can be brought into year-round cultivation. A portion of this area can be used to
settle relocatees and still leave benefits for the host area. A second area further
downstram was identified by Henan Province in order the resolve the Xiaolangdi
resetlement problem. In the three counties of Zhongmou, Yuanyang and Kaifeng, the
province had already planned to invest in large-scale warping to improve the fertility of
existing cultivated land. These counties will also benefit from improved flood control and
water supply after the completion of the Xiaolangdi Project. Therefore, the province
concluded that these benefits could be shared with the relocatees to ease their burdens.
Production Meures Concepts
3.         According to the documents "Decision on Further Strengthening the Work
of Agriculture and Countryside- by the Central Party Committee and "the Relons on
Land Compensation and Resettlement of Large- and Medium-Size Water and Hydropower
Projects,  the resettlers are basically arranged to go into agriculture. However, under the
condition of providing a certain amount of basic farmland for each resettder and in the light
of local conditions, resetdement should take a variety of ways to fuily utlize the local
resources. Resetders can be arranged to go into agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry,
sidelines, fishery, etc., and take a development-oriented resettlement approach. In this



-83 -                         ANNEX S
way, every resettler will have his own work to do, daily work is guaranteed and living
standards will reach and surpass the current levels.
Resefflement Planning Prciples
4.          According to the features of the Xiaolangdi reservoir area (arge population,
little farmland and rich mineral resources) planning for productton measures should follow
the following principles:
(a) The land left around the reservoir rim after inundation should be fully used
and should be allotted to surrounding towns and villages.
(b)   Some counties will have difficulties in arranging all resettlers witiin the
county. For this reason, part of the agricultural population of these counties
can be arranged in other counties in order to reduce the pressure on land.
Family members of State workers living in the reservoir area can be
dcanged from agricultural into nonagricultural registration.
(c)   According to local resources and production conditions, employment can be
arranged in forestry, aquaculture, mining, industry and teriary industry to
provide more employment alternatives.
(d)   After removal, the resetders should have the basics for developing
production so that net income can reach and surpass the level before
removal.
(e)   The effect of resettlement on the residents of host areas should be as little
as possible.
5.          More specific planning guidelines can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Resettle people in similar livelihoods:
(i)   Nonagricultural remain 100 percent nonagricultural
(ii) Agricultural remain agricultural whenever possible, otherwise as
much as 20 percent can shift to nonagricultural (within any county)
(b)   Incomes and living standards for affected and host population should
improve marginally (10 percent)
(i)  The relocatee and host population wiffin any village should not have
income differentials (planned) greater than 25 percent, otherwise the
lower income group should be improved accordingly.



-84 -                                    5
(ii)   When land is shared with relocatees, incomes will be made up
tirough intensification of cropping, by:
-     increasing irrigation
-     switching to higher value (cash) crops
-     land improvements (levelling, ferilizers)
-     diversifying with orchards
(iii)   Agricultural relocatees will either receive 1.0 mu/capita of imgated
land or 1.75 mu/capita of dryland or a combination of these. Also,
reloatees will be provided with sideline opportunities.
(iv)   Host villages will give up 5 to 15 percent of their land to relocatees
and will receive compensation (investment) to replace lost income
and improve their standards.
(c)   The environmental carrying capacity of the host receiving areas should not
affect their long-term economic viability.
(i)  In general, no village should have to support their agncultural
population on less than 1.0 mu/capita, otherwise nonagrcutural
employment should be generated to satisfy this constraint (Noted:
some existing villages do not meet this criterion).
(u)   in order to satisfy this criterion, three solutions exist:
-     bring more waste land into cultivation
-     shift livelihoods out of agriculture
-     shift people to lower-density areas.
(iii)  villages selected to host relocatees should have move cultivated land
per capita than the county average, and after resettlement should be
not less than average for the host and not less than 1.0 mu/capita for
the relocatees.
(d)   People should be resettled as close as possible to their previous locale.
(z)   The priorities for selecting relocation sites are as follows:
-     within the same vilLage
-     to adjacent villages within same xiang
-     other villages within same xiang
-     to adjacent xiangs
-     other xiangs within same county



-85 -                          ANNEX S
to specially planned resetdement areas outside county, but
still relatively close (within 100 kIn)
(ii)  the choice of relocation sites must also conform to Principle (c).
(iii) In order to keep people nearer to their home, it may be desirable to
transfer more people to nonagricultural occupations.
(e)   People should be relocated as groups (or naturai villages) whenever possible
in order to reduce social disruptions.
(i)   Entire groups should be,relocated within the same or adjacent village
boundaries, and in most cases would be reestablished as a separate
village.
(ii)   Entire villages should be relocated to a new site whenever possible,
or if split up, should remain with adjacent or nearby villages in the
same xiang.
(iii) Administrative people should move to the new village base to
maintain uniformity.
(iv)   Exceptions to these principles include:
-     some nonagricultural people whose livelihoods must shift
elsewhere (e.g., factories)
-     some agricultural people who shift into nonagricultural
occupations (e.g., factories, mining, commerce, etc.)
-     individual families who have relatives elsewhere within the
county and adequate land or employment opportunities.
(f)   People that shift from agricultural to nonagricultural occupation must satisfy
certain criteria.
(J) They must have at least middle school education [for industrial jobs]
(ii)   They must be between 16 and 35 years old
(in)   They should be in good health (mental and physical)
(iv)   If individuals are married, their spouse should possess similar
characteristics such that both can acquire nonagricultural employment
(v)   They should be willing to shift out of agriculture



-86-                           ANN        S
(vi) If they possess related work experience and skills, they could shift
to a similar full-time occupation (without satisfying criteria [ffi)] and
(f(ii)l
(g)   Economic activities that are no longer viable or outdated should not be
replicated.
(i)   Older technology should be modernized to meet today's economic
and environmental standards (e.g., cement factories, ferdlizer
factories)
(ii)   Noncompetitive activities (e.g., coal mining operations, low-quality
brick making, low-quality/value crops) should be abandoned in favor
of more viable activities
(h)   Each rural household should be,provided adequate land to permit sufficiency
in food (grain) production, regardless of whether agricultural or
nonagricultural options are used.
Panning Method for Development of Production Measures for Rural Resettlers
6.          Analyze and calculate the population to be resettled, numbers of laborers and
their quality according to the investigation conducted in 1986, statistical data of each
county, population census information and verification surveys in 1991.
7.          Investigate local resources and socioeconomic conditions and development
potential, as well as the resettlement scenario according to local government's suggestion.
8.          Select host areas and investigate socioeconomic conditions in these areas.
9.          Study production measures:  This includes how much land should be
adjusted and analysis of soil quality, planting optimization and need for nonagricultural
measures.
10.         Analyze the living standards of resettlers and host residents.
11.         Carry out feasibility study of resettlement scenario.
B. CouNTY STPATEGJEs
12.         Depending on the numbers of people affected in each county, all the
strattgies described have been adopted to varying degrees. In overall terms, approximately
half the agricultural relocatees will be settled within the same county and the other half will
be relocated in outside counties. Nonagricultural employment opportunities will be created
for people who cannot be resettled in farming.



- 87 -                       ANE  S
13.        in Henan Province, 79,300 people from Xin'an and 30,500 people Jiyuan
are to be relocated. Ihese large numbers of people exceed the feasble land caryng
capacity and hence cannot be settled in land-based schemes within each county. The
proposed plan is to move 41,800 people to Wenmengtan-32,700 people from Xin'an and
9,100 people from Jiyuan. An additional 11,300 people will be moved from Xin'an to the
three downstream counties. Roughly 9,000 people will also be shifted to industrial
enterprises within the county and 22,000 people will transfer units that currently employ
other fam;1y members. The share of rural relocatees that remain in farming within their
own county is 22 pen in Xln'an and 44 percent in Jiyuan. Mengjin and Mianchi
Counties have 16,000 and 1,000 relocatees, reWectively, and although land resources are
limited, there are adequate land-based and nonland-based opportunities to rettle all their
people within each county. However, this does require locating a large share of people
to other xiangs where land is more plentiful or where closer proximity to the county seat
is more conducive to industial activities. Shanxian County has less than 1,000 people to
relocatee so moving them back within existing villages and xiangs is quite feasible.
14.        In Shanxi Province, 32,700 people have to be relocated in Yuanqu County.
The availability of land within the county is limited and no other feasible areas in Shanxi
Provnce were identified. The proposed solution is to invest in the Houhe Dam and
irrigtion scheme that would improve the productivity of 75,000 mu of land, sufficient to
receive 16,000 relocatees and still benefit the host area. The remaining people would
move back within their own xiangs or would transfer to nonagncultural activities. Xiaxian
and Pinglu Counties have 500 and 1,300 relocatees, respectively. Relocation within their
own vilages or xiangs is quite feasible.
15.        The two most critical components in the agricultural resettlement strategy
are the Houhe irrigation scheme and the Wenmengtan nver training/warping works. The
Houhe scheme will provide irigated land to 16,000 relocatees within Yuanqu County and
the Wenmengtan area will take in 42,000 relocatees from Jiyuan and Xin'an. Together
these schemes will provide for 58,000 people or 32 percent of all relocatees. Work on
these two schemes will commence as early as possible so that they wi}l be ready to receive
the relocatees according to schedule.
C. RESEM     SUE SELECTION
16.        Resettlement sites are required to satisfy the land requirements for rural
relocatees as well as to provide a site for residences. Sites are selected in host areas where
farmers currently have per capita land holdings higher than the average for the xiang
and/or county. In most cases, the host areas have more than 1.5 mu per capita. The land
to be given to the relocatees should be dryland or slopeland of average soil quality. In this
way, the relocatee and host situation is equitable and the land has good capability for
improved productivity with investments in irrigation, land terracing, soil improvements and
crop diversification. Generally, the sites must be large enough to support a natural village
of several hundred people. One exception is where relocation simply requires moving back
within a village. Most new village sites are located at the confluence of two or more



- 88-                             S
villages in order to minimize the impact of land requisition on individual host villages. In
this maner, the host to relocatee ratio generally exceeds 6:1 on a village basis.
17.        In addition to land capability, the sites must have good geological conditions,
access to domestic water supply, adequate communications and no envronmental problems.
The new villages are generayl arranged independently from the host villages.
18.        A total of 276 sites in 64 host xiangs have been identified, of which 32
ziangs also have inundation impacts. The total popuation in the 64 host xiangs is
1,082,800, with 1,957,100 mu of cultivated land (1.8 mu/capita). The hosts will provide
152,900 mu (7.8 percent) of land to the 139,059 rual relocatees, which will then reduce
per capita farm holdings marginally to 1.67 mu. Map- show the location of the
resetement of (a) 208 sites in the resevoir region and (b) 68 sites in the downstrem
areas. In the reservoir region, the sites will have an average of 410 people while in the
downstm areas the average will be 790 people.
D. ALTETIVE STRAEGES
Alternative Resettlement Strategies
19.           ement for the Xiaolangdi Project is a difficult problem because the
land resources are limited and the opportunities for income not distributed evenly (e.g.,
mineral resources, water resources, industrial activities). The proposed resetdement
stategies are considered to be the most viable and cost-effective means of reestablishing
livelihoods. However, implementation will be very complex and wi}l occur over an eight-
year period. During this time, conditions may change that are beyond the control of the
plementing agencies. Therefore, it is necessary to develop alterative strategies that can
be implemented in case proposed schemes are delayed, or fail to provide projected
benefits, or are rejected due to changing economic conditions. Altnatives strategies have
been developed as a potential fall-back in case some of the proposed strategies cannot be
fuily achieved. These altnatives are summarized in Annex 5, Table 1.
General Afternatives
20.         The following alternatives can be applied generally and are not specific to
any particular scheme or county:
(a)   permit an necrease in the share of cash crops (vegetable, orchards) that can
be sold in the free marlet in order to generate more income from the same
land (this would require a reduction of the grain quota);
(b)   permit an increase in the amount of other cash crops and cotton grown,
which has good returns to labor (both from State-regulated prices and
market prices);



9-                            AN-EXS
(c)   provide more investment to incre  the peretage of irnigated land (this
investment could come from the State, or could be generated by loans from
the Agricultural Bank);
(d)   provide a greater number of nonagricultul jobs in State-owned factories,
mining, construcdon, transportation and commerce (greatei investnent may
be required or existing units could absorb some people until new investment
or solutions are found);
(e)   divert some investment from large-scode enterpnses to township and village
enterpis  where a greater share of the investment would benefit relocatees
(local govenmments have proposed financing of Y 478.25 million for new or
expanded factories, but only Y 68 million is required for relocatees; more
of this investment could be utlized for rural enterprises, which would
employ larger numbers of relocatees in more enterprises and dispersed over
lrer areas);
(f)   divert some investment or provide incentives for loans to start-up or expand
small scale sideline businesses (both agricultural and nonagricultural), thus
increasing farmers' nonfarm income sources within the villages; and
(g) permit opportunities for people to 'opt out' of collective schemes if the
households can provide alternative uses for their cash compensation (e.g.,
moving to jobs with relatives in other areas, starting or reetablishing
private businesses).
Aleatives to County Strategies
Iiyuan City
21.        Jiyuan ha proposed the Xlping Reservoir scheme. This reservoir is located
an the Dadian River, in Jiyuan, 3 km upstream of Tiantansgan Reservoir. At the total cost
of Y 23.3 million, the reservoir will provide a design irrigated area of 30,100 mu. On the
one band, this scheme will provide 5,000 irrigated fields, which can receive about 5,000
relocatees on the assumption of 1 mu per capita; on the other hand, it will also improve
iaion conditions and water supply at other new sites. The scheme will cost a total of
Y Z7.05 million, out of which Y 23.3 milfik ' will be for the reservoir, and the rest Y 3.75
million will be devoted to capital construction on farmland and irrigation (Y 750/mu).
22.         Along the main canal transferrng water from Qinghe River to Mang River,
and south of Taihang Mountain, there exists wasteland from which 13,200 mu farmland
may be tk  (700 mu irrigated fields). According to the local govemment, relocatees and
hosts will share each half of this part of farmland, i.e., relocatees will be provided with
6,600 mu (which 3,500 mu irrigated fields) on which some 5,000 relocatees could be
reseted. This undertaing mainly involves extracting gravels from the wasteland that is
tured into temced fields. Then capital construction on fannland and irrigation is carried



-90-                          ANNX5
out with war from the canal or by means of gravity irigation. It is anticipated that rock/
earth worls wil cost Y 23.76 million and capital construction on farmland/irrigation will
need Y 7 milion. Based on the shared land area, Y 15.38 milLion will be incunred by
resettiement.
23.         These two alternatives can receive approximately 10,000 relocatees, which
implies it potentially could substitute for moving relocatees to Wenmegtan. However, the
total cost amounts to Y 42.43 million (Y 4,243 per capita) which is higher than the cost
needed for Wenmengtan scheme.
Xin'an County
24.         Resettlement work of Xin'an is the most difficult, and the greatest risk lies
in the fict that too many people (32,661 people) have to be relocated to Wenmengtan.
Hienan Province proposes to construct Huaipa Pump Station, which wiU improve the water
supply for industrial and agricultural use in Yina City which could &range 15,000
relocatees in its industdes. But this scheme is very costly. The pump irrigation project
itself will cost as much as Y 212 million. When factories to be rebuilt or created are taken
into account, the total investment will far exceed the investment required for Wenmengtan.
Some loca officials argue that investments required for Yiua City necessary without
resettement, so the incremental cost for relocatees would be much less.
Men,jin County
25.         The altetnative for Mengjin resettlement refers to taking advantage of
Koumatan floodplain. Located at the east end of Mengjin, Koumatan possesses 35,000 mu
wasteland at present. Through river training and capital ^onstruction on farmland!
irrigtion among other measures, 15,000 mu land will be created half of which will be
disributed to some 5,000 relocatees. Of the total investment of Y 19.5-27 million,
resettlement cost constitutes 50 percent.
Mianchi County
26.         Mianchi is short of groundwater resources for irrigation. Though shared
land is confirmed, dryland farming model will have to be adepted. Such schemes
represent no technological risks, but frequent droughts may push relocatees into povert.
Mianchi's alternative to mitigate against such risks is to irigate fields in Chencun, Chidi
and Chengguan xiangs (towns), which are located along the water pipes from the proposed
Huaipa Pump Station. As roughly estimated, 10,000 mu irzigated fields may be made that
would not only improve fmming conditions but also solve the problem of water supply for
human and animaI use.
Yuauqu County
27.         Agricultural resettlement of Yuanqu depends, on the most part (56 percent),
upon Houhe reservoir scheme. If this scheme does not work or is postponed, resetdement



-91-                               AM= 5
alteaives will be limited. To ths end, it is proposed as an alternafive to transfer more
people from fm  to nofam  registration and to share less famland. At present, only
3,589 people are planned to be tansferred to nonfarm registration, and this figure is far
below that of Jiyuan which has an equivalent inundated population. As originally planned,
3,600 people will be resettled in industries and sideline activities. However, it is proposed
to transfer 2,260 of these people to nonfarm registation. In this way, no additional
investm    will be asked for, but more commercial gin will be provided to them.
28.           As priminariy esimated, the above-mentioned altenatives will arrange
some 40Q000    ees, accounting for 27 percent of the reservoir total. See Table 1 for
such altenaives.
Table 1: ALTEmuNT           STEAiEGzS
Coud3r              Planmed Strategies    Alrnadive Strategies
Stregies            investment
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (m illion     y ua )
Jrlymn                23% witn liang, 33% to     Xiping Resezvoir      42.43
Weamenstan, 20% within     15,000 mu iigated,
county, 24% to             20,000 person
ltlitered.    drinkng water.
Kejing Xiang: develop
_________________     _____________________       wasteland   5,000   m u.  __
XiU                   10% within xiang, 8% wii!iin  Huaiba Yellow River   86.0 (exclude the
county, 48% to Wenmengtan,  Pump Station can    pump station)
16% to downsem countes,  rlocate 15,000
18% tonoicul               persons in Yima City
eistier                    instead of
Wenmentlgan
MMngpi                7% vwithin xiang, 72% within   Kounatan River    19.5 - 27.0
county, 11% to             Traing Works can
_nnagriculturl regitred.   relocate 5,000 persons
Mnchi                 17% within xiang, 70%      First phase of Huaiba   To estimate
within county, 13% to      Pump Staion can.
nonagrcltural wregistered  irrigate 10,000 mu
and supply water for
people and livelihood.
Yunq                  17% within ling, 20 %      To tum 2,260 farmers  To estimat
witincounty, 13% to        in nonag. idelines to
nonagriculturl registered.  nonag. registered as
fill-time workers.



Kiaalaugii lOttl_Sut 1r0ject
9g*eat osnt   8q
*    OTSotal
Ityan M11ion%            tugs I!tl3tonl    Poelgu   6so"
JdOaI            -ZUL  JA        To-MWA      -TtL  -xba    -at
A. Ss#*ttlGmt
1. Planning, Design and Adin.               40.96   19.57   60.53    7.12    3.40   10.53        32        2
2. l.sidential and Infrastmucture CoeatV  1,074.81   280.29 1,355.10  186.92  46.75 235.67       21       so
3. Traater of Relocatees                    34.47        ^   34.47    5.99       *   5.99         -        1
4. ivelibhod and Social D 1_o9.at
a. wen_ gtan                            150.S0    01.27  240.07   27.62  14.13  41.75         34        9
b. Ioub DaM and itrigatica Bohan         52.66    26.29   78.97    9.16   4.57   13.73        33        3
c. 3 Dowatream Conties                   10.45        -   10.45   1.82        -   1.82
4. Agriculture Develpment                4642         -   46.62    6.11        -   S.11        -        2
*. Deployment for Farmers               521.24   306.46  627.69   90.65  53.30  143.95        37       30
f. Nonitoring and Social Adjustmnt        L12 .48..  ...4  t. 7,2                    22 . .        2.]
Subtotal Livelihood ad socal Davlcpmmt  a2Oa2  422-314  i.82      t . _3   72L721 _.U4A                   4c .
Sbtotal R.a.ttlmeat                         1,971.07   723;77 2,694.64  342.79  125.67 460.67       27       99
a. Bnvironmental ""g"ent Plan               ....iL3  ...4    2. it?                    ..J4    2.        .
Total S1EN  CO0m                             1,9S6.43   726.44 2,714.87  345.47  126.69 472.15       27      100
Ibysical Contingencies                       136.67   49.46  186.1S  23.77    6.6C   32.37         27        7
Price contingencfie                        1-SA.21 _..EM.Ji 2L,2442  _.Aj2 __.ZJI  96.7L           27       14
Total P2OSCP COS                             3,767.31 1,376.062  ,14S.32  418.14  153.12  571.26     27      121
Sat Nor IS 13s23:66 1294
'0
.Ig 
1-1 Project Cost -iary



Table I. iloOnming and Omaige
0etaili Omekai
Site selection                           0.01  0.01  0.01      -     -                            .0)     - 0.01  0.01  0.01      -                                  .01
)griculture Soheo"                     - 0.01      -     -  0.04     -                        *0.05        - 0.01           -SA.0                                   O . -    .06
WMo-fax  scbeae                    0.00  0.00      -        0.04                                 Cog- .0   0.00  0.00    -     OA .0                                O         .06
Villa"e PIasm 11z10000)            0.00  0.00    .. 0.05  0.1ms                                  0.11  0.00  0.00     *  0.06  0.06      -                       *0.13
Prhlimin4ary Tomn Plaaming         0.01      -     -  0.0)  0.01  0.0)                        - 0.12  0.01      -     - 0.0)  0.01  0.03      -                     0.34
Industrial Relocation              0.01  0.01      -     - 0.00      -     *- 0.10  0.01  0.01                              -0.10             -                    0.11
mesingcan ,                              0.01  0.013,--                                       -  0.02     - 0.01  0.01      -                 -     -              0.02
Subtotal Pleanning                    0.02  0.05  0.04  0.10  0.29  0.0)3                           0.52  0.0)  0.01  0.04  0.11  0.S2  0.02           -      -     -  0.60
Roaft amd Bridges                     0.)             -0.1              -     -     -         014      - 0.03      -     - 0.1)      -     -                    0.16
lover Lines                        * 0.01       -        0.02  .0AS -                     -00          - 0.01      -        .00.0.0)O                           O       .01
Telecoa.amioatioa*                 - 0.00       -              0.02     -            -     -0.03       -  0.00     -     -        0.03     -                  -0.02
Water SUpply                   _.JJ0_QL.C  ...... .....  -LA&* A.J.   .....&2...... ...A .J..0f  a..L*                     AM.0  .LA -..--              --zA.
Subtotal Imfraastwuote             0,00  0.05               0.14  0.00     -     -               0.27  0.00  0.05              0.17  0.09     -                    4.322
1. &grioUlltur scheme
Water source.                   0.02  0.04  0.02      -     - 0.1)  0.12                     0.1)  0.02  0.04  0.02      -     - 0.16  0.16      -     -        0.20
Irrigation Systaua                 - 0.0)  0.0)             - 0.11  0.11    ..      -     -0.20        - 0.03  0.03      -     - 0.1) 0.11       *     -     -
Orchard DeVelogeent                -  0.01  0.01         -  -   .0      -     -               0.06     -  0.01  0.03.          - 0.04      -    -      -
Livestock Development           __-.-A."    --  _z             __12__Z                                   _____1    -               -1                           1L
Subtotal Aguicullturo Scheme       0.02  0.00  0.06      -        0.31  0.24     -      -     -0.70  0.02  0.09  G.0"       -        0.27  0.20                 - 0.0)%
S. won-tarn laboma
county Factorica                0.02  0.04      -        0.16  0.00     -     -     -      -0.30  0.02  0.04       -         .19  0.10     -                 - 0.25
WYS Factories                  0J-Q01.Q         ~     -...  .0..A         *- 0....2            0...LJ .0.QAl ..L2..*.LS ...._.~...  .D
Oubtteal Won-faza U.k...           0.03  0.04               0.24  0.122    -     -               0.44  0.0)  0.04"       -    0.2*  0.15      -                 -aL.
4. Industrial R.1ocatioa           0.02  0.04  0.02      -        0.2)  0.11     -               0.41  0.02  0.04  0.02     -     -0.20  0.14       -              0.49
1.. Istit. Relocatico                 -  0.04      -     -           -  0.1I                    0.1IS     -  0.04     -    -               0.14     -               .1to
4 .Village Layouts                 0.01  0.02  0.01      -        0.1?  0.317    -            -0.39  0.01  0.02  0.01       -        0.21  0.21     -           -0.47
7. Town besigo.                    0.02  0.02  0.12  0.25      -                                0.41  0.02  0.02  0.14  0.230                                     -0.46
0.Large Bobae
Uanmwntazn SugLn.               0.06  0. 06  0.-                                             ::    - 012  0.04  0.06  -  -     -     -     -     -     -01
VanNengtmn Agric. 0ev.             - 0.01  0.to-                                    -      .01         *   0.0   0.01    --                                  -01
Nouhe Oem              ~~~0.02  0.04    -           -           -.                   0.04  0.02  0.04      .           -                             -0.04
Mouaka Irrigation              .L.G   6al                                                     -o ..AJ  -...*...0..LR           -           -
"utotal Design                        0.20  0.49  0.2S  0.2S  0.39  0.91  0.64 #                   3.12  0.21  0.5)  0.20  0.20  045S  1.09  0.79      -     -         3.4)
C. Inutitutionel strengthening
TRCCRO Offices                        .  1.15                  -                                &             .15S   1.24         -     --                - -      1.24
208 Office.                        0.29  0.50  0.43  0.4)3                           -          1.7)  0.30  0.62  0.40  0.49      -                             -1.89
0osett1emwnt Staff Training        0.17  0.34  0.34  0.14  0.17                                 1.35  0.10  0.36  0.17  0.30  0.20      -     -     -     -     *1.49
YRCcRO equipment and Vehicles      0.73  0.14            . 0.20                                 1.15  0.77  0.15            .0.33       -     -     *           -1.25
W0S Equipment and Vehicles        ..L25  0..8J.          - .J.J2  1..~.-..~~..~...1.J  1.01  6.20L                           ...L-I."
Subtotal lGatitUtional Str.ngthen*n  2L.1A  ....J  0.77.  0-77 ..J2                                 _J____ -S                .7  k267
total                           ~~~~~~~~2.37  2.93  1.06  1.11  1.49  0.94  0.64  -        -10.53  2.49  3.14  1.17  1.27  1.7S 1.13 0.70                       11.73
SurL Mar 20 M021:41 1994
1-1 Planning and Design



Table 102 * Residential a"d XACVaetCUtUcture Cnt-tion
Detailed ao.tS
lUL og    12    WL2  19*)  UK0  2AIL 22-=   1)I2  1924  121- U6    1132   Ion_ Is%*1 aZM- 29g01  2ML a2               6
I. InvetaRot costa
A. LOn4 A9a1.Ltion
1. paxomle7ad75                                                                                                                                                                     4.
weAnmegtan                                  -           .6   6.6      -     -      -     -     -      -13.1              - 73 75            --1.
Noube                         -     -  ~~~~      ~~    ~~     ~~    ~~~~~~~~4.9  -   -   -     4.9              S .4    -     -          -              -          54
How.tesCitiabe                                                     4.2      -            -                4.2                   - -        .0      -                            S -5.
subtotal Farmland                              -   0.7  12.3   7.7   8.1   3.9   4.2   3,9                  40.0          0.0  13.i  8.7   9.5   4.7   S.2   4.9         -         47.5
2. villa"e Residential                         -   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.7   0.?   0.4   0,2         -         2.6      -   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.9   0.9   0.5   0.2        -          2.2
3. Towns                                       -   0.1      -     -   0.4   0.2                              0.7      -   0.1     -      -   0.4   0.3      -            -        0.6
4. Factories and Hfines                        -     -   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0. -S                       1.1      -     -  '*.O   0.1   0.2   0.4   0.6        -     -          1.4
S. 1n.titutlODA                                      -.....L   0.....3 .= .J.1 .-.                  z..-  _AAJ.  _.... .        &..L   a.1.   .m_AL   --.z-.  .4
subtotal 140d cUoI*1.10                          .   1.0  12.9   6.2   9.4   5.3   5.1   4.1         -        46.0      *   1.1  14.9   9.4  11.0   4.4   6.3   5.1        *         5.6
5. a*weetrootur.
1. Roads                                       *   0.3   1.4   1.4   4.6   6.2   6.2        -               20.1      -   0.4   1.6   1.7   S.7   7.6   6.0        -              2S.1
2, Oriaggo                                     -   0.3. 0.7       -   0.2   0.7   0.2       -      -     -   2.1      -   0.4   6.6      -   0.2   0.9   0.2       *     -     - 2.5
3. worries., Wharts                                             o .    .6   1.0  -        0.3     .      - 1.6        -     :          0.6   1.2      -         0.4      -     -    2.
4. small WdrISO(CeMOUAat)*                           - 00         -           .     .                        0.                                                                    0   .    - 02 01        3
S. Ilea"tvlal IMras..
35 LV line*                                           0.1   0.1      - 0.2   0.2         -                0.6     -      - 0.2   0.1        - 0.2   0.2        -            .0.7
lKWV Lines                                  -                02             :   0.4,  0.4                 o  0.          -     . 02               :   0.52  05:                 1.1
Low voltage Linee                                            0.:1   0.0         0.    02       -      - 0.5                           I   .    0.0             I .  .           0.6
gub-st&tioofl-                                        0.0      -     -   0.1      -                       0.1      -         0.0      -     -   0.2            -      -         0.2
Subtotal xUaotetala  ftww.                     .           .     .3   0.0   0.3   0.0   0.6        .     - 2.3        -         0.2   0.4   0.1   0.4   1.1   0.9        -2.9
6.Tel.os./Beoadaate
Repeater ftellitle.                                                                                       0    00 - -    .  - - - o,        -   0.0:  -  *.    -      -     - o.
TelecciauInicetion line.-                                    0.1      -         0.:3   0.1     -      - 0.               -01                .      - 04 02            -     -07I
broadcast  inmes-                                 .      .  0.1   0.0       -   0.3   0.3                 O's .6   -               0.1   0.0          0.4   0.4       -         10
subtotel ?.leoom.Ircoadatodle.    ..L  _..AA2                                    ..-LZ..JA.....7....~ ....X4 .....           - .- .-*4 ....L            __ ....4...A. ......     -.1...
subtotal Ztafoertza.tur.                              0.7   2.2   2.4   5.9   7.3   7.9   1.4         .     -27.9        - 0.0   2.6   2.9   7.2   9.2  10.2   1.9          -         34.0
Land LevelIUM13                                          0.0   0.0       -   0.1   0.1   0.0      -      . 0.3                  0.0   0.0      * 0.1   0.1   0.1         -     . 0.2
water Supply                                   - 0.3   0.5        .      -   2.2   2.2      -                 ,       * 0.      0.       -     - 2.       29      -      -     - 6.
rouse Construaction                            -         2.1   2.1   5.3   5.3   S.3   5.3        -         26.4      -         2.4   2.5   6.5   6.7   6.9   7.a                 3.
conetr. steel                                  -          0.9   0.9   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3                 10.9      -1.0   1.1   2.6   2.9   3.0   3.4                       -  13.6
Ceamat/Ltuboi/9ricke                                      2.7   2.7   7,0   7.0   7.0   7.0        -        33.6      -     - 3.2   3.3   6.6   6.8   9.1   9.3          -     - 42.3
ubilic fluilidiOge                                   '   0.7   0.5       -     -   3.6   1.9      -      -   6.0                0.6   0.5         -       4.9   2.5      -     -   0.0
Flood PiOtacliob MNor.%                    2...   ...-   .......  .    ft .                    ....... . ...2. -..L.  ....i ..             ____......z     -t__
Subtotal Village Ooate.ttiOS                    2.0   0.3   7,0   6.2  14.6  16.9  20.7  16.6               -0.2   2.2  .0.3   0.1   7.4  17.9  21.3  26.6  22.0            *     -105.9
1.edAvelliflg                              -     -   0.0      -         0.0      .      -     --         0.1     -      -   0.0      -     - 0.1        -           *          0.1
2. *=kelpel Works
wakter supply                               -     -   0.1            -   0.5   0.3                    - 0.9        -         0.1      -     * 0.7   0.3              -1.1
sewage                                      -     -      . 0.1       -      - 0.6        -              0.7        -           - 0.1        -     - .0         -               0.9
Road. end Pridge.                          .                                                              1.6   1.0      -                  -     --                              S
Others                                   0.2      -      -     .                                          0.2   0.2      -     -            .-                              - 0.2
Flood Protect ion Works                                 .            .   6.j  0,L a __         * ... -. .4J  -.            -a-.L5..a.A ~ -
Subtotal HuiaIlpal Works                    1.0          0.1   0,1       *   0.6   0.9      -            - 3.4   2.0        - 0.1   0.12           0.7   2.2             -         4.)
1-1 Reeldontial and Infrastructure OOustruction
* .A



3. U@aiSifg                                    -         0.1   0.4       -   1.2   2.3   0.t                 4.6     -      - 0.1   0.4        -   1.5   3.0   0.8       -5.9
4. Pubili Buildings                           .                   -      .        1.0                        10     .1      -      -     -            -     -            -         1.1
S. Ircetc4al Eatarprib.                                         01e   .0 . .0.3..0.6              - 6-  1C f-                      -    .    0A.1   -     0.4   0.6  --.           Ik1.
Subtotal town                                   2.9      -   0.2   0.5   0.1   1.8   3.8   1.7        .        10.9   3.2      - 0.3   0.6   0.1   2.3   4.9   2.2          -         13.5
B. Peotortte ad wines
R. elocation
co.mn.atelaebutld                           -     -          6.0   6.0   3.1  12.2  12.2       -         19.6            -          7.2   7.4   3.6  1S.6  16.2                50.6
coomp"oatica temporary Workers           0.       -            -     --                               - 0.9     1.0                -     -         -     -                       .0
Ccmpen*at./Rabuild SAull N4ines-                  -      -   2.4   2.4      -2.6                          7.             -     -   2.0   2.0             - 3.?                  O's.
Coope  te/P.obiaild Small Rural Ratp.                        0 ;   " .2..3...a -    ~      .--           aa... Qj.-.  22         ....,      a-...2  ....2.L   24   .      .   .-2.
subtotal Relocation                          0.9            - 8,6   8.6   3.1  12.2  16.9                   SO 6.2   1.0           -10.2  10.5   3.0  15.8  32.4         -     -63.6
P. Other SuAldiag
coinrcial                                            -                                                     -  -  --                             .         .    .     .         - 
Subtotal othev Uutldbp                          1.2      -     -                         -                  - 1.2  .1.2                     -      -     -     -      -     -1.
0. Other zto
Reservoir clearing                             -     -      -         0.3      - 0.7   0.9        -      - 1.9        -     -                0.4      - 0.9   1.2        -         2.5
Public Health                              -     ....J. k4 O..J    0.1.J   0....1   Q.1. ...J       ..-.-. ...A.  a........L8...LR...8  ....1 .a. I..--0.J   GA..L    ..
Aubtota  Othet Items                                  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3   0.1   0.7   1.0         -         2.2      - 0.8   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.1   1.0   1.1                     2.8
NO.4 Wai Of HN"an(relouatioa)                  -          53                                -     -          5.3      -          .8                                                5.8
vydrofetric tatiooe                                0.2;                0.;     -                   .     - 05         * 03         -         0.3            -                  * 0.6
waktar upplyforwvuanqOp opewNmioe-                              1:-3     -     -      -           -         -. 1.3    -1.4                     -      -     -                      1.4
Ramaval of SeXing Sridge                             - 0.         -                   -     -     -          0.       -     - 01         -     -      -     -      -     -     - 81
bAud Yaw 220WV tines-                                     44      -                                         44              - 4.        -      -     -      -     -     -      - 49
3Relocate RxIetOng 220KV "sins                 -                 .             -      -     -     -      -    0.      -     -      -   0.9     -                   -     -     - 0.9
Relocate CaUsanication Uss                           -      -         0       .6     -      -C.;-   0.5               -                     -       0.5                            0.6
TreUAtmNt Of Culture Relics                     G..R   ..A   6....9. ....A   A4 -.A  G..A           ...   .J46...4...L  ..A4 ..A                    L   ...J..A. ...4  ...
Subtotal ProviCial Pacilitie.                a.... ...JJ..X1 --...A~  ....o. .....o  6..... .0..A.s........  .J   .1~2. _....   __..aJ ..1.4 k. ..51 
fetAlI                                                6.9   2.6  32.4  28.4  39.S  3S.3  50.9  41.9        -       237.6   7.S   2.8  36,4  33.4  47.9  44.1  65.   55.J         -       292.9
Sat Nar 19 12300:19 1994
1-2 Residential OAd InreastructAre CocstL,ation



aURA
Xleolangdi Reeettl*ent ProjeCt
Table 103. Trana fer of rolocateea
Detailed Coate
(US million)
X. 1atvetwt costs
villages                 -         0.4   0.4      -   1.5   1.5   2.5       -          .2      -     - 0.4   0.4            1.8   2.8   1.8                 6.3
Towns                                 -   0.0     -   0.0   0.1   0.0       -         0.2            -     -   0.0      -   0.1   0.1   0.1      -      - 0.2
ltotal                        -          0.4   0.6   0.1   1.S   1.?   1.1                 6.0      -     - 0.4   0.6   0.2   1.6   2.1   2.3         -      - 7.3
$at Mar I$ 12:44s03 1994
1-1 Trwaiwtr of 3relocatee



amaa
XI&olsngdI Resettl..mlt Project
Table 104. WNamengtan
paetaled Ctoat
109   13M4  JM   lULI447  IifL_ IE2I 2flL 201     Ws 3W                   U9 29   19UL  22UL  197  100   12A2L 2gg   SaL- 2002  Tora
I nvestamet cmoat
River Training                            - 3.)   4.1   2.9                                           -1.               3.6   4.6   3.3                                  -1.
Conatructlogo at Dykes                    - 1,2   1.2   03          .3     -                          - 29         - 1.2   1.3   0.3 0.                    -      -      -     . 22
Auxiliary and Other works               0.4   0.9   0.4   0.2        -                                - 1.6   0.4   1.0   0.4   0.3                                                 I         .9
Tosporary Wark&                         0.1   0.2   0.1       -      -            -      -                0.4   0.1   0.3   0.1               -                   .                  .6
coostruotiasi "nabgg.6t                 0.0   0.3   0,3   0.3   0.1        -                   -          1.0   0.0.  0.3   0.3   0.3   0.1          -     -      -                 1.1
othoer                               ...Laf ....2 ....L  -...LI. ...J..*.                                 8....L  ...Lf ...A42  0....2  --...L  .   .~  ......
8ototaie Rivet Training                    0.6   6.1   6.1   3.7   0.4               -                       16.0   0.6  6C5   6.6   4.2   0.5                                        16.6
D. Warping and flalatad wafts
Warping by' Sadwiater                     -   0.1   0.1   0.1        -                          -         02       -   6.1   0.1   0.1        -                                     0.3
Warpying by Drafger                       -   1.2   1.6   1.6   16.        -                    -     - 6.:0       -   1.3   1.m      .      .  -                 -     -1.        6.7
Pssaing station                           - 0.6        -                                                    .6          0.6                                                          .
canal.                                        1.6   1.               -                          -     -     .6     - 1.0   2.0 ;                                                     .
Woarping And Soil Iupravanent             -          1:.11   1.1   1.1      -                  -      - 3.4        -      -   1.3       1.3 1.       -     -                   - 2.
lesporary Works                               O .)   0.2   0.1       -            -      -            - 0.6        - 0.3   043   0.1          -      .     -      -      -     - 041
6* .1Wring ead Uelotad wow"e            - 4.6   5.1   3.1   2.S                                         IS  - -1.7    4.0   5.7  31.5   3.4                                      II.    - si.
irrigation Canals                        ..      -     -   5.4  11:2       -      -                       06              -        ..4   0.                -      -     -      - 67
irrigatioa Tuab.vlel                                                I       .  .                          2.       -      .     -      - 13   1.4                 -     -      - 2.
orchard Deveslopment                                        O    .3   0.1   0,1   0.1   0.1    -      - 0.6                          0.4   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1                   0.
tiah~~~~~~od             -      -      -     -   0.5   0.5   0.2        -      *     -   1.2      -      -      -      -   0.6   0.6   0.3       -      -          1.6    ...j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05    .5 0,  -1.  - 0.
Agriculturo Processing                    -             .                0.2   0.2       -                0.4      -      -      -     -      - 02 02             -.    .
ftoad Processaing                         -                              0.)   0.3       ..    -      - 07                -      -            - 0.4   04          -            - 0.
Paprv Mills--zA                                                                A        - ...J..S.- -----                                      ...J.5 .LA.               ..   ..
Subttal Agriculture Ds3gat                   -                 0.7   2.0   2.6   1.4   0.1         -     -   6.9             -          0.6   2.)   3.3   1.7   0.1         -          0.2
9. Other sideline itaterprise.               -      .      -                 .1   1.1       -      -         2.2      -                    -     -   1.3   1.3       -      -     -   2.6
B. Sachaical Training                                 .6....L  --A.  --..ILA ....L                          --....L . I ..J.   .        - z  ...L. .4 ... .J       " .J4 ..   ........ -    z~
Tot"4                                            0.5  10.1  11.3   7.5   5.3   3.9   2.5   0.1                    41.0   0.6  11.5  12.5   6.5   6.2   4.7   3.1   0.1           -      -47.2
gat Mar 19 MUM1a5  1994
1-1 Wnaga



CHINA
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project
Table 105. Houhe Dam and Irrigation Scheme
Detailed Costs
(US5 million)
BSen Cost                                                  Totals Tn ludiaS  ContingoaeQan
.1991  A9$. 1252-.        1997.129.  23.91. 20D0   20L., 2.fa_ Total 1291  1924. 199%  1          1997 3298  192. 29._ 900L 2022_ TtlI
I * Inveatmeat cotse
Dac Conetrucrion                 -   1.7   1.7   1.7                                       -   5.1      -   1.8   1.9   1.9       -                   -     -      -   5.6
Power Cenerating Units          -      -     -   1.1      -      -      -     -      -     ^   1,1      -      -     -   1.2      -      -     -      -     -      -   1.2
Repair main Canele(largal       -      -   3.7      -      -     -      -     -      -     -   3.7      -      -   4.1      -     -      -     -      -     -      -   4 1
Secondry Cala                   -      -   0.5   0.5                -      -               -   0.9             -   0.5                                                 1.0
Tertiary Canals                 -      -   0.4   0.4   0.4       -      -     -      -     -   1.2      -      -   0.5   0.5   0.5       -     -      -            -   1.4
Land Levelling                  -      -     -      -   1.2      -      -     -      -     -   1.2      -      -     -      -   1.4      -     -      -     -      -   1.4
Soil  XoproveFeat                    -.                                                      - -A              -               __.S             . ......       _            os- __     
Total                                 -   1.7   6.2   3.6   2.2        -            _            -  13.7      -   1.5   6.9   4.1   2.5       -      ,                  -  1S.4
Set Mar 19 12:52:03 1994
~0
1-1 HcU6e DaM *ad IrriLgtion Scheme



ANNK6A
Table 7
I*il N~   * e  f. i  jI 
til tIllIjiC%
00 r400r01 iO
. It I * Idd o     
i-l     111.    I o o oc
111111-
J       '''''I'
::''''''''I'
e~ ei 0 I                                                                 U
, "~~~iii   Il    '    I 1(1
XC                  Ii  .X , .o .qe
aIl lil if iO
I  I'''''''''I'j
11'''''''''I'
14              I



CHINA
XiAo1INgdi Reaettlement Project
Table 107. Agriculture Development
Detailed Coate
(US$ million$
1991  1994  19A 9  1961 199?            1299  2000  2*fl- 2Q02  Tta 1t392  199J 19S             1 W6 1997  199   1229_  2L       2002 ToaUal
x. Iav.tat Costs
A. Partial zrrAgation
Irrigation lubewll            -      -   0.3   0.3      -   0.    0.9   0.9       -     -   3.3      -      -   0.3   0.3      -   1.1   1.1   1.1       -      -   4.0
Land Levellling                -      -     -   0.1   0.0       -   0.2   0.2       -     -   0.5      -      -     -   0.1   0.0       -   0.2   0.2      -      -   0.6
Soil Ilproveuent               -      -     -   0.1   0.1       -   0.1   0.2       -     -   0.4      -      -     -   0.1   0.1       -   0.1   0.3      -      -   0.5
Orchard Development          _     o-  oL o.J .1 _.0g_   o.A   0.. o.                           A o_ 3      0.1   0 ...... ..... ..  ___    Q1    .4 .A1-6
Subtotal Partial Irrigation       -   0.1   0.4   0.4   0.1   1.5   1.5                -     -   5             0.1   0.4   0.5   0.1   1.8   1.8   2.0        -      -   6.7
S. Dryland Farmaig
Land Terracing                 -      -     -   0.3      -      -   0.4   0.4                 1.4             -     -   0.3      -      -   1.0   0.5      -      -   1.0
High yield Furrowa             -      -     -   0.0      -      -   0.0   0.0       -     -   0.0      -      -     -   0.0             -   0.0   0.0      -      -   0.1
Soil Improvement               -            -   0.1   0.1       -   0.3   0.5       -          1.0            -     -   0.1   0.1       -   0.3   0.7      -      -   1.2
Industrial Crops                      -        --_  _   6 __' _                    -   -" _-J     n- o-                        n ......o  ,-  -   ,   Qtl  _  -   __ 1-
Totl                                    -   0.1   0.4   9.9   0.2   1.S   2.6   2.6          -     -   8.1      -   0.1   0.4   I.O   0.3   1.6   3.2   3.3         -     -   S.9
8at Mar 19 122553)1 1994
O
1-1 Agric-ulture Developoent



CHINA
Xiaolangdi Resettlenent Project
Table 100. Industria. and Sideline Development
Detailed Coats
(WS 4111ion)
]MAL cost             -T9tD\D including coDtingencian
1991  1914   l          1,   1997  194   12SL 200  20201  22-2 Total 12991199   19&  199L 1997               19       2AfL 2001 2flA  ToI
I. laatomaat Cost.
A Agricult4re Sidelisa
Livestock Developmenc              -      -     -   0.1   0.0           0.3   0.1      -     -   0.5      -     -      -   0.1   0.0      -   0.3   0.2      -          0.6
Porestry                           -     -      -   0.0      -     -   0.0   0.0       -     -   0.1      -     -      -   0.0     -      -   0.0   0.0      -     -   0.1
Mulberry                                - _   -     0          1                               0     0 _  0_ 1                                094   0-2                 0_ 7
Subtotal fgricultur Sideline          -      -     -   0.2   0.1      -   0.6   0.3       -     -   1.2      -            _   0.2   0.1      -   0.6   0.4      -      -   1.5
D. T?ov./Vil. ant*rpriaea
Resettlement Investment            -   0.9   1.7   1.7       -   5.8   5.8   5.8       -     -  21.8      -   0.9   1.9   2.0       -   7.0   7.2   1.4      -     - 26.4
Others              _                  0,1   0 3   0.        m    1 ,0   1.0                     3.6  ,       0.2 t0,-a .         }     .  -  I   1.2               - _ ,
Subtotal tow./Vil. Retarpria.         -   1.0   2.0   2.0       -   6.8   6.8   6.6       -     - 25.4       -   1.1   2.2   2.3       -   8.1   8.4   0.6      -     -  30.7
C. county Eatarpria"
Reaettloeent Punds                 -   0.8   1.5   1.S       -   5.2   5.2   S.2       -     -  19.4      -   0.8   1.7   1.8      -   6.2   6.4   6.5       - S      23.4
Other Inveatoento         _           684 _-.   9..              2L26 _22"  .2LA      _.                       L.6 >.%   7j   -_ -22.2  274 ..2  .6o.....
Subtotal County  nt.tprisoa           -   4.2   8.3   8.3       -  27.8  27.8  27.8       -     - 104.2      -   4.5   9.2   9.5       -  33.4  34.3  35.2      -     - 126.1
D. Traneter to Fanilieo Units         -          1-1   4-       -      t   %.S   Sj --Z                      _j                                         1,3 2 _ 2  _, __Z  16-2
Total                                       -   5.2  l1.S  11.6   0.1  34.5  40.7  40.4        -     - 143.9      -   5.6  12.7  13.3   0.1  41.6  50.2  51.1               - 174.5
Sat Mar 19 13:.17s27 1994
'oa
1-1 Industrial and Sidei -. Davelo5snt



CHINA
Uiaolangdi Resettlement Project
Table 109. Monitoring and Supervislon
Detailed Costs
Rge Cost  $INS MilliTon)TOalc Tncluding CgOntJipeniJaS  IUSS MIL0                                      D
1U91  1222_ 197  1t    1999  2000  20a0   202- Tfll I 1993  199i  199r,  1996  19S     19   ui&  200g  200z  >002
I. lav*etuat Costs
A. AdmAnistration
Provincial Reeettlemmnt bureau   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2           -     -   1.0   0.0   0.1   0.   0.1   0.1   0.3   0.3   0.3               -   1.2
County Remettiment Oftice         0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   1.0   1.0   1.0         -     -   4.1   0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   1.2   1.3   1.3         -          5.0
YRCC  R   ese ttlement Otfice  L    .40 1.,1 __   __.A04, _. .    n.A.41  0.L1   0..             __Q _ Q    4 ...0   ..  x  ..4  L    .4  .4  _               - _  _     1_ 7
subtotal Adminiutration               0,0   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   1.6   1.6   1.6         -     -   6.4   0.0   0.4   0.S   0.5   0.4   1.9   2.0   2.0             -      7.8
S. Superviaion-YRCCRO                 0.0   0.0   0.0,  0.0   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2         -     -   0.7   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   4.2   0.2   0.2          -         0.8
C. Monitoring
YRCCRO                             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         -     -   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         -      -   1.0
external                          -0-     - eo Oo O "                        o- -J __9 5JL  --&  o. __QO Q-           O   n  0-1 - -a1 _ Q-)    1
Subtotal.                            ..Ltor0rg  0-Q  0.1  0.1 .-.a   0A J 3.L 0.-  ------- 3-_    -   1      ..     . 0 .              a _  . A xl01   OA 3  _
Total                                       0.0   O.S   O.S   0.S   0.6   2.1   2.1   2.1        -          0 .4   0.0   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.7   2.5   2.5   2.6        -        10.2
Sat Mar 19 13s19:07 1994
I-3
ao
1-1 Zonitoring and supervision



CHINA
Xiaolaagdi Regetcleogmt Project
Lcoal/Porelgn/1se by vSnnaamcL
(U54 millioan
The
g=;nmen Tr          p          Provincea  *Rter=imea  C ........tX-: k-s  Iotal
*         arauZ *.L    hmuno   4                       Mwm      *    hul_
I.   foreign                37.6   24.S   69.7   45.S    0.1         -   20.2   13.2   25.5   16.6  1S3.1   26.0
11. Local (Rxcl. Taxes)  322.1   77.1   40.3    9.6    0.2    0.)   27.7    6.6   27.7    6.6  410.0   71.2
iIt. Taxes                 . 2 _1QQ_Q0 *              _ _         ___Q2                                          -
Total Projoat                  359.8   63.0  110.0   19.3    0.3    0.1   47.9    8.4   53.2    9.3  S71.3  100.0
8at Par 19 14:42s41 1994
I4T
4-1 Local/Foreign/TaxOS by FinanciOra



cHIlA
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project
03ocm.nta by Financiere
(US$ Hillion)
The                                                                                      Local Duties
0yammeflt...r .........4DBLR.......... ... rwvincea  _ZRteMpi"e_ Cnnartr. Bank   Flt.   Por.  (axcl.   &
mt. Aunt  l,A               hAan,t   &   Amo*unt   *                      AM     a       c   Taxes) Tajeal
A. Reaettleoent
1. Planning. Deeig  and A4ain.                 4.0   34.1    7.7   6S.9        -      -      -       -                  11.7    2.1   3.7    8.0       _
2. Residential and Infrastructure Constr    214.3   73.9   75.9   26.1          -      -  -                  -       - 290.1   50.8  60.8  229.3        _
3. Transfer of Relocatees                       7.3  100.0               -      -                                         7.3    1.3      -    7.3      -
4. *ivelibood nd Social Development
a. Wenmengtan                               34.5   64.7   14.0   29.8        -      -    2.6    5.6       -       -   47.1    S.3  15.9   31.3       -
b. Houha Dam and Irrigation Scheme           9.2   60.0    5.9   36.0    0.3    2.0         -      -                  I -   15.4    2.?   5.1   10.3  -
c. 3 DownstreAm Counties                     1.3   60.0    0.9   40.0        -      -      -       -      -      -    2,2    0.4       -    2.2      -
d. Agriculture Development                   6.7   68.0    3.2   32.0        -      -      -       -      -       -    9.9    1.7           9.9      -
a. Employment for Parmer7                   76.0   43.6       -      -       -          45.3   25.9   53.2   30.5  174.5   30.5  64.5  110.0
f. Monitoring and Social Adjustment        ?.,. C0.4 -.-LA          -6                     _5-6 ...L    -                                   s 6
Subtotal Livelibood and Social Development -4 F   5.    14.7    9.6 __el.3 __,1  _*72.4 9 1.L9 .            2   20.7 _2S7..  7d5.J  B7 6   7.12.
Subtotal Resettlemet                             357.1   63.0  108.3   19.1    0.3    0.1   47.9    8.4   53.2    9.4  566.9   99.2 152.1  414.8            -
S. Environcental Management Plan                 -.-Al 6          1-7 . 1.9..      ------         -                 ............4. 4    . o.a -.-.L    3.2    0 2
Total Disbursement                                359.8   63.0  110.0   19.3    0.3    0.1   47.9    8.4   53.2    9.3  571.3  100.0 153.1  416.0    0.2
Sat Mar 19 14a42t23 1994
C
2-1 Cbaonentc by Financiers



CHINA
Xiaolangdi Resettle.ent Project
Allocatica of Loan Procatdo
tUSS million)
Sugg eted Allocation of
_  can ProeedA2                                                                             LAn Am,tuntt
Di6bursewent   TotAl Project Cost    Aveagr   Diahuraemnt t                 hnaaioated        a       )11Cete
Zmnanmhmnr-        It       Toal   Local  Egrg  _MZaL_ JOS&L  P~aor    osI  LA                       PoL ~    X6L  ~A    *a
la&_ ksNne   _ *   luta   _Loga_ Forsa  Tnta   _LDC1   oOAlan TotAl  Total   *ccal  Freign _Tttal   LS!Parelon
1. Civil Works                              19.3          11.7   175.4   144.3    31.1    11.7       0.9    61.8  20.5      1.2     0.1      1.1    19.3     1.2    18.1
2. Housing                                  25.0          55.2    49.8    38.4    11.5    55.2    41.8   100.0  27.S        2.S     1.S      1.0    25.0    14.6    10.4
3. Constr. Material                        40.S         79.9    56.1    24.4    31.7    79.9    53.9   100.0  44.8         4.1     1.2      2.9    40.8    12.0    28.8
'4. Agric. Land Iuprov.                      5.8          36.1    16.4    14.3       2.5    36.1    26.3    91.7   6.0       0.3     0.2     0.1      5.8     3.6     2.2
S. 3qyipment                                 0.9           0.6   154.0    98.3    55.6      0.6      0.7     0.4   0.9      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.9     0.7      0.2
S. Vebicles                                  2.8         100.0     2.9     0.2      2.7   100.0   100.0   100.0   2.9       0.1     0.0      0.1     2.8     0.1      2.6
.7. ConsultaDtg                              1.6           8.6    19,S    14.9      4.6      8.6     4.7    21.3   1.7      0.1      0.0     0.0     1.6      0.7     0.9
B. Sraining/Irst. Support                    3.3          75.7     4.6     3.8      0.8    75.7    70.4   100.0   3.S       4.2     0.1      0.0     3.3     2.5      0.8
9. Znvironment Mnagemnt                                                  -        -           -                   -                -
10. monitoring                                               -       -        -                - -             - -     -      -            -       -       -            -
11. Rngineoring/L4cal Consultants            2.1           2.4    92.2    79.6    12.6      2.4      2.3     2.7   2.2      0.1     0.1      0.0     2.1     1.7      0.3
Unallocated                                   R.&               -        -           _-                   -        -     -       -        -       _        -       -       -
Tot"                                          110.0          19.3   S71.3   41S.2   153.1         *       -        -110.0      8.6      3.2     S.4   101.4    37.1    64.3
Loan ammunto financed by I38
Sat Mae 19 14s43a02 1904
..2 Allocation of LoanProceedsn
7-1 Allocatfon ot Loan Proc.ede



CHINA
Xt.aolan4_ Reaettlecent 2roject
Diambirsauwts by samategg an4 Goroment Cash now
(US$ Million)
Coate
g4oneing Available              to be
Constr.      E/nAWAe   Th Q=9trmpnt_
flRRn Provinced Bftlxrlsai _lnk_         Project            Cusulative
Amount Amcgnt    A qun    ANgMnt =ACl costa  Caeh Plow cash lQ_
1      -         -           -       -    - I.3            -5.3       -5.3
2    1.6         -           -       -  1.6       S.3      -3.7       -9.0
3    1.6         -           -       -  1.6    12.7       -11.0      -20.0
4    3.6         -         0.0    0.9  5.5    12.7         -7.2      -27.2
S    3.6         -         0.8    0.9  5.5    35.5        -30.0      -57.2
6    6.S         -         1.6    1.9  10.1    3S.6       -25.5      -02.7
7    6.5         -         1.6    1.9  10.1    31.4       -21.3    -104.0
a    5.8       0.2         1.7    2.0   9.7    31.4       -21.6    -125.6
9    5.8       0.2         1.7    2.0  9.7    30.3        -20.6    -146.2
10   9.1         -         0.0    0.0  9.2    30.3    '-21.2    -167.4
11   9.1         -         0.0    0.0  9.2    49.3        -40.1    -207.4
12   9.1         -         6.6    7.0  22.7    49.3       -26.6    -234.0
13   9.1         -         6.6    7.0  22.7    63.6       -41.2    -275.2
14  10.2         -         6.9    7.3  24.5    63.8       -39.4    -314.6
15  10.2         -         6.9    7.3  24.5    57.3       -32.9    -347.4
16   8.7         -         6.3    7.4  22.5    57.3       -34.9    -382.3
17   8.7         -         6.3    7.4  22.5        -       22.6    -359.0
13t-o-                               - -       -              -    -35S9.
19     -         -           -       -    -        -          -    -359.S
20     -         -           -       -    -         -         -    -359.8
21     -         -            .      -    -         -         -    -35S9.8 
total  110.0      0.3        47.9   53.2 211,5   571.3           -    -359.8
Sat Mar 19 14t42s55 1994
to
6-1 Disburements by Samesters and Government Cash Plow



Table 1: HousNG CoNDmoNs BEFoRE AD AFTER RmEsET
Categoeuda             % of Taha  AW&Uve&od   Coutai                 Build ateis          Valu of Hows     WawpplY            Appasteaine        Public WFaty
Suameyed       ()             (ID)                                      omn)            (day)
Bfore          Altr                        BeforB Afler   Bef<ne Aftr Befoe            Afte         Before Aft   Before   Met   Befoe    After    Bdfoe   After
Maty m&    Mainly bdic a                   140    100      0.4    0.25  PAmb           Brick        m6      1160                     pw       gsoma   por        genra
camNs             bme   omber
Mil bi         Mainly bdeic &       47    140    100       0.4   05  Bsdcko           BrkTimber 8750   11600  245           60      geea   hete        genra   bet
cm             dmbe boum
Maily bick    baily bick            33    120    100       0.4    0.25  BdcWfmb_   Brick a           10100  13000                    ge8wal  beaer    gena   bhUeer
tisberbass   Umbero                                                                    _ber or
(IOrb Bea a    fabicte houe                                                            fabricate
bib)                                                                                   coo                                                                                                I
P_efabsicaisi   Mal "de"            2      120    tO0      0.4    0.25  fbricaed       abricated    13600  14000                     goad     good      geQeralow
b_w            F_                                                        ecee:        eonmee.,
s_.va   nR  .rqi 1991 an  upsdpes
I



Table 2: MAIN RPSErLnEM   CoNs'uUnoN AcTivrEs
itm                 Tota      Hoa         ilya       Megjin       Xlna      Misuclu   Sbanxian  Shanxi TOa        Yuau  Xiaxi_   PN _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _  Total                                          _ _ _ _  _ _  .___       .__Tta
A) Population                                                                                                     _                   _____
Movins Populatioulj      171,118    136,S 0 30,54            12,097     79,345      12,740        964        34,610       32,747      47      1,318
Rural LIveliboods        14S,757    116,743     27,25         8.920     67.95:      11.710        907        29,00!       27,379      4781    1,152
Rul Houaing              139,059    110,783     26,068        7,        65.428      10,U          881       28,760        26,S6       471     1,232
Population                                                     , .     .          .  ._-_..
1) Irgation          299 wels &   221 wells  83 wells &  29 wells, 11   21 wells. 7S wels A    2 pump       8 pump        I pump   3 pump   4 pump
Salemes            pump stations,   & pump        pump    pumping  49,87 mu          pump    statons,      stations,      staion,  staions,  staions,
91,009 mu    sations     staions,    stations, (Wnamng-    saions,    397 mu   -17.581 mu    16,331 mu   300 mu   9S0 mu
73,428 mu  13,8S6 mu    5.425 mu         tan)   3.879 mu
C) soi Impmvmen        10.169 mu  l0,169 m    2,713 mu    1,338 mt   6.l18 mu _
D) Trata of         93 eotaprces 80 fautorie         6      2m              68
ltaed  Factorle       (1986 data)   & mis  tranaf        transferred  tr_anf       3 mines      I mine 13 factories &  10 rasfetd           3 mines
A Mi_e                    _redocated  &re                              ce d   tcloc           relocat lo     mines   Aro                   reocat cd|
Other Fatorls A    IS9 factories a     IS  27 faaois        I  n12                S mines                   I min        I mu
Mines (no plns yt)   Wm" (1991 fcoe            & Wm"                 factorsa
datm)     m                                  mina                  -                         -               
Employees                 28,876    24.881        2,636       1,477     20,103        S45         120        3.991         3,695                300
) Expanded&Now        S3mim & 3Smln      is ISxaded          2  w9 eIepanded  I wwmine  15I epanded   13.and                        I nw      Im
Factories & Mines       factr      facto        s A new    factories    & new       a new                    mine   & now mine       mine
for Rural Rocatees                           factories &             rcor       factoris 
min_l                  Minm        mines
l Beheen 1994 and 2000, the population moved will be IS4,000.
...Conlnued
I



Table 2: (CoNPD)
Item             Total     Hena        Jiyuan    Mengjin       Ximn      Minchi Sbaxisn  Shauxi Total       Yuanqu   Xiaxian       Pingin
Tota
F) Inftastructurcs                                                                                                              __
1) Roads             1,763 kn 1,373.3 km   322.2 km    91.4 km     753.4 km    183.3 km  23.0 km    389.7 km     334.5 km    8.8 km     46.4 km
2) Rsavoir         23 maedium  16 medium  6 medium &    2 small 3 medium&  4 mcdium &   I umall  7 medium &  3 medium &  2 faries;  4 medium&
commuIations          & small   & small small warffs;    wharfs; small wharfs; small wharfs;   wharf; small w_afs; small wharfs;   4 bow  small wharfs;
(eost. 10 yuwa)       warfs;    wharfs;    3 ferties;   11 boat    6 femres;    5 ferries;   t frry;   12 fenries;    9 ferries;  (I new)  I frry;
27 ferries; IS forries;  23 boat  (2 new &     20 boat      29 bot   6 boats     43 boas      26 boats              13 
132 boat   89 boas (9 new motor     small)    (8 new)      (7 new)              (20 new)    (13 new)               (6 ncw)
_______________      (46 new)  (26 new)       boats)                        _
3) ElacUidy Supply   631.4 km   S32.2 km    61.91 km    53.9 km    264.4 km    126.1 km  25.9 km      99.2 km     66.6 km   7.7 km      24.9 km
(35 k, 10 kV, low
4)Telecoininunlcatlon   524.1 km   406.1 km  66.7 km    37.2 km    243.9 km     58.3 km                118 km      118km
5) Public adress &    896.9 k; 696.3 km;   157.4 km    45.2 km    415.1 km;    72.9 km;    S km      200.6 kr    190.9 km   2.7 km        7 km
TV facities         5 TV diff   S TV dift.                        4 TV diff.   I TV diff.
ssationsatio                                 statio       swaon
a) Conslructon of    Il towa    Stowns         town      I town       towns      I ton                3 towns     3 towns
townehIpsIA
H) Conction ot   276 v1llb   119 vHkSa   37 villags; 44 villap   28 vilbge;  48 v1      7vW 7v      77 vitges   63 vtlsgc 9vlla        S vill"
vslg                                     Wmengton                downatcoam
9_v__ _ _ _           59 v9vS0 -9-
) Speci Itehos                   m Ja No. IV; hydrometric stations; Yuanq wat wue projut; cultural reics for both pwin; r    ofcable bridge;
aboveounty evel              national commumication lines; 220 kv powv lines; power supply for rcsewoir rdocatees.
IA Dwing 1994-2000, only 10 wns wi be but.



- 110 -
ANNEX -8
INDEX OF INCOME TABLES
RELOCATEE
Location                       Move Type                     Location             Table
Houhe                           Average Income               180-265 m Av      I
High Income                  180-265 m Hi     2
Medium Income                180-265 m Me     3
Low Income                   180-265 m Lo     4
Jiyuan                          Within Country               < 180 m           5
To Wenmengtan                180-265 m        6
Mengjin                         Within Country 1             <180 Im           7
Within Township              180-265 m        8
Xinan                           Within Country               < 180 m           9
To Wenmengtan                180-265 m         10
To Kaifeng etc.              180-265 m         -11
To Zhongmu                   180-265 m         12
To Yuanyang                  180-265 m         13
Mianchi                         Within Country               180-265 m         14
Shanxian                        Within Township              180-265 m         15
Yuangqu                         Within Country               180-265 m         16
Xiaxian/Piglu                   Within Country               180-265 m         17
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _H osT                          _  _  _ _
Houhe                           Avg. Income                  180-265 m Av      18
Jiyuan                          Within Country               < 180 m           19
Within Township              180-265 m         20
To Wenmengtan                180-265 m         21
Mengjin                         Within County1               <180 m            22
Within Country 2             < 180 m          23
Within Township              180-265 m         24
Xinan                           Within County                < 180 m           25
To Wenmengtan                180-265 m         21
To Kaifeng etc.              180-265 m         26
To Zhongmu                   180-265 m         27
To Yuanyang                  180-265 m         28
Mianchi                         Within County                180-265 m         29
Shanxian                        Within Township              180-265 m         30
Yuanqu                          Within County                180-265 m         31



- 111 -                                             ~~~~ANNEX 8
auZ   ,|,,s,                                    ~~Table 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ihpoe4tue~ P--\ ce mw  <t"7
roe" cetes                             15.   15.   7s.7         12.3 t21S2.3  MI.  1z.2 1U.3  t2.3  t2.3  t2.1  12.3  tl.l  2.   12.7  t2.3    15.7    I$.7  ;2-3              .0.2
Cash~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~~ ~: ct7 5 9               S    I 6    o:s  %O, s   *.e   9o   l9. e  .       9.   9.   9. e   9.lXZ Z0    *.0    9.   S. * .    S.      9.  0   26 t
O'Cz                                3    C       .6   0.2   0.    Q.   4.    9.   20    13.   13.  17    13.   13.   1. 2:s.   1332 5                    A  03.3 
te$7er an  ftagot                       .1.   1.1   3.8  3.3   3.4   3.7   LS   3. 3.6   3.6   3.6           3. 3.6 *. 3.4 3. 3.6 .e          4 3.6       3.   0 .*  .6        -0. 0
Nea  an oJv                          2.6   2.6   2.4   2.4   2.5   2-6   2.    2.6   2.6   2.   2. 5   2.6   2.4   2-6   3-5             2- Z6    2.6     Z'       6
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 -iL                                      02.,6 - _ e6 6    9.6 $
row*   swZe Zs 25 2.                                               .     .     .     .      . c.    z.e 2. Oe   I..   2.e   2.o   Z.0                2.0     Z.#    Z.0         -0.3
red I    foragtet                       0.2    G.I    e.2'  I::    C.2 .2 14:2  OM   .Zl  0.2,  0.2    :.z     :; 0.2 c2    1 o2  2   *. 0.2     0.2 ow        .2    0.2
a4X* -Asl't                o.6   C.6    -10.6 J.__.    Ov__0.   ... o.1  o6e6  0.6                                                                          O .6 .  o.I . . . .
roe4 eresr                              7:.5  t.s 7.5   t.S   .s        t.    tSS 7:       7.5 I. I. I.    t.S   tS,  t.S   75,  77.5                7.s     7.5    t.s
bCh  ep                                 .     . 0   .    C.       0.6   0.5            O.   e  06    a    04   0.6   a .4    0.    0.   0.*   e.,    .       * 
Z"    tw*02o.  0.  a                                       0.  0.G6 0.                                               I    .     0.  0.6   0.6        0.6  o 0.6  e  o . 0.6o 
f_Seeth eOme "IS           711   0-                                                                                    I               ..I     7         ..    O .7 .
oriler tnee_                            5.      .     2 2.    :02024 W       0202       L                           102       L       102.            .    S2   n1.o             1.0
slc    32.2   32.s   2.2  43.7  NgZ  *4.Z Sls 53.* SS.S 5a.2 5|.2 S . M.1 5172 2 5172 1 5n |.2  :.7   $0.2                                      O
saCost
te"                                   I.S   ;.S   l.S   1.2   ;.2   1.2   O.S    O.S    e.s    a.s    e.s    0.9    o.$    a.  .     .      .       .       .                  c
Few erqw                              O     S. 0.; 0.t    O .f    .   0.9   O.$    e.9         O-*  0.9    0.0  0. .9   O.s   00.s   0,s    '.:I   0. I,     ; O     S        6.I
et*"_349o    and pa.'u                                                                        la.; -m    la.   Io.   la.   lo.  to. '4. '0. '         ' ' Q
teto_zers~~~~~~~ ~  Is p3ad  -,     .   7.3   t.7   5.3  9.2   9.7  :r 5  OSl. 10.9          9C.  109I.   09   091.                          3    7.31C          
tor^r*--";                  o.l   o.e   o.s   o.t 0.    7 0.  7 a. Io.X 1.I   I.   0.7   C.7 I    I      .7  0.7   I.   I.    0.7        0:1      C:     I           -C;
R7ear  4alu.1   *.:   *.1  4d    4.  *3    *.2   *.2 4                                        *2 4  *2  a   Z  *.   *2  .2   *2   52    a.    *.          4        2         C.0
YWA.1 a4;                              . 0          . .9   C.9   0.9 C.9                       0.  t.  .       0.    0.9 .    C.9      0.9 .    0.9     C.$    9.
=3-pe *rsemag Ce""                                                                                            T J.'                                        1         1          7   :4.  -4 4  -.
=Sub-to    egdu          C"c                                     I  1       S  1R     SF    -" ^             :.3
Aitcru:ture Ta                          0.6   e.6    0.6     -                                    4    C.A   0.4   O.#  o.c   0.4    .4   0.4   0.4  0.6       .6   0o         -C.2
pSee t Tom                             -     -                                          '                                                6 .4       ;             4   .6 0. :
.7    1 2 T 5 s.                                                                                                                          ---s 5:T .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--:-n ts                                                                       6:T I    s   -             -ssr;FT  . :7
Yb rly   e 2stamSema                  2            5.              5 2             55  . 4.1 :5R  4" ;R :R S:T   55 55                                                            0.6
Treanf ter  ....... P:ronaeh P...ad    14.*  14.2  14.9   It.6  164.   It.3  l. 4 Ut.0I   n8.s  It.SIs.S US  U.S Is.$   U.S  U.S I.S    14.s lU.9   II.S                         C.3
-st~~~~~~~~~~~~~_4 = 17.feel  16 4  .7 3S 17- 4                     .*3 I5t. 5Is.$-5 .5 1.5  ICS  U0.    IS  11.q3  %*SII.$    14.9               49 I.               0.3
Ottefl_ Aft _r  t"ae                     -i it4   :;           -I-   - j-F ',-;               -WT -N     -Fr  -Sr  -n     - r  -w     - i .n _X       r    --rT _  4    Xs
mo       1ly5 *f4 3t                                                                            -IF 2.~  3.1   3.; 3.     q6   3.0       3.  . 0 4      -        -     -
1-1 The Av*aq  Mw Nota ld tUee_ for Relocatee ta  aue  a  ts  1



CtuLaa
Xiaolangqi PAsettlement  0olect                                AMNEX  8A
High Income Household--Rlocatee, in Houhm farm model
VWZ,7. min-No t_aaMk%)                                         Table  2
din Yuan) /a
*eptemI,er--ctober
Without Projec;                                     With. Prolect
1Wtho29   30                2    _  3        4        5       6                S     9to29   30
Food crops                            2,311.5 2.111.5 2,311.5 :,536.5 1,567.5 1,598.6 1,629.6 1,629.6 1,629.6 1,679.6 1,629.6 1,629.6
Cash Crops                            2,116.2 2,116.2 2,116.2 1,178.2 1,234.8 1,212.6 1,090.2 1,090.2 1,090.2 1,090.2 t,090.2 1,090.2
Fruit                                   700.8  1700.    700.3    54.0    54.0   980.2 1,764.0 2,619.0 3,474.0 3,901.5 4,329.0 4,329.0
Heat and eggs                           725.7   725.7   710.7   711.3    71:.3   '11.3   711.3   '1L.3711.3 711.3   711.3   711.5          3
sob-teow  Ibi  twofttioe.               1,854.2 3Tr2z 5,639.2 3,48o.0 3,567.7 4,562.7 37T11.I 6,050.1 6,905.1 .7332 67                7,760.1
j' vsq*wta
Fodder and forage                       497.3   497.3   497.3   192.3   214.6   237.0   241.7   241.7   241.7   241.7   241.7   241.1
48ea; And egg.                          543.5   543.5   537.5   385.9   38S.9   385.3   385.9   385.9   395.9   365.9   385.9   385.9
Manure--Animal                           52.6    52.6    52.6    52.3    52.3    52.3    52.3    52.3    52-3    5Z.3    52.3    32.3
Other animal products                     98.3    98.3    97.3   100.5   100.5   100.5   100.S   100.5   100.5   100.5   100.5   100.5
#b-tatal Bypanductea                    I 191.8 1,91.8 1,184.8   731.0 7753.4  777    780.   780.5   780.5   70.    5 78.                   5
vs5  Val"u Of Pz ati0m                           7,46.  7,024.0 4,211.0 4.321.0 5,336.4 5,975.6 6, 80.6 7,685.6 8, 113.  8,540.6 8,540.6
Food crops                              310,9   310.9   330.9   325.9   325.9   325.9   325.9   325.9   325.9   325.9   325.9   325.9
Fodde: and forage                       497.3   497.3   497.3   192.3   214.6   237.0   241.7   241.r   241.7   241.7   241.7   241.7
Manure--Animal                           52.6   52.6    52.6    52.3    52-3    52.3    52.3    52.3    52.3    S2.3    52.3 .2.3
Sub-8otal am-warl ta                      860.9   860.9   860.9   T57.T   592.9   615.2   620.0   620.0   620.0   620.0   620.0   670.0
Os-tar  Se85t0
Food crops                              749.8   749.8   749.8   749.8   749.8   749.8   749.    749.8   749.e   749.8   749.8   749.s
Cashl Crops                               46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1    46.1
Meat and eggs                            80.2    80.2    8o.2    S0.2 _S02    80.2    80.2    80.2    80.2    80.2    80.2    90.2
sub-TOWal 0 ,-Wanawtism                    86.    87 6.1   876.1   861   8-76.1   87676. 81076.1  S7.1   876.1
Not Vaue Of pz.dote                     1,309.1 5,309.1 5,297.1 2,764.4 2.;32.t  3,847.2 4,4?9.5 5,334.5 6,189.5  6,617. o T.;44   - ,044.5
Pezaead Coaimpti
Meat and eggs                                -       -      2.0
Otbas nilavs
Othec Income                            369.1  319.1   3695.  :,650.0 1,650.0 1,650.0 1,650.0 1,650.0 1,650.0 1,.0 1,650.0 1,650.0
r110.5                                5  7-8. 2 T, -6-78    -4,678.2 5,6 7.2  ,6 414.4 4,S02.1  4,497.2 6,129.5 6,984.5 7,839.5   ,267.0 8,694.5 8,694.5
pseSuatisa Coat
Seedlings                                 -        -        -   188.1
Seeds                                 364.5   364.5   364.5   123.8   123.M   123.0    96.4    96.4    96.4    96.4    96.4    96.4
Food crops                             69.6    69.6      3.9   306.7   280.3  .'i3.8   264.2   264.2   264.2   264.2   264.2   264.2
Seedlings                              12.0    12.0    12.0         -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Eretilizers and pesticide             944.2   944.2   944.2   63s.8   700.7   790.8   82'.7   892.7   942.9   942.9   942.9   942.9
Other inputs                          220.1   220.1   219.6   177.5   177.5   177.5   176.1   176.1   176.1   i76.:   176.1   176.1
Manure--Animal                          80.7    80.7    80.7    22.3    22.3    22.3    11.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5
Young animals                          8.7    84.7    79.7    81.9    81.9    @1.9    81.9    S1.9    81.9    81.i    81.9    81.9
Mub-total Opatim coats                21530.1 2,s530.1 2,4-5.3 T98    2       ,020.9   08-4.05 2,088.6 2,153.7   2,203.7 2.203.' i- r3t 2,203.7
Sub-.-3et   ps_ oSuetl   C.5                     2,530.1 2,4583.9 2,170.51 2,020.9 2,084.5      .6 2, 153.6 2,203.7 2,203.7 2, 203.7 22203.7
tams
Agriculture Tax                           88.6    88.6    8S.6    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4    44.4
Sp,ecial Product Tax                         -       -        -       -        -   138.9   256.5   304.8  513.0   576.8   641.3   641.3
Sub-Totoz -ASes                             88.6    88.    88.6  464.4  44.44  -T3.4   309   429.2   557.4 62  7    61 .7   68s57
0UT1&IS                               2,619.7 2,618.7 2,547.5 2,24i.9 2.065.4 i2,27.9 2,399.5 2,.582.s8  ,762 2,825.0 2,889.4 2,8 9.4
Ceb view Dego . V1nm.miu                 3,059.15 3,059.5 T0    2,199.5 2,4-36.6 3,229.2 3,740.   4,401.8 50 27.4 270          ,8 o  .cs:1 5,8o.1
lam t.3.y ginLts S.iase Wtaame5nq 3,935.1 3,935.1 3,982.7 3,071.6 3,312.8 4,105.3 4,r.6.1 1,277.8 5,954.4 6,38.1 681.2 6T33,681.2
Soua"ce Of lIAMo.
Transfer from Previous Period         2,530.1 2,530.1 2,530.1 2,170.5 2,020.9 2,084.5 2,088.6 2,153.6 2,203.7 2,203.7 2,203.7 2,203.7
Less transfer to Next Period          2,530.1 2,530.1 2,170.5 2,020.9 2,084.5 2,080.6 2,153.6 2,203.7 2,203.' 2,203.7 2,203.7 2,203.7
sub-Total seuse" of mi.aace                    -       -   3W   _ 149.6               -4.0   -65.3   -5O.2        --
cah 11.. "ter PLnaSAGM                   3,059.5 3,059.5 3,466.2 2,349.1 2,373.1 3,225.2 3,65.0 4,351.6  ,7.O 5,442.0    0               I
Qhagi  X et mat"
Contribution from own savings                -       -   -71.2         -       -       -        -       -        -        _        _       -
Residual value of
.ransfe  tor Next Period                  - 2,530.1         -  -                                        _  _                    - 2,203.7
Sub-5ttal Chane itnemt Worth                -        2,130.1   -112-     -       -                                          -        - -  -2203.7
Waz= Ily Seme1ts After W1nhmctU  3,935.5  6.466   4T;                      3,249.9  4,101.2   55    5,22.7   5 954.4  ,38      ,4.2
R*Ztw    pox la;l3y-fty of Labez            12.0  1-9.8    13.5    11.5    19.4    24.0    22.8    26.2    29.8    31.'    33.5    44.5
IP.A * None, S?v - 10,823.25
Ns !orm Xican Village n Gucheng Town to Nouhe
wed Sep 29 21:06:05 1993
3-1 High Incoae HousehoLd--Relocatee in Houhe farm model



forer                goF d a cug fc Nd
vszW, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~03ANA no                              I_g oezemt
t                        VltX  soa et                          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vo  Ouu todl 1 st    |t C
t    *0    s    Z  _Z_   *   _g   *    X  _  10   11   1.7  1X    K   *o N  le      I     ~     1o        *
SO  crepe.?U.  1.2  t.l   .1  10.2 12.1  12l.2  li.  12.2  it.) la.) 12.2   .. 12.2 17.. I.l, s2.    14..   14.2  12.1 3
re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s O'l  JOL  *.1s ".I t.1 *.t "31                                  11" .')    "l6 * S.^^*X^.  .  *,   o *^, ..
smig-sore Mr  -t -   2    -n'-2 o 4    -tk- 4-  41                               7H 4 . 1- l 41 -o 41 -d 4I v4
rma god                            0.0.  e.1.    .   16l0 20   .                        .      2.0   7.0    .    2.0   a. e .  2.C   2. e   i    .0 2.6
et *S fet                 0.2~~~~~~~~~~`   0.2  _6a  6.    .   0.6  0.   0.6    . 0.6                S. e.   0.   0 ..2 -   0-   0.2  0     - 40   -  0 4  0.2
z  *b  jS-  s  *-ak-* _ _e e e _t74 _ _ _p; l er < -e 3.g  +
wot  66d tors*                      S, 7 S:    _        3.            `1   1:1,  21         O; ':'a  0:            t4l               j -      S1  7' Se
Omwto- -AgumS bi   fee2
foS ctcp                 2~~~~~~~~~~~.l  2.   2.1  10   4. 1.2          0.0 0.  .eooeoooo*eeoeo e .1                             2.6sh o.o        eg
es   RodlecP t                                                        S                            
~~zgcu$$ ~         ~ ." o.. o                                .       o.    o.*     .     .   J.    v.    .     .    .  .   o.      . .o.
Wastz_t g  *sacem ,  X              a$  4.4 -N 10 _! e41 ,H 41 4i_ -H -_  _.4 -.4 _e -N. 15 l4                                                A0  *@.f
~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.
9.0~~~~~~~~~ I. d... IR  llrol bRo0  0                1                7       F         U     9_



(la T"4   ad     )*11 a
_80 10 2 0864  /4                       * _ o SAgaT&
to* to*0 ^ @ aN                                                     +    @   @   m.4 .  o                 0   0  loOn. tnc..sf.
29                          0   4  to                             I     It                              8           
row ceq                             s2      6     6    7.2   0.)  20.0  22.)  32.3  12.2  2.3    12.3    It. 22.3 23 .3          it.) 1.22.)   26.0   26.0   22.2    .0.3
C=.9   a                              66   6. __46 6..6 _.0  20.4  0.0   9.0  0.4   9.0  9.0   .0  0.   0.0  9.0  9.0   0.0    6.6    6.6   0.0                        0 4
r64                                   2.91  2.0  2.6   0.6  0.0  0.0   6.9   0.?1 2.6  22.3  2).  23.1  is.) 23.2  22.3M) 2).)   I            .,   1   .0   2))3       42
Mat :0                                                                     o                                                                         e _    e0;
446,       4                         4.   4        .4 .4 2    3.2  .4  2.6   .4             . 3 .6   26 .    ...-...0.
oz~~~~~~~~~~~   4   04  ii X       fl   t   felH 0                                       06l  0f447              0.8    0.       0.    0.            -
Oo*#.ou 2en
-o   oao 2.   3.0  2.6   t.2  t. 2.0 2.0 e                                           e      2.   2.    t. 2.               ,e0 e. t. 2.    t. 2.  3.  e. t.          -.0.)
108814. fo,                         0.2e  0.2  0.2  0.2 0.2  0.2   0.2  0.1  0,.1 .2   0.2l   0, l2   0.2  0.2!  0.2  0t.2  0.2i    0-.2    0.2   0.2                 
001009 -444~040
"_t td t7 5 tZ B l  g g g $ o g 6 g g g g g X g g g g t t-t - t7                                                                                                                                                        t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-is I --t--al 'm 4. -') .C]- a"
tt b   tos         etfe                .    109"  st.H         41.7  Hl.     -+I7 s.m s.   m  -hl  44 1*.7 t.7            411 -O As7t*77.7a3asz                7       e2
row                                    .     . 7         .   1.4    .                                    S 1  2. .   7.    .   7.2  2.0  7.0  7. i.:    7. 7. 4  - o i
044C r49                             0.4  0.6,  0.           N"14 0.0  0.6           O'    's 0.6 66  .6   0.60.   0.6   0.6 t. 0.4 0. D.6   0.6 0.6 0.    0 6
9006 4       I8.0  ..                  0.   0.6  04 04A            -,4 1   0.8   0   4.6"        ; 00 .0. .4  06   0.40.44.  04                       0.6    00
o-..    ...   .o...                  -rn-  rnW w    ti             ,.                                    3nr           1a           B        Bj  -r     -r 3Xqe 
C=4141-1---j---  -                                                                                                              --+1--
100" *  WS~0
attAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :":
044842090                                                                                             t 4.. *- -t -H                     t_ 1"      t4
Is".                                .             .     .0  2.2  0.   0.9  0.   0.0  0.0   0.0  0.   0.   6.0            ,   0.0   .        .        0.   .
"00l.a"     20.   0                            0          1 02 0  0:          1     1 07 0              0   07   0     07     .2    .7.0    0.0:0?                  0.
04I.,9.0 S2.0   309   3    0    4.)   438   02   421   42   4.2  4.2   62   4.2  4.2   02   0.2  0.2    3.0    I..   4.2                                            0.                                                                                    -
LpOOolt..ro To.            ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.9  0.0  0.0.0.4  0.4  0.0  0.0   0.0  0..  0.4  0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0                                       -4.0.
bol..4 - 2
ff000601 9400 #1061.1P V.124         32.3  20.2 1.  20 .1  22.0  21.7  21.0  20.3  le.?120.7  20.7  20.7  20.1  20.7  20.7  20?  20.1   26.2I   Si.2   2.7            0.2
0444-244,84I 00100004 PSM              r   -irn 21                                            - IW   3     7 - t"  -3W3 -3fI  -t)  -0- -IC7 -y6: --Ii  - i --W',  i -  "d
SoO"sMg.   #00100   42.0
#4.21-001*660044          -                 -       ~~~~ ~~~22     27  00.2  270  24.16  to.3  22.0  22.6  23.0  16.3  34.2            3 
20. * 12.20S.  *CbM  I S S00.-*
24dft 010 00*04545 %229.293    60  1       0.9
Uo ho 31.0102144 2013~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t- m fo I&46OAOF*SOt



- 17 -
3.8         Residential Reconstruction for Towns. The total town population who will
move to new towns is 17,212 people, of which about 70 percent now have agricultural
status. Most of the 11 towns inundated are situated in valleys or plains where the natural
soil conditions are favorable for agriculture, and rail transport facilities are available.
They form the political, economic and cultural centers in the local districts and play an
important role in the local economy. Of the 11 towns, 10 towns have populations of
1,000-2,000 people and one town contains approximately 5,000. One town will officially
cease to exist and its population will be dispersed among the other towns. A second town
will become a township seat. The remaining nine towns will be relocated but will retain
their present administrative functions. The average basic town population size will remain
the same and floor space per capita for buildings at the new site will be the same as that
of the old site. Infrastructure will be improved for such items as streets, power supply,
water supply and sewers, etc. New town sites covering 177 ha of land will house these
people. Seventy-eight main and side streets, totaling 32.6 Iam, will be built as well as
10 water supply projects.
3.9         Relocation of Special Institutions. A total of nine special institutions
including an experimental farm, a forest plantation, a nursery farm, a seed farm, a
navigation office, a canal management office, a hydropower managemnent office and a
suspension bridge office will be relocated. Seven significant facilities above county level
also have to be relocated including a jail, a water project, and a hydrology station.
3.10        Infrastructure Reconstruction. Infrastructure inundated includes roads,
transmission lines, communications lines, broadcasting facilities, water supply works,
hydraulic stations and other special items (see Annex  . The artial highways will be
rebuilt to the same grade with the same quality of material as before. New residential
areas will be serviced with simple highways. Wharves and ferries around the reservoir and
a total of 1,750 km of roads will be built. Every vitlage will be served with electricity,
requiring the construction of 632 km of power lines and other facilities. Telephone lines,
broadcast receiving facilities, water supply, and drainage facilities will be provided for
every illage.
Transfqr of Resettlers
3.11        This component males special provisions for transfer of all salvageable
matials and personal belongings, factory machinery and other goods from the present to
the new sites. The County Resettlement Offices (CROs) are conducting information
campaigns to create public awareness of the Xiaolangdi Project and of the transfer
arrangements. Usually six months prior to moving, individual households are provided
detailed information on compensation, new sites, housing and occupations. At this time,
each household's private assets are resurveyed and documented by the local authorities.
This will indicate the precise compensation entitlement of each relocatee household.
Villagers will be free to either build their own new houses (with or without building
materials supplied at wholesale cost by the village) or contract construction from local
contractors, including some of their own numbers. Many villages will actually be
constructed by an advance group of village workers, while others remain behind to salvage



116
Table 6
China
Xiaolanqdi Resettlemr Project-Wonmengtan subproject
Relocatee-Ayuan to WerAwnqtan SU80-266M Para 14odel
FZWACM BUD02 (AQ=M=M)
(In Yuan HundroW /a
September-October
Without
Project                            With Proiatt                                     future  future Percentage
Ito                                                     7 to   10            Present Without  With    Change
22    30       1      2                                  9   to 29   0
PSOcuatten
FQW  crops                                  10-S  10.5  10.5  22.8  22.8  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.0  22.8    10.5                 10.5   22.8           1.2
Cash Crops                                  11.4  11.4  11.4  10.9  10.9  10.9  lo-$  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                11.4     11.4   10.9          .0.0
fruit                                        6.4   6.4   6.4        -       . 1.4   2.0   5.6   8.4   03    9.4              6.4      6.4    8.4           0.3
Neat and eqqs                                6.3 __L. 3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3                6.3      6.2    6.1              -
sub-total Ift= ProductLon                     34.6 34.6 34.6 39.9 -T9-9 ri -.4 42.8 7-5-6 -R-.4 78-4 -U-4 3-4.6  34.6 4-8. 4
By vredticto
fafter and forage                            2.1   2.1   2.1   5.3   5.1   S.1   S.3   5.3   S.3   5.3   S.3                 2.1      2.1    5.3            1.5
Meat and eqqx                                2.0   2.0   Z.0   2.0   2 0   2.0   2.0   1.0   Z.Q   2.0   2.0                 2.0      2.0    2.0              -
Othor animal products                        0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3 - 0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3                 0.3      0.3    0.3
Sub-toul gyprodbacto                           4.4 4.4 4.4 7. ri, 7.6 7.6 7.7 7-6 7-6 -7 6 7-6 -414 -414 -7 6
ac"s Value Of pmodwtum                        39,0 39.0 _T9_0 -r7-5 -T?-5 -U-9 -i-0-3 M-1 =6 0 =6 0 =6 0 --79-0 3-9 0 S-6 0                                   0.4
am-VA= USQ,
Food crops                                   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.0   2.4   2.8   2.E   2.0   2.8   2.8   2.8                 2.0      2.0    2.8              -
Fodder anod fcraq6                           0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                 0.2      0.2    0.2              -
Other animal products                        0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3 ___2.3                   03    0.3              -
Sub-Totax On-razak use                         3.3   3.3   3.3   1.3   3.3   3.3 -3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3                  3.3       3.3    3.3             -
On-ram Cousumption
Food ccaps                                   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   1.4   7A    7. 4i   1.4               7.4      73      7.4             -
Cash Crops                                   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7                 1.7      I.,      1.7            -
Meat and offs                                1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1A    1.4   1.4   1.4   2.4   1.4   1.4                 1.4      1.4      1.4            -
Sub-Total an-nm Consompexaft                  10-5 10.5 10.5 =*.$ =Q.S 10.5 =0.5 ro-S 70-5  10.5 -fo-.s -10.3 -10.5  10.5                                       -
not value Of Production                       25.2  2S.2 -is-2 -373-7  33.7  35.1  36.5  39.4  42.2 -4-2-7 -C2-.2 -25.2 -25.2   42.2                          0.7
gmaka"d Ca"mptim
Food crops                                   0.7   0.7   0.1         -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.7      0.7        -            -
Cash Crops                                     -      -       -   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7                -               1.7
Sub-Tatal Purchased Conswoptzon.                      0 7   0 1   1 7   1.7   1 7   1 7   1.7   1 -1  11.7   1                 0.7       O.-I    1.7          1.4
othez mmelow
Other lncme                                 10.7  10.7  10.1  11.8  11.8  11.8  "            11.8  11.6  11.8  11.0    IO.-I    10.7   11.8                 0.1
35.2  5.2 35.2 M39 -r3-.9 -j-5.3 46.7 -ig-5 -2--.3 -2-3 -2-.3-  35.2 3-5.2 5-2.3                             0.5
Production cost
rcmestmmt
sewiinqs
09-ti"
Vwaha"d MVuts
Sea"                                    1.1   1.1   1.1   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2                 1.1       1.1    2.2           1.0
Seedlinqs                               0.0   0.0   0.0         -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.0       0.0       -            -
Fertilizers and posticido               4.S   4.8   4.8   8.2   8.3   8.4   S.4   8.4   8.4   9.4   8.4                 4.8       4.8    8.4           0.8
Other anima.L products                  0.3   0.3   0.3   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1                 0.3       0.3    1.1           2.6
Other inputs                            2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6                 2.6       2.6    2.6              -
Young animals                           0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0. -7               0.7       0.1    0.7
sub-total purchased zwuto                  9 6 9 6 9 6 4=9 =46 =S 2 -If-I -5-1 =5 1 5=1 -1 5-1 -9 6 -9  1S.1  O 7
ULted Labox
Faca labor                              0 6   0 6   0-6   I IS   0 4   0 4           2 1 4   1 4   I.,   1.4            0.6       0.6     1.4          112
Sub-total Cpemtutg Costs                    10.2 10.2 =            JGA  15.5 L5.6 16.4 16.5 L6.5 - UK  -1 d.-S I-o - z -10. 2  16.$
sub-Total Pralbaction coat                    10.1 10.2 10.2 17.6 =5.5 -1 s -.6 -16-4 -7635 -I 6-5 76-5 =63 -I or. z   10.2  U.5                              0.6
Taws
Other inputs                                 1.2   1.2   1.2                                         0-4 :la        2.5 =    12       1*2  ---2.5          1.0
OuTrtm                                                                                                                      II.S                              I
11.5 11.5 =I.S 17.6 15.5 =57 =6.4 =6.5 L6.9                           19.1               11.5  19.1           0
7                                    3-                       23.7                            0.4
Cash now setowe Irzaanowal                   =3.7 =3 7  5            6 3  20 4  22 7  30.3   3 0   5.4  33.3 =3. 3                      23.7   33.3
-r- -                                     7-5.79 -r3-8 7-38  34.2 -34.2 43.8  O S
fazmk irmziy awnents seraze ftnauxing  34 2  34 2   4.2  3 r$- -3-8.-g  40.2                  -4 3 -.S
Soutveo of finumm
Transfer from Previous Period               10.2  20.2  10.2  17.6  IS.S  15.6  16.4  16.5  16.5  16.5  16.5                10.2     10.2   16.S            0.6
Less Transfer to Nexz Peciod                10.2 _10.2  17.6  IS.S  15.6  16.4  16.5  16.S  16.5  16.5 _Lfll   -10.2                 10.2   16.5            0.6
sob-Total sousces of finance                      -    -=7.4  2.1 '% 0-1 0=8 -0.2
cash inow Attez irinanauq                    =3.7 7-3.-7 -176-4 -le-4 MET -re-9 -3-a-7 73-To =s.4 73-3 -T3-3    23.7    2i.-I  .13.3                          d.4
ges"tal value of
Transfer to West porz"                          -  10.2       -                                                    16.S         -    10.2   16.5            0.6
-  -T-  - -!O-                                     T- -C
n= raiLLIY am-ejts After Finsawing  34 2 4 6 -rG 9   9=O$ =9 4 -rO -7 3 5 S-9 1=3 8                                                           --60. 3
-  -                 -  -                 -0-                           10.2 34.2 44.5
pAtuLue Vim  randAy-Day of Labor                0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2 .  0.2   0.2          T    0.2 __R.2 - 0.2   0.3                   0.2    0.3           0.9
IRR - 74.31, NPV - $2.39
%a from Dayu and Xiazhi Xiang tO WOrAengtan
W" Doc 22 07:55:20 1993
2-1 stalocatee-jiyuan to Wanmtiqtan EL180-266K I'arm Model



-117 -                                                   ANNEX 8
Tle7
XiaQlaaWdi Resettlement Project-I4engj in county
Rolocatee--Near Move in I4engjin Farm Model
(in Yuan I4uarAedl /a
$4a3tembar--Octcber
Without
Project                           With Project                                   future  future Percentage
1 to                                                    8 to   10          Present Without  With    Chync
29    10     j      2     3     4      8     6     7     9   to029 30-    I           0    -30 -
W"ai Productio
Food crops                            1i.   1i.   1s.8   7.9   9.9  10 6  11.9  11.9  11.   11.9  11.9  11.9    15.6    15.8   11.9             -0.3
Cash Crops                              6.4   6.4   6.4   7.5   7.8   7.9   6. t,  6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6        6. 4    6.4    6.6         0.0
fruit                                   2.3   2 .3   2.3     -            -   4.4   6.6   1.7   8.8   8.8   8.8       2.1     2.3    8.8         2.9
Keat and eggs                ~~4.7   4.7   4.7  10.1  10.1  10.1.  10.1  10.1  10.1  10.1  10.1  10.1       4*7     4.7   10.1          1.1
Meat and eggs    ~ ~ ~ ~ 292   9.   2.22S527.e  28.6  3. 352333.  37.4                                                                  0.3 9.
Sub-total. Main Peodckmtion              2. 2922. 2.5303.2 6. 37474                                                    2.2     29.2   37.4           .
fodder and forage                       2.7   2.7   2.7   1.8   2.0   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1         2.7     2.7    2.1        '0.2
Neat and eggs                           1.2   1.2   1.2   4.4   4.4   4.4 -4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4          1.2     1.2    4.4          2.8
Other animal products                  0..2  0Y.2   0.2   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.6   0.4   0.4   0.4         0.2     0.2    0.4         0.9
sob-total Dyproam"t                       4.1   4.3.   4.1   6.-7  6.9   7.0   7.0   7.0  7.0  7.0   7.0   7.0    -4.1    -4.1.  7r.0               0.7~
Gross Value, Of froducujon               33.2  33.2  33.Z  32.2  34.7  35.6  40.0 412.2  41.3  iTi4  F_ iTi 444    33.2    33.2   44.4              0.3
On-lamz Is.    -
Food crops                              1.9   1.9   1.9   1.3   1.8   2.0   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3         1.9     1.9    2.3         0.2
fodder and foraga                       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.)   0.3         0.1     0.1    0.3         2.1
Othor animal products                 ..S .   0.2   0.2   0.4i  C.4   0.4   0.    0.    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.           .       .       .          0.9
sub-Tota  On-lacm U..                     2.2 2*T2   2.2   2.0   Z. !   2.7   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0  3.0  -3.0          2.2   -2.2   -3.0           0.4-
On-Sa4m Consumaption
food crops                              4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7         4.7     4.7    4.7            -
a4sf Crops                             2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.9   2.0   2.0         2.0      2.0    2.0-
,eat and eggs                           1.7 17 171           7.    1. 7   1.7 1          1 7   1.7   1.7   1     1            I.,-.
s..o-Total on-ram  Coaasuton             8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4         8.4     8.4    8.4 
get value Of Product3ion                 22.6 -22.6 22.6  21.8  23.8 24.5   8.6 -0.8  31.9  33.0  11.0  33.0  2-2.6  22.6  3-3.0                    0.5
Purchased conacption
Food crops-                                      -     -   0.0                                        -        -- -  - - - -    -       --
Cashi Crops                             0.;   0.7   0.7                                                                .        .         
Heat and eggs                           0.1   0.1   0.1       -                              -     -     -      -.....j       0.1- .....
Sub-Total Puzohmsed Canaueption           0.7   0.7   0.7   0.0       -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     0.7     0.7       -           -
Other Zaflova
Other Income                            6.5   6.5   6.S  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6         6.5     6.5   12.6          0.9
ms't.ow8                               28.   28S  28.5  34.4  36.4  3.1  41.2  43.4 44.8  4.6  48.6  45.6    285             28.5  48. 6          0.6
vroduotian coat
zaveatment
Seedlings                               -      -     -   0.8      -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -       -       -       -           -
Operating
Seeds                                 4,9   0.9   0.9   ..I   1.1   1.1   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9         0.9     0.9    0.9-
Food crops                              -     -      -   2.7   2.2   2.0   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7          -       -    1.7-
Seedlings,                            0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3         0.3     0.3    0.3         -C.0
Fertilizers and pesticide             4.6   4.6   4.6   4.4   4.8   5.3   5.5   6.0   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6         4.6     4.6    6.6         0.4
Other inputs                          2.8   2.8   2.8   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0         2.8     2.8    3.0         0.0
other animal products                 0.6   0.6   0.6   0.3   0.3   0.3   8.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         0.6     0.6    0.2         -0.6
Young animals                         0.7   0.7   0.7   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0         0m.?    0.-    2.0           .
Sub-total Operating Costs,             10.010.0  10.0  13.8  13.7  14.0  13.5  14.0  14.6  14.6  14.6  14.6    10.0    10.3   14.6                0
Sub-Total Production Cost                10.0  10.0  10.0  14.6  173.7  =14.   11.5  14. 7   14.6  14.6 -14.6  14.6    10.0   -10.0   14.6          0.8
Tame.
Other inputs                            0.9   0.9   0.9   -         -     -     -   -0-.2    0.2,  2.6   2.6    0.9 0.9   2.6                     1.8
OUTIT.0W                               10.9  10.9  109 -1 4.6  13.7   1 4.0 -13.5  14.3  14.9  1T.9 -17.3  17.3    10. 9  10.9  1-7. 3            0.6
Cash. flow Before financing              175  17.5  17.5  19.   22.7  23.1 _27.7  29.4  2r9.6 -30.7  28.-3  28.-3170.5 7             28.3           3.6
ram family Skmaftat  Weore financng  25.9  25.9  728.9  28.2  31.1  31.5  36.1  37.8  38.0  39.1  36.7  36725.3   -28.9  3-6.7                      0.4
Sourvoc of finance
Transfer frcm Previous Period          10.0  10.0  10.0  14.6  13.7  14.0  13.8  14.0  14.6  14.6  3.4.6  14.6    10.0    10.0   14.6             0.8
Lass Tratnsfer to Naxt Period          10.0  10.0  14.6  13.7  14.0  13.S jj-0  14.6  14.6  14.6  14.6  14.6  -10.0  _10.0   14.6                 0.S
Sub-Total Sourme, of finance                 -     -  -4.6  0.8 - 0.3   0.5  -0.8  -0.6        -     -     -      -       -        -      --
Cash Flow After financing                17.5  17.5  13.0  20.7 22.4  23.6 27.2  28.8  29.6  30.  283  28.3 -17.8T   17.8  278.3    ~ 0.
Rasidual. value of
Transfer to Wart Reciod                   -  10.0      -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -14.6 -10.01 14.6                        0.8
ram  family Denafzto After Fi.nancing  25.9  35.9  21.3 -29.1  30.8  3r2.0  38.6 -3v.2  38.0  19.1  36.7  81.4    25.9    35.9   51.4               0.4
Retussis per framsly-Day of Labor          0.1   0.2   0.1 0.    0.1   0.1   0.1 .09a ,j.   0.1   0.1   0.                .       .       *         0.2
Incremental Return per Znorinntal
family-Day of Labor                        -     -     -   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.3          -        -    0.3           -
IRA - 104.66, NPv - 62.02
\a from meiyao. hengshui. matun to pingle. sonqzhuang, chaoyang xlang
Wed Dec 22 08:,01:82 1993
2-1 Relocatee--Near Move in Mengjin Farm Model



8
':able a
Chlaa
Xiaolauqdi Resettlement PrCd_t__ftAgjiA oqmty
Sclocatee--Mave Back io MengJia farm model
nuom  (AQMNINM)                              -
(In Yuan Hundred) fa
Sootembe --Octobec
With Proiect                                           future   futuro Poscentage
I to                                                              9 G  10   Pt ..... rt Without, Wth  Chance
29     3C       1   _L_    3         4       S   _1_    7          9   to 29  30          1        30        30         1
ULLO VzoductLon
row  Crops                                    IS.1  1S.1  1S.1  12.6  12.S  12.5  12.S  12.S  12.5  12.4  12.5  12.S                    1S.1      15.1   12.5            -0.2
cash Crops                                     6.4   6.4   S.#   9.1   9.1   9.1   1.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7   7.7                      6.4      6.4      1.1           0.2
ftuit                                          2.3    Z.3   2.3        -       -      -   4.2    6.3   7.4   0.4   0.4   0.4             2.3       2.3      0.4           2.7
Meet and oqgx                                  4.7    4.7   4.7   8.3   0.3   8.3   9.3   6.3   8.2   9.3   9.1   0.3                     4.7      4.7      8.3           0.9
Sub-tatALL KLin fto4hwtUm                       is s -fe-s =0 s -57 -rg-g =9 9 =2 a =4 9 =5 I -W-0 7=0 71MU -11 s  28.31 1-1.0 ---TT
By ftoducts
Fodder and forage                              2.6   2.6   2.6   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.2    2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2                    2.6       2.6      2.2          -0.2
Meat and eqqs                                  1.2    1.2    1.2   3.1    3.11   3.7    1.7    3.7    3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7               1.2      1.2      3.7           2.1
Other animal products                          0.2    0.2   0.2   0.4   0.4   0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4                   4.2       0.2      0.4           0.6
Sub-total gyproducu                                      4.0  4.0  6.5   5  6.5  6.2  6.2 -6.2 4.2 -6-.7 4-6.2 -4.0 -4.0 -6.2
gross Valmo Of Ovaduation                      -32-T =2.G =2.6 =6. 4 36.4 36.4 'TO.-O 7-1.1 =2.2 -47.7 =3.3 =3.3  32.6 _32. ra 43.3 zz:GF336'
on-raxn U"
Food crops                                     1.9    1.9    1.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   M            2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9            1.9       1.9      2.9           0.6
Fodder and forage                              0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                 0.i       0.1      0.2           I.S
Other animal pcoducts                          0.2   0.2    0.2   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4                  0.2       0.2      0.4           0.6
Sub-Total (hi-facs Use                           2.2  2.2  2.2  3.5  3.5  3.5, 3.5  3.5  3.S 3-5  3-S 3-5 -2.2 -2.2  3.5                                                   076
an-tams Consumption
food crops                                     4.7  .4.7   4.7   4.7   1.7   4.7    4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7                    4.7       4.7      4.7             -
Cash Cropq                                     2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0    Z.0   2.0   2.0   2.0                    2.0       2.0      2.0
Meat and eggs                                  _7    1.7    1.1   1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.1    1.7    1.7   1.7    1.7              1.7       1. -7
8.4                                             -0 4 -8
Sub-Tatia on-run cmowwtaAa                               8 4  9 4  0 4  8 4  0 4  0 4                               & 4  8 4  9 4 -9 4 -8 4   0.4
Met viaut Of Peoductuin                                 22 0 2 0 4=4 4=4 _W_4   -29-7 _T0_3 -31-3 -rl-3 31 3 -22 0 2-2 0 31.3    0.4
Purebas" Consumefton
Cash Crops                                     0.7   0.7   0.7         -       -           0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4              0,7      0.7      0.4          -0.3
Meat and eqgs                                  0 1   0 1   0 1                                  ___Z                              -       0 a .     0.1        -             -
Z*-Total vmvhaoad conampuen                      0.7    0.7   0.7                            0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4             0.7       O. .1    0.4         -0.4
Otbar Zmfto"
Other Itteeme                                  6.5    6.5   6.5  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6   2.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6                     6.S       6.S    12.6           0.9
IIWLMS                                        27.0 _j7_.8 27.8 7=0 _37_.2 3-7.0                  41.4 _f2_4 73-7 _0 _.5 _T3_5                     21.8 4-3. 6             0.6
Pteduation C"t
Xnvestomt
Seedlings                                      -      -       -   0.8       -       -             -       -             -       -                   -       -             -
of-tim
Seeds                                        0.9   0.9   0.9   1.0    1.0    1.0    0.8   0.8   0.8   0.e   0.e   0.0                  0.9       0.9      0.8          -0.1
Food crops                                     -      -       -   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3                     -         -     0.3             -
Seedlings                                   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3                     0.3       0.3      0.3         -0.2
Fertilizers and pesticide                   4.6    4.6   4.6   4.7   5.1   S.5   5.9    6.2   6.8   6.8   6.8   6.8                    4.6       4.6      6.8           O.S
other inputs                                 2.7    2.7   2.7   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1                    2.7       2.7      Z.1           O.L
Other animal pzoducts                        0.6   0.6   0.6   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3                     0.6       0.6      0.3          -0.4
Young aninaLs                                0.7   0.7    0.7   1.6   1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6   1.6    1.6   1.6    1.6               0.7       0.7      1.6           1.4
Sub-total OperattW Costs                       9.8  9.e  9.0 11.4, =1.8 =2.3 12.2 72-6 =3.2 13.2 13.2 -f3-. 2- -9.a ___9_7   13.2                                          0.4
Sub-Total, Production Cost                        9 0 9.8 9 9 =2.2 1=9 -12-3 -IT-2 2=6 =.2 13.2 73-72 =3 2 -9 8   9.8 13.2  0 7
Taxes
Other inputs                                   0.9    0.9   0.9         -      -      -       -      -   0.2   0.2   2.5   2.S            0.9       0.9      2.5          1.7
OUTFLMS                                       10.9 10.8 10.0 12.2 =1.8 72-.3 =2.2 -12-T =3.4 =3.4 =5.7 =6.7  10.8 -10.3 1-5.7    0.5
C"h now ftfate nnammng                           11.0 =7 0 =7 0 4=9 =5 2 4=8 _r7 -1 28 a =9 0 0=1 -17-9 7=8 1-7 0 -17 0 27.8 0 76
jS-.4 2S.4 -iS-. 4- '73-3 _T3_6 -33-2 -75-5 77-1 _T?_4 -TO _.5 36.2 36.2                                                     7
Vacm iram"y seftente &ewe nAmmouq                                                                                                          25.4      25.4    36.2            0.4
SWAr**$ Of ViUMA"
Transfer from Previous Period                  9.0   9.0   9.S  12.2  11.0  12.3  12.2  12.6  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2                      9.9       9.0    13.2           0.4
Less Transfer to Next Period                   9 8   9 0  12 2  11 8  12 3  12 2  12 6   3
_L_2  13 2  13 2  13 2  13 2             9*0       9*8    13*2            0.4
Sub-Total Souzoes of FLAUDAe                                   -2.4   0.3  -0.4   0.1  -0.5  -0.6              -      -       -      -         -                  -            -
C"h ]now After financing                         17.0   'T477 25.2 =4.S _r4_9 =G. 6                              =0.1 -2-7-0 =7.8 _17. 0  1,.; 2-7.8                         0.i
VA*X*Ml value of
Transfer to we"  posiod                           -   9.8                                                                      13.2          -      9.0    13.2            0.4
V.- ranily Seandits Agtov nnanaUq  ZS.4 _r5_2 _f3_0 =3 6 -B-2 =3.3 =S.O 6=6 77-4 _fS _.S _T6_2 -4 9-4 -25.4  35.2  4 W-4                                                     0.4
Ratur" per gamzly-Day of Labow   -0 1 0-2 -0 I 0.1 -0 I 0-1 0-1 -0.1 o-i -0.1 0.1 0-2 -0.1 = __02 -0. 2 ___0_.T
Incremental, pAtux" per Incremental
famly-Day of Labor                                -      -       -   0.1   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2                  -         -      0.2
IRR - 343.21G mpv - '70.88
ka within meiyao, henqshut. matun xianq in aenqjin
wed ;ec zz Oa :01:28 1993
1-1 Relocatee--Kove Back in Menqjin farm model



China
XLAoJaaOI MosettlImimat Pcoject-Masa Cousty-Wow 100
RolocatImo-fter savo below 180a in XirAn County Cato so"t
vnvAomrAL VAX1M (Ageramom
(In Ymm HwWcod) /a
sorotember-fttabor
withftt
Firaidet                            Ultb protect                                       PUtUtO  FlAtUtO POCCOM690
to                                                        9 G-173-    Pr*  witbout A tv  Shanas
30     1      2      3      4    .I_    6   _2_ __L_ to 29 _10                     30
bo" tc**Aottm
raw  crops                               12.1  12.1  12.1   7.9   1. 9   7.9   7.9   7.9   1.9   7.9   7.9   7.9    12.1    12.1    7.9                  -0.3
Cash ccc"                                 6.3   5.3   5.3   5.5   5.5   5.5   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.8   3.0   3.0              6.3      5.3    3.0         -0. 3
flemit                                                                        . 1.3   2.6   3.6    6.1   6.1   6.1                      -    6.1
Most end o""                              G.;   6.0,  G.;  16.-6  ls.-G  16.6  16.6  16.6  16.6  16.6  16.6  16.6            6.0      6.0   16.6          I.;
Othet *algal I-oducto                     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   a I   0.2              0.1      0.1    oll            -
lob-sat" KMA ftodmttaa                    -fs-4- -F2-.4 -H-4 -s a-i -3705 =o I -9-7 -To-9 -ii-o 73-1 333 33 6 -23-4 -21 t
ay ftartoato
toddor stA forage                         2.2   2.2   2.2   1.5   1.6   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   I.S              2.2     2.2    9.6         -4.3
mat 604 eggs                              1.9   1.9   1.9   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.0   2.8   2.8   2.9   2.0              1.9      1.9    2.0          0.6
Otbot animax ptcckuc%8                    0.2   0.2   0.2   6.6   0.6   0.6   O.S   0.6   0.5   0 6   0 6   0 6              0.2      0.2    0.6          1.
kb-totat owoomto                              -3--  4-7   4-7 4 7 4-7 -41 -141 -4.7 -fj
4-3    .3                                                                           ':'    '. 7         6.1
-9-2 -TS-2 -is-2                                     0.4
27.7  27.7  27.7                                                                              7   38.
Qco"  Valim  Of DcaduaUen                                      34 0  34 0       0-31 4-36-6 -16-6                             27.1    27
Q4-vwa a"
low  ago"                                 2.3   2.3   2.3   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.8   2.0   3.0   3.0   3.0              2.3     2.3    2.0          0.1
rod"g 4FA forage                          0.1   4.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2              0.1     0.1    0.2          0.7
ouwt aaipal ptoducto                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.4   6.4   0.4 __G.                                                                          0.0
4    0.4   0.4           0.4   0.4      0.       a 2    1-1
MP-tat"  04-ft=  use                        2.6 -2.6   2.6 -7.3 -3.6   3.6   3.6 -2.6 -73-1   2.6 -3.6   3.6                   2.6              3F. 6       0.4
04-fam Cmampum
rogw crops                                4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.3   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1              4.1     4.k    4.1
Cash Ceop                                 1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   3.9   1.9   1.9   1.9              1.9      1.9    9.9
ArUit                                     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2              0.2     0.2    0.2
imat NW o"s                               1.0           3.0   t.0 __).O   1.0   i.j   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0            1.0      1.0    1.0
sub-t"  an-14simm Conommuon                  7.2 7.2 =7 2=7a  7.2 -7.2 =. 1 -7. 2::?.I -3-1 -7.2 -7.2 =7                                    7-7-2             -
we% Vhlue at Production                   77-9           17.9  24.0 '70-0  24.0  21.6 -F4-S  26.0 -0-3              -M.3    17.9    0.9   27.1              0.6
totoba"d Caftemomption
Ouit                                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   4.2          -     -      -      -                   0.2     0.2        -           -
other Za"Oem
OLbeg Inca"                              It 0It.0  11.0  24.1  2#.%              2"    24-1  24-1  24.1  24AI  24-9    113           11.4   24.1          1.2
zatom                                   -fs,; -Fs-i  28-   4-1.1, -Tr;  47.9  4-5.1  48.9 -Vo-.o  51.6  61.5  St.&    20.9 -Ri -613                      0.0
pro&wt4d* CDP%
D"Irts"t
S"dliags
aperati"
emob"od ZWAU
$sods                                 0.9   0.9   0.9   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.$   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8             0.9      0.0    0.8         -0.1
raw  cvqw                               -     -      -   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.1   0.5   0.6   O.b   0.5                       -    0.5            -
$Immilingo                            0.3   0.3   0.3              -            -      -                   -            0.3      0.3
Fertilizers and postitide             3.1   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.0   I.;   5.4   6.1   6.;   6.1   6.1   6.1             3.7      3.9    S.i          0.6
othor itkpKs                          3.9   3.9   3.9   4.1   4.1   4.1   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2             3.0      3.9    3.2         -0.2
Otbrt ARLMI ptodu"m                   0.4   O.#   0.4       -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -            *It      0.4       -           -
vomo &ALMOIS                          0.6 __9.6   0.6   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.6   2.4   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0             0.6      0.6    2.0          2.3
9          -   -TE1 7F-                                  I - -T--
Sob-total Ouxabased lapat.              9.9    .9   9.9  11.1            2.1 =1 9 =2.6  12.6  12.6  lY.6   2.6            9.9      9.9   12.6         .*.I
Mr" tabov
face labor                                                             1.9   0.9   0.8   0.0   0 a   0.9   0.8                           0.9
3-T -if- =.S 13.6                =1.9
kb-tatai "Iurating coot*                                            12.8 jQ.1    .1                    .5               = ,.;         _    13.           0.4
ftla-Total VCO"tion cost                                                                              -fi-S  13.5 -13-3        9.9 - 9.9   13's -           614
-9.9 -9.9 -9. 913.7 I -2.   14.1  12.8               -13-.5
T&x*o
Othor inputs                              6.2   0.2   6.2                                       0.1   SA.   1.5   1.5        0.2     0.      1.5         6.6
*umAW9                                   10.1 10.1           13 I r2_8 I 4-1 2=9 =3 6 1-3.6 -13.6 -IS.0- =li--O   --                        1S.0
'TO-7 -18-.7    -24-2 'TS-2    'T4_9 lb.S -16-4 :Ea  --                            II   OA
Coah now IMLIC"  Irioxacta;                            18 7'                                                -I"    36.6 =1 01-           1   36.5          1.0
Tom  lra"ly ea"txts Betate ftamoUbg  26.0  26.9    ., -it-4 -U-3 -rl 7  -4 57i -4 F36 4-3. S' 45.1  43.7                  -20i -2 K-9 -4 f.-?               0.7
ookwmm of wiaswm
Tionstot ftm  Previous Period             9.9   0.9   9.9  13.1  12.0  l#.l  12.8  13.S  13.5  13.S  MS  13.S               9.9      2.9   MS            0.4
Logo 1944410c to N"t foriod                                                2.0  13.5  13.5  13.5  13.5  13.5  33's          P.       9.0   13.5          0.4
- JU -
sub-To"I sougma of Irsoomm                              -3.0   1.0  -1.3   1.3   0.7
Cuft Irlow Aftec rLammiag                                14.8   5.2    .9  35.2  34.2  35.5  36.4  17.9  36.5  36.6    1 i-7                _R7.5           1.0
MoLd"I value of
ttanoter to ftxt ftriod                     - 9.9         -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -  13.6         -     9.9   ILS           0.4
fun famly ea"fito After rumming -H.$ -N-9 =2.0 3:2=3 1=1 -4 2-1 =1 4: -r2 -6 -rl -6 =S -1 -t M -P-1 -26 9 -3 C-8 =7 1  O 6
astufts per lamstly-Day, ot Labot           0.2   0.3           0 1          i-    01
0.3    .3          0.)   0.3   0.1   0.3   01          Q        0.)    0.4          0.6
japagamental vstums P" uaxmmtai
ra"ty-Day .9 Lobw                                             1.0   1.1   1.9   1.7   1.0   1.9   2.1   1.9   2.3             -              2.3
1-1 Rolocat.00-Modc GOV4, below 1000 in 141141% C944tY f-ktm Model



- 120 -
Table 10
China
Xiaolangdi Resettleaent Project--wonmengtan Subproject
Reloc4tee--XYn4n to Wonsengtan--100--265a farm mwdel
(In Yuan Hundred) /a
Seoteber--October
Without
Proiect                     With Protect                             Future  Future Percentage
I to                                          7 to  10         Present Without With   Change
29   30    1    2    3    4    S    6    9  to 29 30            =       30      30      4
Food crops                          11.3  11.3  11.3  7.6  7.6  7.6  7.6 22.8 22.8 22.8 22.8   11.3   11.3   28.0               1.0
Cash Crops                           3.7  3.7  3.7  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  M0.9  10.9 10.9 10.9    3.7    3.7  10.9            2.0
Fruit                                1.6  1.6  1.6      -    -  1.4  2.8  5.6  8.4  8.4  8.4    1.6    1.6   8.4                4.3
Meat and eggs                        5.3  S.3  5.3  5.3  S.3  5.3  5.3  5.3  5.3   5.3  S.3    5.3    S.3   5.3                   -
sub-total Ibs Droduatzon              21.9  21.9  21.9  23.7  23.7  2S.2  26.6  4.6  44   47.4 47.4 A  21.9   21.9  47.4          1.2
By oduOt-
Fodder and forcage                   2.4  2.4  2.4  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  5.3  5.3  8.3  8.3    2.4    2.4   5.3                  1.2
Meat and eggs                        1.9  1.9  1.9  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1    1.9    1.9   2.1                  0.1
Other animal products                0.2  0.2  -0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2                   -
sub-toan    produts                    4.   4.5  5. 52   5.2S 5.?    8.6  7.6  7.6                    ?.6  4 4 i                  0.7
Gmoa Value Of Dtoduotia               26.4  26.4  26.4  29.0  29.0  30.4  31.8 52.2 58.0 88.0 55.0   26.4   26.4 55.0             1.1
Food crops                           2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.1  2.3  2.3  t.3  2.3  2.3  2.3    2.3    Z.3   2.3                  0.0
Fodder and forage                    0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2. 0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2                  0.1
Other animal products                0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2.  0.2  0.2  0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2                   -
Sub-Total On-Fm use                    2.6  2.6  2.6  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7  2.7    2.6    2.6   2.7                  0.0
am-Fam C     _an tlon
Food crops                           7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2    7.2    7.2   7.2                    -
Cash Crops                           1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2.   1.2    1.2   1.2                    -
Fruit                                0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3    0.3    0.3   0.3                    -
Meet and eggs                        1.8  1.8  1.       S 1.  S 1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.S  1.8    1.8    1.S   1.5             -
Sub-Total On-ra-  Costtieon           10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3  10.3   10.3   :0.3  10.3          -
Not Value Of PwoduatogL13.5  13.S  13.5  16.0  16.0  17.4  16.8  39.2 42.0  42.0 42.0   13.5   13.5  42.0                        2.1
lUOhas.d Ceosumtiom
Food crops                           0.4  0.4  0.4  7.2  7.2  7.2  7.2          -    -    -    -    0.4    0.4         -          -
Cash Crops                             -    -    -  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2              -       -   1.2
Fruit                                  -     -    -  0.3  0.3    -    -    -    -    -    -             -       ..     -          -
Sub-Total Plhased Canste              0.7   04 0    4   i- ;    8.7  8.4  3.4  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2    0.4    0.4    1.2           1.8
Other Zmfloee
Other Inccme                         8.8  8.8  8.8  11.8  11.8  11.8  11.8  11.3  11.8  11.8  11.8    8.8    8.0  11.8          0.3
MkwLOV21.9  21.9  21.9  19.L 19.1  20.8  22.3  49.8  52.6 826 82.6   21.9   21.9  S2.6                                          1.4
3sodmwtum Cost
Seedlings                            -    -    -  1.1                      -       -    -    -        -       -      -          -
Opting
Surchased Tapate
Seeds                            0.7  0.7  0.7  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2    ^.7    0.1    2.2                 2.1
Seedlings                        0.3  0.3  0.3    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.3    0.3               -          -
Fertilizers and pesticide        4.9  4.9  4.9  4.1  4.2  4.3  4.3  8.4  8.4  8.4  8.4    4.9    4.9   8.4                  0.7
Other animal products            0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2    0.4    0.4    1.2                 2.2
Other inputs                     2.3  2.3  2.3  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6    2.3    2.3    2.6                 0.1
Young animals                    0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6                 0.0
Sub-Total Purchased inpat          9.2  9.2  9.2  7.6  7.7  7.8  7.8  18.1  18.1 18.1 18.1    9.2    9.2  18.1                0.6
Mird Labor
Farm labor                       0.3  0.3  0.3  1.6  0.4  0.4  1.2  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4    0.3    0.3    1.4                 3.9
Sub-total Opasatia  Cost*            9.5  9.8  9.8  9.2  8.1  8.3  9.0 116.8  16.S 16.5 16.8    9.S           9.S   16.85       0.'
Sub-Totl. koductLon Cost               9.8  9.8  9.5  10.2  8.1  8.3  9.0  16.8  16.5  16.5 16.5    9.8    9.S   16.5             0.7
Taves
Other inputs                         0.7  0.7  0.7    -    -    -    -             0.4  2.5  2.8    0.7    0.7   2.5            2.6
OUSTZ4                              10.1  10.1  10.1  10.2  81_   8.3  9.0  16.5  16.9 19.0 19.0   10.1   10.1  19.0            0.9
Cah Flow lfome Finauaing              11.7  11.7  l1.7  8.9  11.0  12.6  13.2  33.4  35.8  33.7  33.7   .7 7    11.7  33. 7       1.9
ram  Family Benefits lefore Finasaus  22.0  22.0  22.0  19.1  21.2  22.8  23.5  43.6  46.0  43.9 43.9   22.0   22.0  43.9         1.0
Sour"a  of Finane
Transfer from Previous Period        9.5  9.8  9.5  10.2  8.1  8.3  9.0  16.5  16.5  16.5  16.5    9.S    9.8  16.5             0.7
Less transfer to Next Period         9.5  9.5  10.2  8.1  8.3  9.0  16.8  16.5 16.5  16.5  16.5    9.5    9.5  16.5             O.
Sub-Total Souzces of tinae                  -  - -0.8 2.1 -0.1  0.8 -7.4          -             = -     -         - -    - -  -
cash Flev After Financig              11.7  11.7  10.9  11.0  10.9  11.8  5.8  33.4  38.8 33.7  33.7   11.7   11.7   3            1.9
RPidal value of
transfer to mast Pasod                 -  9.8      -    _    _    _    _    _    _            16.5       -    9.S  16.8         0.7
Fm  Famly Bents Alter                 22.0 =insnote  231.4  2 21.1 22.1 '16.1 43.6 *6.0    9 60.4   22.0 3:.4  60.4               0.9
Returns pcr *4mly-Day of    or         0.2         0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1        2  0.3  0.2  0.3    0.2    0.2   0.3            0.4
Xancmiltal Returns per lnov4m_tal
Famly-Gay of Labor                     -    -    -    -    -    -    -  0.8  0.5  0.8  0.7               -       -   0.7          -
IRa. - i.21, NPV - 98.06
\& from Cangto, Xiwuo, Belzhi. Shishi and Shigin to Wonnengtan
Wed Dec 22 07:54:58 1993
1-1 Aalocatee-Xinsn to Wonnengtan--180--26S- fam model



Xlaolangdi Pesettlement Prolect--Kalfeng                             al        1.
Household inccome for Relocate. in kaifeng farm model
WI18          "I  S1(MNNIn
(In Yuan Hundred) /a
Setember--Qctober
Without
P~r*iect       With Prolect                  future  future Percentage
I to               2 to  7 to         Presentt Withtout  With   _Change
29    30     1      6    29    30       1       30o     30        8
ik1n 2zodnt1oa
Food crops                              10.2  10.2  10.2  13.3  13.3  13.3    10.2    10.2   't. 3            0.3
Cash Crops                               2.4   2.4   2.4  15.7  15.7  15.7        2.4     2.4   11_7          S.4
Fruit                                      -     -      -   7.0   7.0   7.0         -       -    7.0 
Meat and egga                            4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9        4.9      4.9    4.9-
Sub-total ~It veodt1Loa                    751751.   407) 40.7  40.7    17.5    17.5   40.7 ----
By traomata
fodder and forage                        1.7   1.7   1.7   2.8   2.8   2.8        1.7     1.7    2.8          0.7
Meat and eggs                            1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6        1.6      1.6    1.6 
!4anure--Animna                          0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        0.2   0.2  0.2-
Sub-total 3yproaotat                       3.4   3.4   3.4   4.6 46   4.6    -3.4            3.4    4.8         0.3
Gre.a Valua of vZoducton                 *2i 9         20.9  45.3  45.3  45.3    20.9    20.9   45.    ~        1.2
On-jw=r We
rood crops                               2.3   2.3   2.3   1.    1.80  1.8    -2.3        2.3    1.8         -0.2
Fodder and forage                        0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1,  0.1   0.1        0.1     0.1    0.1            -
Manure--Anima                            0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2 02  0.2          0.2         0.2           -
Sub-Total On-ftn Va.,                      2.6   2.6   2.6  2.1  2.1  2.1           2.6      2.6    2.-        -0.2
Food crops                               4.1   4.1   4.3   4.3   4.3   4.3        4.1     4.1    4.3         0.1
Cash Crops                               2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2  .2.2        2.2     2.2    2.2-
Fruit                                    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        0.2     0.2    0.2-
Meat and eggs                            0.9   0.9  -0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9        0.9     0.9    0.9-
Sub-Betel On-Warn Coas~t1ea   7.3   7.3- 75       .5   7.f5   7-5-   -7.3    7j T5                 0.0
Net V.lu. Of Dzodeqtt..                   111  111  10.  35.7  35.7  35.7  11.1    11.1  3-5. 7                 2.2
Prb4CoM=Wtloa
Cash Crops                                 -      -     -   0.3   0.3   0.3         -        -    0.3           -
Other InS1w.
Other Income                             8.8   8.8   8.8   6.0   6.0   6.0        8.8      8.8   .6.0        -0.3
ztu~Au                                  .9.9  19.9  19.641. 4  41.4 '41.4    19.9    19.9   41.4              1.1
Food crops                                 -     -      -   0.5   0.5   0.5         -       -    0.5            -
other Cost                               0.0   0.0   0.0       -     -     -      0.0      0.0      -
Seeds                                    0.6   0.6   0.6   2.4   2.4   2.4        0.6     0.6    2.4          2.9
Seedl.ings                               0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3   0.3   0.3        0.1     0.1    0.3          1.3
Fertilizers and pesticide                3.2   3.2   3.2   4.7   4.7   4.7        3.2     3.2    4.7          0.5
M4anure--Anima                           0.3   0.3   0.3   0.8   0.8   0.8        0.3     0.3    0.8          1.3
other inputs                             2.4   2.4   2.4   4.5   4.5   4.5        2.4     2.4    4.5          0.9
Young animala                            0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6        0.6     0.6    0.6            -
Sub-Bettl irofet1te  Coat                  7.2   7.2   7.2  13.8  13.8  13.0        7.2    -7.2  1-3.8          0.9
Agriculture Tax                          0.2   0.2   0.             .      .          0.2  9204               1.1
coO!lLi                               '-7- -f-7  7.4  13.8  14.2 '14.2            7.4    -7.4  1-.            0.9
Leak 12... Beore ilaaaelaq12.5  12.5  12.   27.6  27.2  2.2    12.5    12.5   27.2           1.2
Warn Wtmly senefita Before Wiamanla   19.7  19.7 -19.7  35.2  34.8  34.8    19.7    19.7  -34.8    ~ 0.8
Souzae" of winanmn
Transfer from Previous Period            7.2   7.2   7.2  13.8  13.8  13.8        7.2     7.2   13.8          0.9
Less Transfer to Next Period             7.2   7.2  13.8  13.8  13.8  13.8        7.2     7.2   13.8          0.9
Sub-ettea Souzae. of 12m.                               66       -     -      --
Leak flow After Wlaaaoa                   1f2.5  12.5  -5. 6  27.6  27. 2  27.2    12.5    12.5   27.2          1.2
SeduLa. Value of
forg to Emit Peziod                      -   7.2      -           -  13.8         -     7.2   13.8         0.9
Warnt~13emf1t*ftetN1anii.fq ~19i7  27.0  13.1  35.2 -34.8  40.6 -19.7 --                486            .
Peturnw per 1Wad4y-Day of Labor            0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.                                     0.0ol
paemnatal Natuxua. per  aaermatel
Wau.2.y-Day of Labr                        -      -          0.2   0.2   0.2        -        -    0.2
rPR - 233.58, NPV - 103.19
\aRelocatee from Xitant to Kaifeng
Wed B;c 22 08:10i1$ 1993



-122-
Xiaolazzgdi   China                                              Tbe1
Xialad  R:eseteetProj ect--ZHNO*MW                                       ale1
(In Yuani Hundred) /a
September--October
Without
Project    - With Project                    Future  F utureo Percentage
1to               2 to  7 to         Present Without  With    Chanae
29    30      1     6    29    30             --r30    3-0 
) ga radution
Food :-rops                             12.~0  12.0  12.0  24.2  24.2  24.2    12.0    12.0   24.2            1.0
Cash Crops                               3.9   3.9   3.9  30.5  30.5  30.5        3.9      3.9   30~.S        6.8
Fodder and forage                        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.4   0.4        0.0     0.0    0.4         14.5
Fruit                                      -      -     - 79   7.9   7.9            -       -    7.9            -
Meat and eggs                            5.3   S.;   5.3  170.4  10.4  10.4       5.3     5.3   10.4          I. 0
sub-total Uin Protaotion                 2r1.2  31.2  21.2  73.4  73.4  73.4    21.2        MY.  7i3.4  .--75
By lroduota
Food crops                               0.3   0.3   0.3      -      -     -      0.3     0.3       -           -
Fodder and forage                        1.9   1.9   1.9   4.4   4.4   4.4        1.9     1.9    4.4          1.3
.Meat and eggs                            1.8   1.8   1.8   1.'7  1.7   L.7       1.8      I.8    1.7        -0.1
M4anure--Anima                           0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3        0.2     0.2    0.3          0.4
Sub-total 8yprodutat                       4.1  -4.1   4.1  -6.3   6.3  -3   -4.1    -4.1   -6..                0.5
awess Vablue Of Preduatiem                25.4  25.4  25.   79.0  79.8  79.8    25.4    25.471      -9TT2.
On-aM. Vse
Food crops                               1.7   J.7   1.7      -      -     -      1. I     .1       - 
Fodder and forage                        0.3   0.3   C.3   0.3   0.3   0.3        0.3     0.3    0.3          0.1
Manure--Anima                            0.2   0.2   0.2   0.s   u.3   0.3        0.2     0.2    0.3          0.4
SuAb-Total On-ram Use.2 22 2.                                   .    0.6   0.6      22   2 .-2      0. -0        .7
On-ram Oonasuu,tiem
Food crops                               3.9   3.9   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2        3.9     3.9    4.2          0.1
Cazh Crops                               2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2        2.2     2.2    2.2 
Fruit                                    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        0.2     0.2    0.2
Meat and eggs                            0.9   0.90.9 0.9  0.9    0.9             0.9     0.9    0.9 
Sub-fttal on-ram Cansutio                  7.2   7.2   7.4   7.4  7.4  7.4 __.    -7.2   -7.4                   0.0O
Met Value Of Produ*ti.o                   16.0  16-.0  1f5.7     71.8 1J   71.8    16.0    16.0  7-1.8          3.5
Purobased, Conalmqtion
Food crops                                 -      -   0.3      -        -       -           -       -
Cash Crops                               0.6   0.6   0.6   1.9   1.9   1.9        0.6      0.6    1.9         2.1
Sub-total Purcas"ed OaesWpte              0.I. .9 19 19   1.                       0.6      0.6    1.9         2.1
Other inflaws
Other Income                             8.8   8.8   8.8   4.6   4.6   4.6        8.8      8.8    4.6        -0.5
imnow ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 2. 24.2 3. 74                 .5  74.5M 74.5     24.2  2-4.2  7-4. 5          2.1
Production Cost
Invesutmt
Fertilizers and pesticide              0.0   0.0   0.0      -      --           0.0     0.0       - 
Other inputs                           0.0   0.0   0.0       -     -     -      0.0     0.0       -  ____
Slob-total Znv.swat Costs                00      .0    .0      -     -            0.0     0.0
Food crops                                    O.;   O.   1.7   1.7   1.7        O.       O.    1.7 
Seeds                                  0.      .7 07 1.9   1.9   1.9            07       .7     1 4         1.6
Seedlings                              0.3   0.3   0.3       -     -     -      0.3     0.3       - 
Fertilizers and pesticide              3.4   3.4   3.4   7.7   7.7   7.7        3.4     3.4    7.7          1.2
Manure--Axiima                         0.4   0.4   0.4   1.0   1.0   1.0        0.4     0.4    1.0          1.4
Other inputs                           2.4   2.4   2.4   5.8   5.8   5.8        2.4     2.4    5.8          1.4
Young animals                          0.6j  0.6   0.6   1.4   1.4   1.4        0.6     0.6    1.4          1.6
sub-totail Operting costs                7.9   7.9   7.9  195  19.5  19.5         7.9    -7.9  19.5    ~ 1.5
Sub-Total Production Cost                  7.9   7.9   7.9  lI-3  19. 5  19.5       7.9      7.9   19.5         1.5
Taxe
Agriculture Tax                          0.4   0.4   0.4       -   0.2   0.2      0.4      0.4    0.2       --0.5
ouTs~~~~~a.u ~~~8.3   8.3   8.3  19.5  19.7  19.7                       8.3     8.3  1-9.7          1.4
Cash nlow Befoe linaoingU                 16.0  16.0  15.4  55.-0 -54.8  54.8    16.0    16.0   54.8            2.4
fam  ftu.ly Benefits Before Vlamanin   23.1  23.1. 22. 8  62.4  62.2  62.2    23.1    23.1  6-2.2               1.7
Sources of Finance
Transfer from Previous Period            7.9   7.9   7.9  19.5  19.5  19.5        1 9      7.9   19.5         1.5
Less Transfer to Next Period             7.9   7.9  19.5  19.5  19.5  195S        7.9      7.9   19.5         1.5
Sub-Totma Sournes of rinace                   -     -1=1.6   =    _-    -=            -        -      -___
Cash Plow ifte  r tinnein                  16.0  16.0   3.8  55.0  54.8  548 16.0   -16.0   5-4.8.
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Perio"                     -   7.9      -     -     -  19.5        -      7.9   19.5          1.5
ra-tr,ly Binnefi.tsaftewrPi-.Aing  ____-' 31.0 11.2  62.4  6r2.2  81I .7    23.1   -31.0   8-1.7                 1.6
Returns per Vanily-Oay of  Akbor            0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.2    -0.2   -0.2          0.1
XncremetaL Retuzas per XnArM=taL
rValy-Day of Labor                         -      -     -   0.2   0.2   0.3         -        -    0.3           -
Wed ~Dec 22 0O8:15:43 1993
1-1 Household Income for Relocatee in Zhongmu farm model



-123-Amx8
Table 13
China
Xiaolangdi Rtesettlement Project--in YuanyAng
Household Income for Relocates in YuanY6an fakrm model
(In Yuan Hundred) /a
Sontembor--Octobor
withocut
P-roiect                         With Project                                   Future  Future Percentage
I to                                                   8 to   10          Presen  Without With    change
2 30  1     2      3     4     5     6                 .  t429    30         30    30 
I~npeeduetiem
towd crops                             11.6  11.6  11.6  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7    11.6    11.6   31.7
cash Crops                              3.2   3.2   3.2  13.0  13.0  13.0   9.1   9.1   9.7   9.7   9.7   9.7       3.2     3.2    9<72.
Fodder and forage                      0.2   0.2   0.2      -     -      -     -     -     -     -            -     0.2     0.2       -
Fruit                                     -     -     -     -     -          9.0  13.5  15.5  16.0  16.0  18.0        -       -   18.0
Meet and eggs                           5.8    . 5.8   5.8   1 .8   5.8 5.8   5.8        5. 5.8   5 . .8    5.8         .     .0    5.6  ____
am-toaLaAAApgeo*AtL= Nm                        r i 9~ 20.9  50.6 50.6  50.-6  56.3  60.8  62.8  65.2 6r5.2  65.2   -20.9    20.9  6-.             2.1.
fodder and focage                       1.7   1.7   1.7   4.3   4.3   4.3   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0       1.7     j.7    4.0         1.4
meet eVd egg                           Z.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1        2.1     2.1    2.1 
x4fturs...Anima                        0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3        0.3     0.3    0.3-
Sub..totaJ.5M'pseftot                     4.   4.1   4.1   6.7  6.7  -6.7  16. i 6k    6.5   6.5   6.5  -6.5    44.1           .1   -6.          0.
Oraes Vblua Of Nkedwtion                 24.9  24. 9  24.9 537.3  57.3  57.3  62.7  67.2  69.2  71.7  71.7  71.      2.9     249   71            1.0
on-ram Wee
Fowd crops                              1.e   1.9   1.9     -     -      -     -     ..    -     -            -     1.9     1.9       - 
Fodder and foraeo                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1.  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1        0.2     0.2    0.1        -0.4
Hafture--AnimA                          0.3   0.3   0.3.  0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.3     0.3    0.3           -
iub..!ea4 on-mum Woe                    2.4  2.4  2.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  -0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4    -2.4                   2.4    0.4        -0.6
f-wasm, Camttemei
FOod crops                             3.6   3.6   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9        3.6     3.6    3.90.
Cash crops                              1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5       1.5     1.5    1.5-
Fruit                                  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        0.2     0.2    0.2
Sub-Total OIs-1ma Cow4j.em                6 3   6     g6. 66   -6.6  -6.6  6.466.6  6.           6.    6.6  6.6    -   6.3            6.6~ _____
Nat Value Of Pge~~et*.am  16~3  16.3  16.0  50.3  50.3  50.3  55.7  60.2  62.3  =64. 7  64.   647    16.3    163     4.30
Cash Crops                              0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.3     0.3    0.2        -0.5
fruit                                  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       -     -     -     -     -      -     0.2   0.2        -           -
VA-!otAL vearobad @enmotiaM               0.5   0.5  0.7  -0.3  0.3  -0.3   0.2  0.2   0.2   0.2  -0.2  0.2    -0.5           0.5   -0.2        -0.6
Othex Mofieu
Other Income                            8.8   8.8   8.0   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.   4.5   4.5   4.S         .      8.9    4.5        -0.5
E L9 1                  ~~~~4.6  24.6 24.1  54.5   4.5 54.5  60.1  64.5  66.6 -69.0 6C9.0  69.0  2-4.6  2-4.6  6-9.0               Z.0
Seeds                                 1.0   1.0   1.0   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2       1.0     1.0    1.2         0._
Food crops                              -     -     -   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9         -       -    1.9           -
Seedlings                            0.4   0.4   0.4      -     -      -     -     -     -     -     -      -     0.4     0.4       - 
FertiliersV and p.sticidd            4.4   4.4   4.4   9.3  10.4  11.8  12.1  13.2  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9        4.4     4.4   13.9         2.2
Manure--ftima,                       0.5   0.5   0.5   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        0.5     0.5    0.2        -C.6
Other inputs                         2.2   2.2   2.2   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3        2.2     2.2    3.3         2.5
Young animals                        0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6        0.      0.6    0.6           -
gab-total aerzatluOets                 92--    -9.2  17.1  18.2 19.6 -19.320.41.2  21.2 21.2  212 99.2-92 21. 2                                 1.3
Sub-Total 1smdueii  Caot                  9.2   9.2   9.2  20.5  18.2  19.6  19.3  20.4  21.2  21.2  21.2  21.2    -9.2        9.2  2-1.2         !.3
Tame.
Agriculture Teax                        0.3   0.3   0.3     -      -     -     -     -   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4      0.3     0.3    0.4          3.6
Special Product tea-                                  -     -      -                              - 3.9 3.9    *..3.                              -
Sub-.Total. 2am                           0.30 3.    0 3             -           -_     -  0.4   0.4  4.3  4.3    -0.3         0.3    4.3        16.2
aizFMu                                 9.5  -9.. 9.5 20.5 1K8.2  19.6  19.3  20 334 21.62162S 25.5 9flA            j        9.5   25.5    ~ 1 7
Cash nlow boSom. Vlelssm               ..gI  =j  14.6 34.0  363 -3TT  470.7  44.1  45.0  47.5  43.6 43. 4               .            43.6         1.9
ta~mm fawiy gwameite Bat. lame Baacdg  21.4  21.4  21.2  40.6  42.9  41.4  47.3  50.7  51.6 5T4.1  50.1  50.1  2-1.4    21,4 ~7T1.3
SaaUes of timan
Transfer from Previous Period           9.2   9.2   9.2  20.5  18.2  19.6  19.3  20.4  21.2  21.2  21.2  21.2       9.2      9.2   21.2         1.3
Less Transfer to Neat Period            9.2   9.2  20.5  18.2  19.6  19.3  20.4  21.2  21.2  21.2  21.2  21.2       9.      9.2   21.2          1.3
mak-Total seutme" of nu""e.             ___         -11.3   2.3  -1.4 0.   -1.1  -.7                -     -      -       -      -                   -
Cask now, 8*83 tlamamod                  15.1  15.1   3.3  36.3  34.8  351  39.6  43.4  45.0  47.5 4r3.6  43.6   -15.1   -15.1  4-i3.6    ~ 1.9
SealdeJ al sin 41
Transere to teat Pealed                   -   9.2     -      -     -     -     -         -     -     -  -21.2         -      9.2   21.2         1.3
enm tIeMy samefita After tAasaei.    21.    07    .    29  41.4  41.7  4 6.2  -50.0 571.6 54.1  50.1  71. 3    fJ              0 7 -71.3    ~ 1.3
botm       V ea t.ly-Vey at  ebom         0.2 02 01 01   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   8.2   0.1   0.2                 0.2     0.2    0.2        -.
zaofmental RAtum" per horinstal
itauty-bay of &aboa                                        0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2         -       -    0.2-
IRR - 194.38. WPV - 179.63
X& Relocatee from Mioen to YuanYang
Wed Dec 22 08:14:08 1993
1-1 Household Income for Relocatee in YuanYang farm model



124
8
Cbiba                                                      Table i4
aa"tU*Uft
for 1IQ4&t0M ID lfilaChi faca siodal
Iswwcm             (AGENUMM
(to Ktanw uwdtodl /a
wLtbaut
!Lth EUG 4oct                                      Future  Future ftccentage
a to   14           Pfesont without  with
29    30       1     2      3                              _L         L?LL9        1       30       30
Vzoduatiza
food ccqw                                 17.1  17a    17.1  II.*  11.0  11.0  11.0  L1.0  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0    17-L    17.1   11.0                    -0.4
Cash Ctqw                                  S-9    S-9    5-9  10-S  10-1  11-3    6-3   0.3   8.3   6.3    8.3    8.3          5.9      S.0    0.3           0.4
Fruit                                                                               7.8  10.9  MS  15.7  15.7  15.7                       .   15.7             -
N"t aw  *W                                        S.7   5.7   6.0   6.0   6.0    6.0   6.0   6.0   6.4    6.0    6.0           S.7      5.7    6.0           0.1
tub-total U" ftoduatUm                     -re-6 -fe-N -Te-6 al-I -2T-'T -5-7 -ST--1 -3T.-o- 7TS-0 -40-9 -CO-9 -4r.-9 2-0 6 2-6.6 4 a. 9                      0.4
eV vzoaWts
Iladdor WA foraqe                          3.1    3.2   2.1   2.1    2.1    2.0   1.9   1.9    1.9   1.9    1.9   1.9          3.1      3.1    1.9          -0.4
Moat arA eqqs                               1.6   116   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.4    1.6   1.6             1.6      1.6    1.6             -
MAnure--Anima                              0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4 _2A.    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4               0.4      0.4   -L. L
sub-tat" anwatsou                          -1-1 -r-I 5 I4 14-1 4.0 3-9 -a 9 -3-5 -T-9 -3 9 -1-9 -S.1 -9. 1  3.9   -0. 2
are" vblm of produffeJAW                   -f3-? 33.7 33.7 M-7 -11-7 777 -3-7-6 39.9 -r2.-? -r4.-S -U-S -R-9   3 3   -3-3 -f  44.                              -0.3
00-11MUS V"
food crop                                  2.1   2.7   2.7   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3               2.7      2.7    2.3          -0.2
raddec arA foreqo                          0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1               0.1      0.1    0.1           0.0
Manure-Anima                               0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   O.J   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4               0.4      0.4    0.4             -
Sub-Tatal ft-YAM On                           37  3.2                          z a           2 a =1 -T.7 -T.7 -.r-a -3 I -77 -2 a
on-ram owswetus
Food crops                                 9.0   9.0   . j 9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0                 9.0      9.0    9.0             -
Cash Crop                                  0.6   0.6   0.6  .0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6               0.6      0.6    0.6             -
Fruit                                      0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6               0.6      0.6    0.6             -
Moat. aw  Om                                      a 9   0.9   0.0   *.9   0.g   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9              0.9      0.9    0.9             -
Sub-Total on-ram Consumption                 11.1 II.; =   =1. I7M. I 7I. I                                               I                    =1-
19-           0.9 -3r9-  30.9    IM          19.4   30.9           0.6
get Vabm Ot Psoduatim                      =9.4 Irl =9.4 17.7 17.7 18.4 =3. 1   0  S.
lurches" conomptim
F4xd ccw                                      -     -      - 1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4                 -        -    1.4             -
Fruit                                      0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6          -      -      -      -     -      -      0.6
swil-tatal pagebas" comemptim                 0 6 0 6 -0-1 --I-* -T7 -2.O -1 4 -1 4 - -17 -1 4 -1 4 -r-4 -0 6 -0 6  1.4    1.4
Other zmtiom
Other laame                                S.0   S.0   S.0 _.I&l  j_Z.3  12.3  12.3  12.3  12.3  12.3  12.3  12.3              5.0      5.0   12.3           I.S
ZMFLM                                           -M  -ZT.-8 28.0 -28.0 -2-87 =4. 0 36.9 39.7 41.0 41.8 41.0 2-3.8 2-3.8  41.8                                 0.8
graduation ewe
Jr., - -
seouinp                                                       2.9
OP-tiv
Seeds                                    1.5   I.S   I.S   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1               I.S      I.S    1.1          -0.2
raw  crop                                a.;      -      - 0:1   0:1   1:1   0:1   1:1   0:12  1:4   0:4   0:4                 -        -    0:4             -
seedluw                                         0. 3   0.3 02   0 2   02   0 2 0 2   0                a2   0 2   0 2         0. 3     0. 3    0 2         -0.2
Fertilizers and pesticide                6.3   6.3   6.3   6.9   7.3   9.6  11.0  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4               6.3      6.3   U.4            1.0
other iqnts                              3.9   3.9   3.9   2.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3               3.9      3.9    3.3          -0.2
Manure-AnIza                             1.1   1.1   1.1   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6               1.1      1.1    0.6          -0.4
Young animals                            *.S   *.S   O.S   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6               O.S      0.5    0.6           0.0
13-3 -Tn =6.2 17 2 0=7 -19-7 =0 7 0=7 =8.7 -13.S -   1-0.7
$ub-total *#=at"# abou                    IT.-S =31 =3 s                                                                               I3.S                  0.4
Sub-tot"  pseduatim  ccwt                   13.5  I3.S =3. 5  16.5  13.9  16.2 =7. 2  10.7 =8.7  18.7  10.7 -1-87  --1-3.T -13. S   -117                       0.4
9
Aqricature T"                              0.4   0.4   0.4                                        0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3        0.1    'O. t    0.3          -0.I
Spectal Product Tax                        2.7           2.1                                        -      -   3.5    - S        7      2.7    3.S           0.3
sub-Totol Tax"                                3.1                            -7-                 -T-3 -0 3 -3 7    =it, -3. r --- 37 T                          0.2
OUZFLOM                                    ry          4-:11        -IT.-9- =6 1  17 2 =9 7  19.9  10.9  22.42 .4    16.7    16.7 .2-2.4                     0.3
Cash 12ow oneove lumacuo                  7-1            -7-1 11.6 -14.1 12.51 -IT-8- -N-2 _j0_7 -2Y-9 19 4                           -7.1 1-9.4                1.7
ram  fs"xy sonents ancom                                                     -M            -TS-.3  31.9  34.0
=9.2           19.2  if. 62T.2                                                       18.2    18.2   30.S            0.7
sea"" of rinews
Tzansfez teca Previous ftliod             13.S  13.5  13.5  IG.S  13.9  16.2  17.2  18.7  18.7  18.7  18.7  18.7    MS    13.6   16.7                        0.4
13.S    J.5  IG.S  13.9  1 .1    .1  19.7  IS.?  19.7  10.7  18.7  19.7    13.5    II.S   18.7                    0.4
Less Trwwfet to Moat ftriod                                          lp   JL
*d-Total Scozoes of fia*M&                              '1-49 -2.5 --2.2  -1.0
Cub nov After ffumbefto                    -f-I -7.1 4-2 =4.1 -11-1 =1.5 15.3 =8.2 -2-0.7 -U-S 0.4 M9-4 -7 1-7 1 1-9 4    1.7
35                    -      -     -      -      -     Z          19-7              13w$   18.7           0.4
ft,ansew to next Vogl"                                                     -r- -- - 79-3 -rl-O 3-                                       31.7 :39P             0.6
ram  famay DwAtits after namaiaw                                        22 9   2 6  2i 4                   4.0  30.5  49.2                          .2
entome pm family-OW 49 Labor                  0-1           O., -1-11   0 1   0 1   0 1   0 1   0 1 0 1 0 1   0 2                          0*2
zaccomental aotmmo VW Mmuromestal.
rawly-Day at Lebow                            -                -0.1   0.0   M       012   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.3   0.4                            0.4
IRR - 216.41, NPV - '79.02
Xe MacChi Area
Wed Doc 22 07:4S.17 1993
1-1 Housebold Income for Relocat" Ln KL&nChL farn diodel



- 125 -
Chin                                                 Table 1S
Uiootrngdi  "-Sttlfent Pfo0ect--Shan1imn
Household Itcom  for Ruloct.. in ShnXian fan  *ode
tIn Shanxian Nundred) /a
Etaout           ~~~Seoteir--tobor
VI-thoUt
Pro.Ct         With Protect               Future  Future Percentage
1 to              2 to  7 to        Present Without With   chance
29    30     1     6    29    30      1      30      30       *
Food crops                             9.2   9.2   9.2  10. 6  10.6  10.6    9.2      9.2  10.6         0.2
Cash Crops                             4.9   4.9   4.9   6.2   6.2   6.2      4.9     4.9   6.2         0.3
meat end eggs                          5.7   5.7   S     S7   5,7   s.7       S.7     5.7    5.7          -
sub-total b2a  k.otio4                  197   9     19 7 7  22  522   Mi    1         1- 972 5   O         .L
BY PeoAsota
Fodder and forage                      1.0   1.0   1.8   2.1   2.1   2.1    1.e       1.8   2.1         0.2
Net and eggs                           1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6      1.6     1.6   1.6           -
Manure--Ama                            04   04   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4        0.4     0.4    0.4
Sub-tt"a 10ruate                         3.8      3 .    4.1  4.1 4*i           3.      1.8  *  .         0.1
Goo" va3m  oS Ioatiai                   23.5  23.5  23.5  26.5  26-.5  26.5  23.5   23.5  26.5            0.1
ft-SIsa Use
Food croPs                             2.0   2.0   2.0   2.3   2.3   2.3      2.0     2.0   2.3         0.2
fodder and gocoge                      0.1  0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1          0.1    0.1   0.1
4anure--Ania                           0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4 O          ,jj    0.4
8ub-Tot  Oftam-  Ue                      2.5   2 5   2 5   2.8   2.5   2                 5 l i            0.1
(gm-ftm comeomptiem
Food crops                             6.1   8.1   6.1  8.1  8.1  0.1   864           6.1   8.1
Cash Crops                             1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0      1.0     1.0   1.0 
Fruit                                  1.0  -1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0     1.0      1;0   1.0
Meat and eggs                          1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2      1.2  1.2    12         _
Sub-total OGm-la  CommW_im              11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  113    11          3  11.3 3
nat Vua of Imattiol                      9.7   9.7   9.7  12.4  12.4  12.4      9.7     9.7  12.4         0.3
Suinsaaod  -oswtA
Food crops                             1.4   1.4   1.4   0.3   0.3   0.3      1.4    1.4   0.3        -0.8
Fruit                                  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0      1.0     1.0   1.0           -
>Sub-ttal Iimebaaad Cam~tioa             2.4   2.4   2.4   1.3 -1.3   1.3    2.4        2.4       1.3   -0.5
Other bglaws
Other Incme                            6.7   6.7   6.7  11.2  11.2  11.2      6.7     6.7   11.2        0.7
fhIf.                                 14.0  14.0  14.0  22.4  22.4  22.4    14.0  14.0  22.4    O0.
9zotAhoLs east
Seeds                                  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0      1.0     1.0   1.0       -0.0
food cros                              0.7   0.7   0.7   0.4   0.4   0.4      0.7     0.7   0.4        -0.4
Seedlings                              0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1      0.1     0.1    0.1        0.0
fertiUzers enA pestlcide               3.7   3.7   3.7   4.6   4.6   4.6      3.7     3.7   4.6         0.2
Other inputs                           2.4   2.4   2.4   2.S   2.9   2.9      2.4     2.4    2.9        0.2
Nainure--An3a                          0.4   0.4   0.4   0.6   0.6   0.6      0.4    0.4    0.6         0.3
Young animas                           0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5      0.5    0.5   0.5            -
Sub-Total ohaisatum Ceet                 8.9    8 .9 9   10.1  10.1  10.1       8.9     8.9  10.1         0.-1
Agriculture  Sam                       0.2   0.2   0.2     -   0.3   0.3      0.2     0.2   0.3         0.1
Special Product Ta                     0.6   0.6   0.6     -     -     -      0.6    0.6       -          -
sub-Totl gS                              0.9   0.9   0.9     -   0.3   0.3      0.9     0.9   0.3        -0,7
OURM9.7   9.7  9.7 10. 10.3 -10.3  _9  97 _9.7 1-0.3   0 O.1
Cash Elow  ofme n       nmalag           4.3   4.3   4.3   2.3  12.1  12.1      4.3    4.3   12.1         1.8
rl      ly Oan_fta sez. lnanoug  15.6  15.6  15.6 2T'3  23.6  23  23.3    15.6   15.6  23.3               0.5
Soozoe, of Einse
Transfer fron Previous Period          6.9   8.9   8.9  10.1  10.1  10.1      8.9    8.9  10.1          0.1
Lass Transfer to Next Period           6.9   8.9  10.1  10.1  10.1  10.1      8.9    8.9   10.1         0.1
Sulb-total saucee" at Unaaae             -       --12            -     -       -                 -          -
Cash rlm After tianoig                   4.3         3.1  12.3  12.1 *12.       4.3     4.3  12.1         1.6
Paa1sAml value of
Trsfeztof   f tert lied                  -   8.9     -     -      -  10.1       -    8.9   10.1         0.1
rm   miily taefiteMAftartiasaa1   t        6  24.5 14.4  23.6 23.3 33.4    15.6    24.5   33.4            0.
Rtatm pa  vastly-Day  f abr              0.1        0.                             2 0102 0 .2 0.2   0.2 0.   0.3
?noe.antal Satuss Par ?momtal
naly-          of Labor                  -     -     -   0.7   0.7   0.8        -       -    0.8          -
1RR - 670.9t, NPV * 55.30
\a ShanXan Area
Wed Dec 22 07:37:38 1993
1-1 Mousehold Income for Relocatee in ShanXian fem model



- 126-
Chilna                                         Tbe1
Xitolanqdt Resettlement ft0ojeCt-Tu48nQUS  CountryraLe1
Ro1ocate4 Mar Move in Yianqu fain model
(In Yuan Hundred) /a
Septemtot--Octobor
without
prolect                                                                  fut Poec  ~ture  Future percentage
I to                                                   8 to        present )Uithaiit WithI   Chance
_L _30       I     2      3     4     5    6      7   29    3         1 
FooO crops                            16.1  18.1  18.1   7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6   7.6   1.6   7.6    18.1    16.1    7.6          -0.6
Cash CcOps                            14.7  14.7  14.7   9.6   9.6   9.6   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7. 3    14.7    14.7    7.3         -0.5
Fruit                                          -     -     -      -     -   5.0   7.5  10.0  16.1  16.1       -        -   16.1 
meat and efla                             6.4   6.4 ..i65. ...iL.j.         6.5   6.S   6.5   6. 6.5  S      6.4     6.4  6.5           0.0
8*b-tota.l NLaS  1teou~toU            -M   39.3  39.3  23.8If 23.  T3.6 -2r.4- 26.9 '3W1  !YrT 171T __13    39.3  3-7.6                 -0.0
By lxoamot
Fodder and forage                      4.6   4.6   4.6   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1       4.6     4.6    2.1        -0.5
Meat antd eggs                         3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   2.t   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1       3.1     3.1    2.1        -0.3
Manure--Animal  ~0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5                   0.5     0.5    0.5        -0.0
lim-total aypsoftota                    __  -T                        __                 ___ 49:;  --4T- -               .      .       _ _
maoaa V&3.t Of DZO&MctL4ft             _V5   T3_ i4Tn  7 & _26.6  28.8  31.2  33.8 36.3  42.4  42.4    41.5  .iY'J7   42.4               -0.1
an-Pawas Ca.
Food crops                             2.4   2.4   2.4   1.3   1.3   L1..   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3     2.4      2.4    1.3        -C.S
Fodder and forage                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1      0.2      0.2      d.1      -0.3
Manure--Animal                         0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5 0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5         0.5     0.5    0.5        -0.0
Sub-Total an-ftm Wee                     3.1  =1371t  T       O .9  9 -1T   -1 1.  1.9   1.9  T1  T           3 1    3.1T1-    ~ -0.4
On-ram Consmption,
food crops                             7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5      7.5      7.5    7.5
Cash Crops                             0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6       0.6     0.6    0.6
Meat sad eggs                          0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.64  0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6       0.6     0.6    0.6 ____
sub-Total, fn-lam Comanstom             6.-7        9 7T 0T    8.7  18T  177  T7  -fT  8i7~  6.7              8. 7    6.7 _8TT_____
Ret Value Ot pzodmotio                 35.7  35.7  35.7  16.2 -18.2  Tl  20.6  23.1  25.6  1          1.8   -35.7    35.7  3-1 i         -C."
purchased Conumtion
Food crops                               -           - 1.       1.    1.    11 1. 1.          1.    11         -       -    1.
otner InCOme                           5.2   5.2   5.2  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6       5.2     5.2   22.6         3.3
zny4mU                               -40.9 _49 0T  39.7  39.7 -39.7  42.1. 744.  4r7.1 5F3.25 2In~              40.9     -3T       ~   0.3
Production cost
Seedl.,nqs                             -     -     -   2.4      -     -     -     -     -     -      -       -           -        -
Seeds                                1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2       1.6     1.6    1.2        -0.2
F'ood Crolps                         0.4   0.4   0.4   1.I   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1       0.4     0.4    1.1         1.'
Seedli.ngs                           0.2   0.2   0.2     -      -     -     -     -     -     -     -      0.2     0.2       - 
Fertilizess and pesticide           10.1  10.1  10.1   6.5   7.4   6.5   9.1  9.9  10.6  10.6  10.6    10.1    10.1   10.6            0.1
Kaanure--Animal                      i_   1.2   1.2   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3        1.2     1.2    0.3        -0.8
Other inputs                         5.4   5.4   5.4   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5       5.4     5.4    2.5        -0.5
Young animals                        0.6   0.8   0.8   0.6   0.8    . 0.8   0.8   0.8    0.8    0.8    0.6     0.6     0.6            0.0
6*b-total Op"artw cost*        ~      It   Y17  19.7  12. 3 5  =Tii -IT3 ...1.   =16. -Nii          =6    igj       19.7  16.5         -0.2
Sub-total Production Cot                9" 1iY   -  117T  1TrJ  13.6  14.9   5  -15.6  11T  irr_ 16.5  1-9.7  1_9.7   16.5  -__07.2
Agricuzlture Tax                       0.5   0.5   0.5      -           -     -     - 0.2   0.2   0.2        0.5     0.5    0.2        -0.5
Special Product Tax                      -     -     -   38 3.6   38   3.8   3.0 3.   3.6   3.81                       -    3.6 _____
-n--- --    3   _3                       3_                                              _
Sb-Total baa.". .                                    0 .T    .         384ri4.  4.0                           0.5     9.5    4.0         7.~9
OuTrzalm                        .~~ 20.1  20.1  191'T        871.   97  2052.    05               2.1      20.1   20.5         0.0
CA%h njow aetere WSnanoj.mo            _N.7 T      - 20.6       M- 2T 221    W_flTr           -R 32.   j     _7 20.   20.8   32.7         0.6
ftm iI~WPL  SeneSta $gfowe l4maaoLm  129.3 -29.55  29.S  29.330.  29.7  31.  336  35-.3  41441.4    29.5    29.5    1.                    0.4
Transfer from Previous Period         19.7  19.7  19.7  15.3  13.6  14.9  15.0  15.6  16.5  16.5  16.5    19.7    19.7   16.5          -.
Less Tranlsfer to '4ext Period        19.7  19.7  15.3  13.6  14.9  15.0  15.8  16.5  16.5  16.   16.5    19.7    19.7   16.           -0.2
Sub-fotal seurces of u*Aaa.e                         4 ...     T   -1I  -7l  -:0.8  -0.6                                            ____
Cash, flow After ttaaalnqi              =0   20.8  25S.2Z r22.1j  20.9  20.6  22.4  24.3  26.6 -32.7  3-2.7    2 0.8  2-0.6    2.         0.6
RsiduaL value of
fuamajeg to Next Peaed-                                           -     -  - 19- --                            - 519.7   16.5          -0.2
Fain-F ly g&n.&Lt$ MLteF85n            -2-9.5  49.2- 33-.9 30. 9-g?           =     I= 35.T3  41.457.    29.5   49.2z  57.9               0.2
Retuzue Per Flya-07o et.abe               .  *oTTT    .            .     .     .   0.2  =0-.T~                  .        .2.               .
IRR - None, NPV - 51.93
Xg Re:*Catee Area
Nea Dec 2-2 08:23: 02 1993
1-1 Relocatee Year Move in Yuanqu farm model



-127-
Table 17
China
Xiaolanqd. Aeaettlaeent cO3ect--Pinglu And Xiaxian Cousntzy
R0locet4e--tEeez Hova in Pinglis And Xidaie farm amoel
(In Yuan Hundced) /a
Seotemnber--October
Witthout
Project                          With Project                                  fusture  fturise Percentege
I to                                                  6 to   10         PreSent Without With    Change
29    30     1     2     3    4    5       6     7    9   to 29 30 L              30      30       S
Ka&.n Production
Foo  crops                           114.e 14.6  19.0 19.0  19.0 19.0 I.  19.0  19.0  19.0  19.0  19.0    14.8    11.8   19.0               0.3
Cash Crops                             6.6   6.6   6.6  10.5  10.5  10.5   8.7  8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   6.7-    6.6       6.6    8.7        0.3
;,:.--t                      1.~~~~8 1.8.  I.e    .   2.0  2.0   6.4  10.2  1.4.0  14.7  14.7  1i.7      .       .9 1.              .
Near antl eqgs                         64 6.4   6.4   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3         6.4     6.4    7.3        0.1
sub-total main Prodisotaon              29.7  29.7  29.7  38636.68 36.8 4r3.3 -45.1  47.70 -4-9.     9.  497        97     29.7   49.7.
.By Products
FOatcer And forage                     3.6.  3.6   3.   5.1   5.1   1.1   4.6   4.8   4.6   4.6   4.8   4.8       3.6     3.6    4.8        0.4
Maetan d eggs                          I.5   3.5   3.S   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6      3.5     3.5    3.6        0.0
7fanuze..Animal                        0.5    .      S 0.5 0.5   0.5  -0.5       O..  S 0.5  0.5   O.j   0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5       -0.0
Sub-total. Syprodutot                    7.6   7.6   7.6   9.2   9.2  9.2   9.0  9.0  9.0   -.  j    - j  -9.0      7.     i7.6    9.0        0.2
Otoag Value Of gco %wtLom               3 .  37 3 -37.3  46.0  48.0  46.0o 512.73 5r4.2  56.0a  58.7  58. 7 !1a7~      OWTI.0.
Ont-ram Vae
Food crops                             2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.6  2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8      2.8      2.6    2.8       -0.0
-ooder and forage                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2      0.2     0.2    0..2       0.0
!(anur*--Animal                        0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   6.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5       -0.
Sub-Tota. 0,1-ram  lee                   3.5  3. s-s 3.s  3-s 3.5  3.s 3.s 3.5 -T!  3s  3.5    -3.5                         3.5    3.5
On-farm Cansuoptaum
FO-od crops                            I.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5  7.5   7.5   7.5   7.S   7.5   7.5   7.5      7.5      7.5    7.5-
Cash.~ Zrops                           0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6        0.6     0.6    0.6-
Meat and eggs                          0.6   6.6   0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6       0.6     0.6    0.6-
Sisb-Total On-Fare Caaa~inption8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8..7 8.7  7    . .7           8.7   6.7    -       -7
Not Valuse Of lzoduoaim                 21.1  25.1  25.1  35.8  35.6A  35.8 4i0.1  42.0  438 TT.  46.5  46.5  2-5.1    25.1   46.5            0.9
Other inflows
Other ncm                              4.6   4.8   4.8  10.   10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4      4.8     4.8   10.4         1.1
nM.OLW                                30.0  30.0  30.0 -46.2  46.2  46.2  50.5  52.3  54.2  56.9 5T6.9  564  30.0  3-0.0  15-9              0.9
Product&*n Coat
Seedlings                              -     -     -   1.9     -    -      -     -    -      -     -      -       -       -      -           -
Opertin
Seeds                                1.8   1.8   1.6   2.1   2.1   2.1   1.8   1.8  1.6   1.8   1.8   1.8       1.8     1.8    1.8       -0.0
Seedlings                            0.3   0.3   C.3   0.3   0.3  0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.3     0.3    0.3        0.1
Fertilizers end pesticide            7.2  7.2   7.2  10.0  10.6  11.5  12.0  12.7  13.2  13.2  13.2  13.2       7.2     7.2   13.2        0.8
74anur4--Animal                      0.8   0.8   0.6   1.3   1.3  1.3   1.2  1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   t.2        0.8     0.8    1.2        0.5
Other ini,:ts                        3.7   3.7   3.7   S.2   5.2   5.2   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1      3.7     3.7    5.1         0.4
Yowsnq anii.als                      0.8   0.8   0.6   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9      0.6     0.8    0.9         0.2
Sub-total Opeating C.,t               14.5 14.5 17- __  270.4 2F1.3 21-  F22.1  22.6  22.6  T22.6 -22.6  1..J5   22-                          0.6
Sub-Total. Producati.on Coet            14.5  14.S  14.5  21.6  20.4  21.3  21.4  22.1  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6    14.5    14.5   22.6          0.6
Takxes
Aqr4CUlture Tax                        0.4   0.4   0.4     -     -     -     -    -   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.4     0.4    0.3        -0.1
Speciall Product Tax                                                                               3 -    , -3 -8 -    3.  3.8                -
Sub-Total. Taxes                      0.. .Aj4   0.4         -     -     -            -  0.1  0.3  4.2  4.2         0.     0..j4  j-49.
OuTFLOWS                              14.9  14.  14 .9  21.6  20.4  21.3  21.42.1292.9 68268 Jj...A.   28                                   08
Cash 11ev Before VimaneSa               15.0150 .0  0  4.5 25.8  24.9  29.1  30.  3 t1.  34.0  30.1  30.1   is   5.0          o       17  ~ 1.0
Ferm Fam.u.ly Benefits Before VtwAnam g  23-.8  23.8 -23.8  33.3 3r4.5 -33.6  37.  39.0 -40.0 4U2.7 -38.9 3f8.9    23.6  2-3.8  38.9          0.6
Sources of Finance
Transfer from Previous Period         14.5  14.5  1L.S  21.6  20.4  21.3  21.4  22.1  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6    14.5    14.5   22.6         0.6
Less Transfer to Next Period          14.5  14.5  21.6  20.4  21.3  21.4  2.2j1. 22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6    14.5    14.5  22.6         0.6
Sub-Total Sources of finawne                    _-  -7.1   1.2  -0.9 -0.1 -0.6  -0.5    -        -      -     -       -       -      -          -
Cash fl.ow Aftex fi.nancing15.   15.0   7.9  25.8  24.-9 -2-4.728.5  29.8  313  3r4.0  30.1  30.1    15. 0    15.0  3-0.1                      1.0
plesildual value of
Transfer to Next Veriod                  -   45      -     -     -     - --  -  -                        22.6       -    14.5   22.6        0.
farm Vammly Benefita After                   14aeng 2.    3831.73.  TS7i  U! 1V2 __W71 --5  4T2.7  38.-9  61.4    23.8     3.3  671.4         0.
P44tUCnS per Famly-Day Of  aor           0.1   0.2   0.1  0.1  -0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1   0.1 0.1  0.1  0.2            0.1   -0.2   -0.20.
Iftcremental Reatucas peaIx emna
Famaly-Day of Lbabo                      -    -      -   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3        -       -    0.3 
!RR - 149.71, NPV - 93.76
'aReiccetee  Area
CueC ec 21 071.15:30 1.993
2-1 Relocatee--Near NOve in Pinglu And Xhartin fean model



-128-                                                   ANNEX 8
Table 18
China
Xi.aolCngdi Resettleaent Pro3ect--tIou0
The Averge Houswhol4d 1coe fto  Host in HOuh- FatS 1odal
fnAC         BUD=   AG U )
(In Yuan Hundte41 /a
September--Octobeo
w4thout                       Snb
ProEect              With Pcoiect                      future  future P rcentage
I to                                 5 to        9resent Without With    ChMnM
29    30     1     2     3      4    29    30      1      30      i30       t
Hjn Prode taca
Food ::cps                            13.3  13.3  13.3  10.6  14.1  16.4  10.4  18.4    13.3   13.3  18.4             O.4
tess Z-::s                             8.6   8.d      8.8  10.'  14.1  1S.0  15.6  1S.6    8.8     8.8   15.6         0.8
Meat ana eggs                          7,4   I.4   7.4 :.4   7.4 7.4   7.4 7,4             7t4     7t4    7.4           -
Sub,total xa= produotaen                29.4  23.;  29.4  28.'  35.9  38.6 41.4  41.4    29.4    29.4   41.4            0.4
By 9roduhts
F^cde: rand forage                     3.5   3.1   3.5   3.1   4.3   4.9   S.S   S.5       3.S     3.S    S.1         0.6
Y.'e  and eggs                         2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6       2.6     2.6    2.6           -
Maenu:--Ar.:ra.:                        0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   5.6   0.6   0.6   0.6      0.6     0.6    0.6
sub-tota. Byproducts                     6.7   6.7   6.7   6.3   7.5   8.0  8t 6      1 3    6.7     6.7    8.6         0.3
Gross Va.ue Of Produoion                 36.1  36.1  36.;  35.0  43.4  46.8  50.0  s0.0    36.1    36.1 ;i a          - 0.4
on-ram Use
F=oo  :rop3                            :.3   1.3   1.3   1.7   2.4   2.7   3.0   3.0       1.3     1.3    3.0         1.2
Foccer tA,  forage                     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.2     0.2    0.2
.e-.:w--A-e-a:                          0.6   0.6   0.6   0,6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6      0.6     0.6    0.6           -
Sub-Total On-rf.  Use                    2.1   2      2.1   2.5   3.2   3.5   3.8   3.8      2.1     2.1    3.8         0.8
On-rara Canstnptaon
:oOo :Zops                             6.1   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7       6.7     6.?    6.7           -
tat:: CrOps                            1.D   -.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.5       1.0   1.0   1.0     1.0    1.0
HeAteand. eggs                          .       3    .3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3      1.3     1.3    1.3
Sub-Total Ont-tam Consumpuaon           9.1    9.5   97.  T.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0    91.0   -9.0    9.0               -
Net Value Of Produat4on                 24.9  24.9         23.4  3:.2  34.3  37.3  37.3    24.9  24.9          3        7.3 0.5
Purchased Consuptior
CasC Crops                             1.0   1.0   1.0      -     -      -     -     -     1.0     1.0      -           -
Other Inflows
Otrne: Income                          8.8   8.8   8.8  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3       8.8     8.8   20.3         1.3
n s                                   32.6  32.6  3.6  43.8  51.5  54.6  57.6  17.6    32.6  32.6    7.6              0.8
Productuoa Cost
Seeos                                  1.9   1.9   1.9   1.5   1.1   1.5   1.5   1.5       1.9     1.9    1.1        -0.2
Food crops                             1.6   1.6   1.6   1.2   0.6   0.3       -     -     1.6     1.6      -           -
Seedlings                              0.2   0.2   0.2      -     -      -     -     -     0.2     0.2       -
Fert.l:sZers a.d pesticide             7.3   7.3   7.3  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0       7.3     7.3   11.0         0.5
Mr.'uze--Ani*_1                         0.7   0.7   0.7   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3      0.7     0.7    1.3         1.0
Other irp:ts                           3.3   3.3   3.3   6.2   6.2   6.2   6.2   6.2       3.3     3.3    6.2         0.9
Your.g animals                         0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9       0.9     0.9    0.9           -
Sub-Total Prodtton Cost                  15.8  115.8  15.8  22.1  21.5  21.2  20.9  20.9    15.8    15.8   20.9         0.3
Ise
Agriculture Tax                        0.5   0.5   0.5   0.7   0             0.7   0.7        0.   0.5    0.7         0.4
OUfL:OWS                               16.3  16.3  16.3  22.8  22.2  21.9  21.6  21.6    16.3    16.3  21.6           0 3
Cash Plow aefore foang                   16.3  16.3  16.3  20.9  29.3  32.7  36.0  36.Z   -16.      t6.3   36.0         1.2
fara la y beef2ts Before  .nanc2.ng  25.3  25.3  25.3  30.0  38.4 41.8  45.0 I450    25.3    25.3   45.0                0.8
Sources of ?tnance
Transfer from Previous Period         15.8  15.8  15.8  22.1  21.5  21.2  20.9  20.9    15.8    15.8   20.9           0.3
Loss  reansfr to Next Period          15.8  1'.8  22.1  21.5  21.2  20.9  20.9  20.9    15.8   15.8  20.9             0.3
Sub-Total Souzces of f a-                         -  -6.3   0.7   .3  0                                -       -          -
Cash flow After fanctq                   16.3  16.3  10.0  21.6  29.6  33.0  36.0  36.0    16.3    16.3   36.0          1.2
Reesdual value of
Transfer to West Veriod                   -  15.8     -     -     -    -       -  20.9       -    15.   20.9          0.3
Flm  a-ly Benfits After fznawAng   25.3  41.2  19.1  30.6  38.6   2.1  45.0  69    25.3    41.2   65.9                  0.6
Return  per Family-Day of Laboor                0.1   0.2  0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3       0.1     0.2    0.3         0.5
Incremental  ratuts per Ta*zumtal
fam:ly-tay of Labor                       -     -     -   0.3   0.7   0.9   1.1   1.3                -    1.3           -
IRR a   47.24. NPV - 117.50
ke Houre Irrigation Area
tue Dec 2: 37:55:42 1993
7-1 The Avorage Household Income for Hoat in Rouh. Fare Model



-129-
Chna                                                Table 19
X40oleddi Rettlement Proj.ct-liyu"n County
Host ine.a he1e   6180 sn Jiyuene ra  Noda
(Zn Yuan Hundred) /e
seotesbeg--October
Without
Ptoaeet       ""With ProleCt             Future  future Percentae
1 to             2 tO  7 tO        Prezsnt Without With   Clww*
29   10     I    6   29   30    1           30     30       5
Nun Production
Foco crops                           11.9  1;.9  11.9  17.7  17.7  17.7   11.9   11.9  17.7         4.5
Cash Crops                           9.2  9.2  9.2  11.0  11.0  11.0    9.2    9.2  11.0            0.2
meet an-. eggs                        6.9  6.9  6.9  6.9  6.9  6.9       6.9      6.9   6.9           -
Sub-total dwsa 2r7.due        9        27.9  27.9  27.91  5.6  3S.6  35.6  27.9  27.9  35.6           0.3
Sy Products
Fodder and forage                    2.1  2.1  2.1  3.2  3.2  3.2    2.1    2.1   3.2               0.S
Heat and eggs                         3.4  3.4  3.4  3.4  3.4  3.4    3.4    3.4   3.4
Other an=al products                  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2         1.2    1.2      2          -
Sub-total 8yprodunts                    6.   6.8  6.6 e    5   7.8  7.8    6.8    6.8   7.8           0.2
erose Value Of Wro*sonLo.              34.7  34.7  34.7  *3.S   S3.   SS      .7    3:   =3,          0.3
n-tam U e
Food crops                            3.8  3.8  3.8  3.9  3.8  3.8    3.8    3.8   3.8                -
fodder and forage                    0.2  0.2  0.Z  0.2  0.2  0.2    0.2    0.2   0.2
Other animal products                 0.3  0.3  0.3 0,.3  0.3  0.3    0,3         03   00.3
Sub-Total On-am                         4.44   4.4    4.4    4.4   4.4                                  _
On-7am ConstsptLn
Food crops                           6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3  6.3    6.3    6.3   6.3                 -
Cash Crops                            1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4    1.4    1.4   1.4
peat and eggs                         1.0  1.0  1.-0  1.0  1.0  1.0   j.0          1.0   1.0
Sub-Total On-tam Comminpn             =.7  8.7  8.7  8.7  Y.7  8.7    8.7    8.7   8.7
Not Value of roduOtien                 21.62 21.6  21.6  30.4  30.4  Z0.4  1=. 6   2.6.G  3a.4        0.4
Other TAf lov
Other lacne                          14.3  14.3  14.3 14.4  14.4 14.4   14.3   14.3  14.4           0.0
DwLoWs                              35.9  35.; 35.9 e4.  1.6 j1T         35.9    35.9   4.8         01I
Produstion Cost
Seeds                                 1.1  1.1  1.1  0.9  0.9  0.9    1.1    1.1   0.9             -0.1
Fertilizers and pesticide            4.8  4.8  4.8  6.5  6.5  6.5    4.8    4.8   6.5               0.3
Other anial productz                  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.4  0.4  0.4    0.2    0.2   0.4              0.8
Other inputs                          3.5  3.5  3.5  3.4  3.4  3.4    3.S    3.5   3.4             -0.0
Young animals                         0.9  0.9   0    0-9  0.9   0                0.9   0.9 0
Sub-Totaj. Proltion Coat               10.8  10.6  10.6  12.1               10.6   10. I 1 .1
Taes
Other inputs                          0.3  0-3  0.3    -  0.3  0.          0.-R _d I               -0.0
OuTfLOs                              10.8  10.8            In __          10.8   10.8  12.3         0.S t
Cash PI". Saefe  gsimming              2.i  25.1  25.1  32.8 32.S _325 =0           25.   3Z
Yam Family Benefits  foe ftnmeinf j3.77 7 33.7  33.7 341.4  41.2  41.2   33.7   33.7  41.2            0.2
scaures Of Finance
Transfer from Previous Period        10.6  10.6  10.6  12.1  12.1  t2.1   10.6   10.6  12.1         0.1
ess Tranfer to Next Period          10.6  10.6  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1   10.6   10.6  12.1          0.1
Sub-total Sooroes of ta                   -    - -1 .5     --          -       -             -          -
Cash flow After rinanaimg               r ISI7ttT  M-8  325  32.5  25.1  25.1  32.5                   0.3
Rsadumi value of
Transfer to Waxt atd                    - 10.6     -    -    - 12.1          -   10.6  12.          0.1
lam lamaly   nfits After               33.7 *4.3              41.4  1.2  53.3   33.7   44.3  53.3 
VAturnA per lsly--Day of  r             0.2  0.3   0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3        0.      0.3  80..2
IRA - 504.21, NPV - 52.74
\a Li1i.Yiaqiao.Wulongkou In Jiyuen
Wed "-c 22 07:49:21 1993
2-1 Hot incoM_ bel' 80180 in Jsyuan lam Nodal



- 130 -
Aga8
china                                                 Table 20
Xiaolanagt Resettlement ProjIct--Jiyuan County
Host betwen N1180--265 Crop model
Isn Yuan Hundred) /a
Seotember--October
Without
Project        With Project                Future  Future Percentae
I to              2 to  7 to         Present Without With   Chanq*
29    30     1     6    29    30    1       '3      30         t
an Ptoduction
Food :rops                            15.0  15.0  15.0  15.9  15.9  15.9    15.0    15.0  15.9           0.1
:ash Crops                            12.3  12.3  12.3  12.2  12.2  12.2   12.3   12.3   12.2           -0.0
F. .::                                 9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4   9.4      9.4     9.4    9.4           -
Meat and eggs                          6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9 ...             9    6.94
Sub-total Main ProduotsOn               43.5  43.5  43.5  44.3  44.3  44.3  43.5  43.5   44.3              0.0
By Products
Fodder and forage                      2.8   2.8   2.8   3.1   3.1   3.1      2.8    2.8    3.1          0.1
Meat ono eggs                           1.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4      3.4     3.4    3.4          -
Other animal products                   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2    1.2       1.2    1.2          -
Sub-total Byproducts                     7.4   7.4   7.4  '.8   7.8   7.S        7.4     7.4    7.8        0.1
Oroas Value Of Production                50.9  50.9  50.9  52.1  52.1  52.1   50.9   50.9  52.1            0.0
On-Warn u7se
Food =rOps                             3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8    3.8       3.8    3.8           -
Fodder and forage                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2      0.2      0.2    0.2
Other antimal products                  0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3      0.3     0.3    0.3
Sub-Total On-ram vse                     4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4 *    4   4.4      4.4     4.4    4.4
On-Tam Consumption
Food Cr^ps                             6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3       ..3     6.3    6.3          -
Cash Crops                             1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4    ..4        1.4    1.4
Neat and eggs                           1.0  1.0   1.0   1.0   1. 0   1.0      1.0     i0    1.0
Sub-Total On-1am Consumptioa             8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7       8.7     8.7    8.7
Net Value Of Production                 -3i.   31.8  37.   39.0  39.0  39.0    37.8   37.S  39.0           0.0
Other alows
Oth.er lnczme                         14.3  14.3  14.3  14.4  14.4  14.4    14.3   14.3   14.4           0.0
FLOWS                                 52.1  52.:  52   53.5  53.5  53.5   52.1   52.2   53.5             0.0
Production Coat
Purchased inputs
Seeds                                1.3   1.3   1.3   1.1   1.1   1.1      1.3      1.3    1.1       -0.2
Seedlings                            0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2      0.2     0.2    0.2         0.1
Fertilizers end pesticide            6.7   6.7   6.7   6.6   6.6   6.6      6.7     6.7    6.6        -0.0
Other animal products                0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4      0.4      0.4    0.4        0.1
Other inputs                         4.2   4.2   4.2   3.3   3.3   3.3      4.2     4.2    3.3        -0.2
Young animals                        0.9   0.9   0.a   0.9   0.9   0.9      0.9      0.    0.9           -
Sub-Total Purchasd Inut               13.7  13.7  13.7  12.6  12.6  12.6   13.7    13.7   12.6          -0.1
Hired Labor
Farm Iabor                           1.6   1.6   1.6      -     -     -     1.6      1.6      -          -
Sub-Total Production Cost                      15.3 Ti        1 iJ 6I      -    15.3    15.3 12.6 12.-
Tame
Other inputs                           0.3          0.3     -   0.3   0.3       30*3          0.3       -0.0
OUTFLOWS                              1S.S  IS.S 15.5  12.6  12.8  12.8   15.5   15.5  12.8            -0.2
Cash Flow Befor Financing_ 36.6  36.6  36.6  40.9  40.6  40.6    36.6    36.6   40.6                       0.1
ram Family Benefits Before Fiaacing  45.3 1  T  4 5.   49.6 *9.3  4i9.    45.T _40.              .
Sources of Finance
.ransfer from Previous Period         15.3  15.3  15.3  12.6  12.6  12.6   15.3    15.3  12.6           -0.2
Less Transfer to Next Period          15.3  15.3  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6   15.3   15.3  12.6            -0.2
Sub-Totnl Sources of Fa                    -      -   2.7                                         -          -
Cash Flow After Financing               36.6  36.6  39.3  40.9  40.6  *0.6   36.6   36.6   40.6            0.1
Residual value of
Transfer to Ifast Period                  -  15.3     -     -     -  12.6        -    15.3   12.6       -0.2
Fae Fmly Benefits, fter   naing   45.3  60.5  47.9  49.6  49.)  61.9    4.3    60.5   61.9                 0.0
.ewann per famaly-Day of Labor           0      0.3   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.3      0.2     0.3    0.3        0.2
R7 - None. NPV - 31.95
ka :yuan ZLU80--265
Wed Dec 22 37:50:15 1993
4-1 Host between Ell80--265 Crop model



- 131                                                      ANNX
Table 21
China
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project--Wonmenqtoa Subproject
Host in Won mnetan Farm Model
(In Yuan Hundred) /a
Seotember--October
WithFout
Proi ct        With Proiset                Future  Future Percentage
1 to              2 to   10          Present Without With    Chanas
29    30     1     9   to 29  30       :      30      30       4
Mazn Production
Faod c:ops                            20.1  20.1  20.1  20.0  20.0  20.0    20.1    20.1   20.0            -
.daa  Crcps                            3.4   3.4   3.4   4.1   4.1   4.1       3.4     3.4    4.1        0.2
4eat and elqs                          6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0       6.0     6.0    6.0          -
Sub-total MoA Production                29.6  29.6 29.6 3r. 3 0.1  3 0.1 30.       6 26  .( -.
By Products
Fodde: and forage                      3.9   3.9   3.9   4.0   4.0   4.0       3.9     3.9    4.0        0.1
Meoat *a  eggs                         3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2       3.2     3.2    3.2          -
Otaner ar._n. ;roducts                 0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6       0.6     0.6    0.6
Sub-total BipCrduts                     .26   7.6   7.6   7.6 8     6 =       .      76  7.6    7.8        0.0
Gro(s Value Of Produmc on               37.2  37.2  37.2  37.9  37.9  37.9    37.2  37.2   37.9            0.0
On-Fam Ut
Food Crcps                             1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7       1.7     1.7    1.7          -
Fodder and forage                      0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6       0.6     0.6    0.6
othar auna. proaucts                   0.3   0.1   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       3.3     0.3    0.3          -
Sub-Total On-ta  Use                    76   2.6  2.6   2.6  2.6   2.6           2.6     2.6    2.6          -
On-Faza Consumption
Food crops                             7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4       7.4     7.4    1.4
Cash Crops                             1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7       1.7     1.7    1.7          -
"eat ano eqgs                          jj    1.4   1.1l4 1.4   1.t    4        1.4     1.4    1.4 
Sub-Total On-era  Consumption                                    10.5  --               10.5  10.5 1
not Value Of Prodwtnon                  24.0  24.7  24.0  24.8  24.8  4.0  24.0    24.0  24.6              0.0
Other Iufowe
Ctner Income                          12.6  12.6  12.6  17.1  17.1  17.1    12.6    12.6  17.1           0.4
nYS                                   36.6 36.6  36.6  36.6  41.6  41.6  41.8    36.6    36.6   41.8     0.1
Produatoan Cost
Seeds                                  1.7   1.7   1.7   1.6   1.6   1.6       1.7     1.7    1.6       -0.1
Fertilizers and pesticide              5.7   5.7   5.7   5.9   5.9   5.9       5.7     5.7    5.9        0.0
Ott-er animal products                 0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7       0.7     0.7    0.7       -0.1
Ot!her inputs                          2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4       2.4     2.4    2.4          -
Young antmals                          0.8   0.8   0.8   0.6   0.8   0.8       0.0     0.8    0.8
Sub-Total Produoa  Cost                 11.3   11.3  11.3  11.3   1.3  11.3    11.3    11.3   11.3           -
Other :r.puts                          0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.7   2.7       0.3     0.3    2.7        7.1
OUTFLOWS                    ~~~~~~~~~13.7  11. 7- 31.7  11.6  14.0  14.0   3.1.7 1.7 40... A
cash Floj Before   aZnaS.0              25.0  25.0  2.   30.2  27.9  27.9  25.0    25.0   27.9              0.1
Facm famiy Senefits 3e06c  lanang  35.5  35.5  35.5  40.7  38.4  36.4    35.5    WV3i7i                    0.1
Souroe of rinas
zransfer from Previous Period         11.3  11.3   11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3    11.3    11.3   11.3
.ess Transfer to Next Period          11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3    11.3    11.3   11.3
Sub-Total SourS   Of finanee                -     -   0.0     -     -      -       -       -      -          -
C.as  flow After Fanamzour              25.0  2S.0  25.0  30.2         27.9    25.0    25.0   27.9         0.1
Res&dual value of
Tran'fer to lsft Period                   -  11.3     -     -     -  11.3        -    11.3   11.3          -
Farn ramaly Benfits After Finanily   35.5  46.8  35.5  40.7  36.4  49.7    35.5    46.8   49.7             0.1
Retuzus per ramay-fay of Labor            0.3   0.4   0.3   03                    .3     0.4    0.4        0.1
RR - Ionne, NPV - 31.40
;a Hcst on gunmengtan
Wed Dec 22 37:55:56 1993
3-1 Host in Wonmngtan Farm odel



132
Table 22
China
xiaQlattqdi Resettionent Project-Hanglin county
Host Income fog Near Move in Monqjift farm Model
tnUAICVZ BUDIZZ (AQ=MXAM)
(in Yuon Hmdted) /&
Septomber-Octobor
Without
Project                               with pcoioct                                         future  future ParCGfkt&qe
1 to                                                           a to   10            present without  with         Change
-19    30      1      2      3      4      S      6      7   _L_ to 29  30   __I__    30                30         4
1111113A PeaductLeA
F'ood CVQPS                                 11.2  13-Z  11.Z  13.3  13.6  13.6  13.8  11.8  L3.8  13.8  13.0  13.$    13.2                  13.2   13.8            oll
Cash Crops                                   7.5   7.5   7.5   9.4   9.4   9.4   a's   8.9   0.8   8.8   0.8   8.9                  7.5      7.6      8.8          0.2
Fr-jit                                       0.5   0.5   Q.S        -       -      -   2.1   3.2   3.7   4.2   4.2   4.2            0.5      *.5      4.2          6. -f
Meet and eggs                                3.1   3.1   3.1   5.4   5.4   5.1   S.4   S.4   5.4   5.4   S.4   9.4                  3.1      3.1      5.4          0.7
sub-PAt" N"n PzoduotLon                       24.4 4=4 =4.4 9=2 8=4 7aS =0 I =1 2 =1 7 =2 2 2=2 -3T.-Z 2-4.4 24.4 .12.2  013
By vroduate
todde: and forage                            2.6   Z.6   Z.6   2.8   2.0   2,0   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7  - 2.7   2.7                 2.6      2.6      2.7          0.0
Meat and eggs                                2.0   2.0   2.0   2.1   21   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1                  2.0      2.0      2.1          0.1
Othez 4nimal. products                       0.2   0.2 ::Ij    0.2   0.2- _2.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                  0.2      O.Z      0. 02        0.4
-T.7 -  -                                         5             0.
Sub-total Ilyproduats                          4.8   4.8            5.1   5.1   5.1   5.0   S.0                5.0   3.0   5.0        4.8       4.8
ftess Velue Of ProductLm                      29.1  29.1  29.1  33.3  33.5  32.6  35.2  36.2  36.7 =-'. 3 =7.3 77-3    29.1    29.1   37.3                           0.3
On-F.- U"
FoW  crops                                   1.0   1.8   1.8   2.3   2.3   2.3   2,3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.-                  1.8      1.0      2.3          0.3
fcddor end forage                            0-    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                  0.1      0.1      6.1          0.2
Ot.1%ec animl Rcoducts                       0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2                  0.2      0.2      0.2          014
Sub-Total an-Pam  U"                           2.1   2.1   2.1.  2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6 -2.6                        - 2.1    2.6              0.3
On-ra- consuopum
F'ood crops                                  4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7                  4.7      4.7     4.7             -
1                                                                                                           2.0   2.0   2.0                           2.0
Cash Crops                                   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.3   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0                                    2.0      2.0                     -
Heat or4 eqqs                                1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7                           1.7      1.7            -
Sub-Total OIL-Irazm Canwmptum                  8.4   8.4   0 4   6. 4   3 4   8.4   8.4   8 4   8 4   8.4   8.4   0.4 = 6                       8.4     6.4             -
not vaiuo ot Vzoduatlan                       18.7  19.7  18.7  22.2  22.5 =27  -T4-.2  25.2  25.7  26.3  26.3 -H-.3    18.7 -18.7 2-6. 3                            0.4
Other maglowe
Othec incme                                  8.2   S.2   8.2   8.7   8.7   0.1   0.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8'7                           8.2      9.7          0.1
MOLOM                                       26.8 =6.9 =6. 0 =0.9 =1.2 =1.3 2=8 3=9 =4.4 =4. 9 =4.9 =4.9 2H. -26.8 3-4.4   0.3
PradMation Cost
ZM~tmMt
se"lings                                                        0.4
apeze"As
Seeds                                      1.2   1.2   1.2   1.5   1.5   1.6   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4                  1.2      1.2      1.4          0.1
S*Wliaqs                                   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3                 0.3       0.3     0.3           0.1
F41rtiliZSCS and pesticide                 4.3   4.3   4.3   5.0   5.2   S.4   5.6   5.0   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1                 4.3       4.3     6.1           0.4
Other inputs                               2.6   2.6   2.6   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0                  2.6      2.6      3.0          0.2
Other animal products                      0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0. qs   0.6   0.6   0.6                0.6      0.6      0.6         -0.0
Yotmq anLoals                              0.4   0.4   0.4   0.7   0.1   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7                 0.4       0.4      0.7          0.0
sub-tot&L opmat"g cmto                       9 4  9-4  "   11 2 1, 4                        =1 0 =a                                     -9.4  12.1                 0.3
_LI 6  11 5                         12.1  12.1        9.4
Sub-Total product4on Cmt                        5.4      4   9.4  11.6  11.4  11.6  II.S  11.8  12.1  12.1  i2-.1 =2.1 - 9.4 - 9.4   12.1                             O3
tax"
other inputs                                 0 s   "       0 s - -          -      -      - ----=    0.3   0.3   1.0   1.0          0.5       O.S     1.0          1.2
OUZFLM                                       9.9 -s. 9 9.9 11.6    =1.6 =1.5 ii-O 12.# =2.4 =1.1 =3.1 -9.9 -99  1-3.1                                             0.3
cash now wom winaucuw                         17.0  .0 7=0 9=4 I =9 7 21 :F-          -- -12-1 2=0 2-2.5 2-1.8 'TI-0                      -17.0 -2-F-8 -   0.3
rem raauy sawfits &ifoc* ftnaw3ug 2S.3 =S..l =5.3 -1-7-7    -57.1 29.7 30.5 =0.4 =0.9 -30.2 30.2  25.3  25.3 3-0. 2                                                 072
soutc" Of rinoLoo
Transfer from Previous Peciod                9.4   9.4   S.4  11.6  11.4  11.6  11.5  11.8  12.1  12.1  12.1  12.1                  9.4      9.4   12.1            0.3
Less Tra"fer to Next Period                  9.4   9.4  11.6  21.4  11.6  JI.S  11.9  12.1  12.1 _LZ. 1  12.1 _L2. 1 ___2. 4                 9.4   12.1            0.3
sub-Total sauce"  Of winalai"                                        0.2  -0.2   0.1  -0.2  -0.3          -      -      -      -         -        -        -            -
Cub now After winawAm                        =-Y0 7=0 4=8 9=5 9=6 9=8 -FL-* 1=9 -jZ-0 =2S =L 0-TI-e 1-7 0 1-7 0 -M-8  0.3
PA"d"l Val" of
Transfer to Next pect"                          -   9.4       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -  12-1                9.4   12.2            0.3
M.- famly soneftto After Vlasnoukg =5 3 4=8 =3 2 =I =8.0 -28.1 2-9.4 =0 2 =0.4 =0.9 =0.2 42.3 25.3 3-4.8 42.3  072
1 Labco                                       0.1                                                                                      -0.1
Ratmicas Pam rawly-Day OL                       0 1   0 2   0 I   0 1              O.,   O., -0- I   0-1   0-1   0-1   0.2            0.1       0.2     0.2
muezeenatal pAtu=w VW Mmuccamtel
faaLly-Day of Ubm                               -      -      -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                 -         -     0.1
IRR - 129.0%, NPV - 28.47
X& in Pingle Kiang
Wed rec 22 '8:02.,53 1993
4-1 Mst Income tot Near Rove in Menqjin Fars lftdQl



133-
7                  ~~~ANNEX 
Table 23
China
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project--mengi in County
Host income for Near cove in tengjin Farm Model
(In Yuan Hundred) /e
September--October
Without
Pro-ect                          With Proect                                   Future  Future Percentage
t to                                                   8 to   10         Preent Without With    Change
29    30     1     2      3           S     6 7         9  to 29  30       _I    30        30        4
0a'n Production
Food crops                            16.2  16.2  16.2  15.4  15.4 1254  15.4  15.4  15.4  15.4  15.4  15.4    16.2    16.2   15.4            -0.1
:asn :rops                             9.1   9.1   9.1   9.9   9.9   9.9   8.9   8.9   8.9   8.9  8.9   8.9        9.1      9.1    8.9       -0.0
Fr,.;:e-                               3.0   3.0   3.0      -     -     -  2.9   4.4   S.1   S.8   5.8   5.8        3.0     3.0    5.8         0.9
Xeat and eggs                          32.   3.1   3.1   S.4   5.4   5.4   5.4   S.4   5.4   5.4  5.4   5.4         3.1     3.1    5.4         0.7
Sub-total Main ftoductxom               31.5  31.5  31.5  10.7  30.7  30.7  32.7  34.1  34.8  35.6  35.6  35.6    31.5    31.5   35.6            0.1
ay Products
Fooder and forage                      2.9   2.9   2.9   3.1   3.1  3.1   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9        2.9      2.9    2.9         0.0,
Meet anct eqgx                         2.0   2.0   2.0   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1        2.0     2.0    2.1         0.1
Otner acn.mai products                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2  0.2   0.2   0.2         0.2     0.2    0.2         0.4
Sub-total 8yproducts                     5.0 i    5.0 a      . 4 S.4   5.4   5.2   5.2 S.2   5.2 S5.2   9.Z           5.0     5.0           -I.1
Gross Value Of Productcam               36.5  3i?  36.5  36.1  38.1  36.1 37.9  39.4  4041 40.8 Ia40.8 5408  36                                    1
On-Fam V28
Faod creps                             1.8   1.0   1.8.  2.3   2.3  2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   Z.3   2.3   2.3         1.0     1.8    2.3         0.2
Fodder ar.Cd zraqe                     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1         0.2
a'-er  a -al products                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2 ..          0.2     0.2    0.2         0.4
Sub-Total On-Fam Vs*                     2.1   2.'  2.1   2.6  2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6          2.1     2.1    2.6         0.3
On-ra cornzupton
scc  :rops                             4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7  4.7   4.7   4,7   4.7   4.7   4.7         4.7     4.7    4.7           -
lasn Zrops                             2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0       2.0      2.0    2.0           -
Heat and eq9s                           1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7  :.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7               1.7    1.7    1.7-
Sub-Total On-Fam Consmption              8.4   8.4   8.4   0.4   8.4  8.4   8.4   0.1   8.4   8.4   4 8   8.4         8.4    8.4    8.4 5
got Value Of Production                 26.0  26.0  26.0  25.1  25.1  25.1  26.9  28.4  29.1  29.8  29.0  29.8    26.0    26.0   29.8            0.2
Other   flows
Cther Income                            8.2   8.2   8.2   8.7   8..   8.'   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   0.7   8.7       8.2     8.2    8.7         0.1
DIELOWS                               34.2  34.2  34.2  33.7  33.7  33.7  35.6  37.0  37.7  38.5  38.5  38.5    34.2    34.2   38.S            0.1
Production Cost
Investment
Seedlinqs                              -      -     -   0.5           -     -         -     -     -     -      -            -      -           -
Op.racin
Seeds                                1.6   1.6   1.6   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6        1.6     1.6    1.6           -
Seedlinqs                            0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6        0.6     0.6    0.6        -0.1
Fertilizers and pesticide            5.5   S.S   5.5   5.6   5.9   6.2   6.3   6.7   7.1   7.1   7.1   7.1       5.5      S.5    7.1         0.3
Other inputs                         3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3        3.3     3.3    3.3        -0.0
Other animal products                0.9   0.9   0.9   0.0   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8       0.9      0.9    0.8        -0.1
Young animals                        0.4   0.4   0.4   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7        0.4     0.4    0.7         o.e
Sub-total Operating Costs             12.3  12.3  12.3  12.7  13.0  13.3  13.2  13.6  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0    12.3    12.3   11.0            0.1
Sub-Total Production Cost               12.3  12.3  12.3  13.3  13.0  13.3  13.2  13.6  14.  .0 14.0 14.0    12.3    12.3   14.0                 0.1
Taze.
S:.rst p:                                .    05 05         -                            0.3   0.3  ;.0   1.0       0.S     0.5    1.0         1.2
OUTI%OS                               12.8  12.8  12.8  13.3  13.0  13.3  13.2 13.6  14.3 1 i**   15.0  19.0    12.8    12.8   15.0            0.2
C"h flow Before finanr ing              21.4  21.4  221.4  20.5  20.7 20.4  22.3  234 23.4 24.2  23.5  23.5    21.4    21.4   23.5               0.1
arm Famsly Benefits Before Fi2aning  29.8  29.8  29.8  29  9.1   8.8  30.7  31.8  31.8  32.6                31.9    29.8    29.8      .9         0.1
Souzces of Finance
Trcansfer froa Previous Period         12.3  12.3  12.3  13.3  13.0  13.3  13.2  13.6  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0    12.3    12.3   14.0           0.1
Less Transfer to Next Period          12.3  12.3  13.3  13.0 _13.3  13.2  13.6  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0  14.0    12.3    12.3   14.0            0.1
Sub-Total Sources of        e                     -  --.0   0.2  -0.3  01   -3  -4                                -     0                          -
Cash flow After Financing               21.4  21.4  20.4  20.7  20.4  20.5  22.0  23.0  23.4  24.2  23.5  23.5    21.4    21.4   23.5            0.1
PAsidua value of
Tran.fer tolMot Period                    -12.3       -     --                 -     -     -     -     -14.0          -    12.3   14.0         0.1
Tam fa=ly Benefits After fImancing   29.8 4.1  -           19    28.8 28.9 J304  31.5   32.6 31.9                  29.8 42.1  45.80              1
Raturne per Famly-Day of Labor            0.1   p.    0.1   0.1   01   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2            _ 0.2    0.2          -0.0
incremental aetum. per Inomental
fauily-Day of Labor                       -     -     -     -      -     -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1         -      -    0.-
1RR - 31.31, 74?V - 7.21
a* in Sonqzhuang and chacyang Xiang
Weo Zec 22 08:34.20 1993
5-1 Host Incom for Near Move in Kenqjin Farm Model



134
Table 24
China
xi4olang4i Resoctiamerit Project--mon9jin County
Host InC*9w fat Have Back in mon9JiA farm mOdOl
WZWISCZAL BLMM        (ROOMA   t
(In Yuan Hundredl /a
SeptoLmr--october
Wxthout
P-cl_                                 With Project                                       Futuze Future Percentage
1 to                                                        a to   LO            Present Without  With  __OAKS
29    3 or    I      2      3      4                   7      9   to 29  30   -  1         30       30         1
vrodwtzon
Food crors                                13.3  13.0  13.0  15.2  15.4  15.5  15.7  15.7  IS.7  LS.?  15.7  15.7    L3.0    U.0   15.7                       0.2
Caslt :r*ps                                6.6   6.,6   6.6  13.2  :3.2  L3.2  11.7  11.7  11.1  11.7  11,7  11.7              6A       6.6   11.7           0.0
Fruit                                      3.3   3.3   3.3        -      -      -   4.9   7.3   8.4   9.7   9.7   9.7          3.3      j.3    9.7           1.9
Meat and eqqs                              4 1   4 1   4 1   S I   5 I   S I   S I   S I   5-1   S-1   S'l   5.1               4.7       1,7    5.1          001
27.7  27.7  27.7  33.5  33.9  33.9  37.3                                                    21.
Sub-total K"n Prodwrt4ou                                                                    39.a   0.9  472-2 -42-2 _T2_2    2-7. 't             42.2          0.5
By Product*                                                                                    -
Foader and forage                          2.5   2.5   2.5   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1 - 3.1               2.5      2.S    3.1           0.2
Keat and oqqs                              1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2               112      1.2    1.2           0.0
Other anlz*. products                      1. 2   0.2   0.2   0.2   3.2   0.2   Oi2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   O.Z              0.2      0.2    0.2           0.0
Sub-total Byprodacts                          3 9 3 9 3 9 4 7 4 7 4 6 4 5 4 6 _1_5 4-5 4-S 4.5 -1 9 -3.9 -4. 5  O 7
Gross Value Of Production                    3;.6 -TI-6 =1.6 7S.2  36.5 =8.6  41.9  44.3  4S.S  46.1) _j6_7 --4-(,7             31.4    31.6   46.1           O 75
on-Fam  Al"                                                                                                                                         -
Fcod crops                                        1.9  11.9   1.9   1.9   L9   1.9   1.9   1.91  1.%   1.9   1.9               1.9      1.9    1.9           0.0
Fodder and forage                          0.1   O.,   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   O.L   0.1   0.1   0.1               0.1      0.1    0.1           0.0
Other anizal products                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2               0.2      0.2    0.2           0.0
Sub-Total Otk-fwm Use,                        Z.2   2.2   2.2   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3 -2.1   2.3 - 2.. 2 - 2.2    2.3 -                      F.O
On-f'am Consumption
roaa crops                                 4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7               4.7      4.7    4.7
Cash Crops                                 2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0               2.0      2.0    2.0
Meat and oqqs                               1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7  -..?  -,. 7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7             1.7      1.1    1.7
Sub-Tota.t (EL-ram  Consumption                          -        8 4   O 4   0 4   9 4   & 4   0 4   6 4   6 4   6 4            R 4      $ 4    0 4
Not value 09 Producuaw                       21.0  Z1.0  21.0  27.5  27.9  28.0  31.2 =3.6  34.0 =6.1 =6.1 -36-1    21.0 -21.0   36.1                          0.7
Purchased Consumption
Cash Crops                                 O.e   0.9   0.8        -      -      -   0.5   0.5   0.5   O.S   0.5   0.5          0.0      0.0    O.S          -0.4
Meat and eggs                              0 1-   0 1   0 1   0 1   0 I   0 1   0 1   0-1   0 1   0 1   0 1   0 1              0"       ovi    0.1              -
Sub-Total Purchased Conomptum                 0.9   0.9   0.9   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5   O.S   0.5   O.S   0.5   0.5              0.9       0.9    0.5         -0.4
Other 1"'Iowo
Other Incom                                 e.2   8.2   8.2   6.7   B.T   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   8.7   9.7   8.7              8.2      8.2    S.7           0.1
nirLows                                   =8 3 =0 3 6=1 =6 I =6 6 =6 6 =9 4 =1 0 _r3_0 4=2 4=2 4=2 -20 3 2-0 3 4-4 2 0 6
Product-do Cost
Tavsgtmmt
Seedlings                                  -      -      -   0.9       -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -        -        -       -            -
"-tU*
Seeds                                    1.1   1.1   1.1   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4               1.1      1.1    1.4           0.3
Seedlinqs                                0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4               0.3      0.3    0,4           0.0
rectilizets and posticide                4.6   4.6   4.6   6.7   1.2   7.7   7.0   9.5   9.2   9.2   9.2   9.2               4.6      4.6    9.2           1.0
Other inputs                             2.4   2.4   2.4   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6               2.4      2.4    3.6           0.5
other animal products                    O.S   a.5   O.S   0.9   0.0   0.6   0.9   0.0   0.9   0.0   0.9   0.8               0.5      0.5    0.8           0.5
Younq 4nimls                             0-7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0-7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0,7               0,7      0.7    0.7           O.I
91.6   9-6          3.9  14.4  14.9  14.8                                16.0      9.6
Sub-total OperatLng Costs                              -79.6 =                            IS.1 =6 - 0 =6.0 =6.0                         9.6   16.0           0.7
Sub-Total Produatzon Cost                  -9.6   9.6   9.6  14.0  14.4  14.9 74-78 75 M   -r6-.O INUO =6.0  16.0 - 9.6                   9.6   16.0           0.7
Taxell
other inputs                               I 2   1 2   1 2                                        0.3   0.3   I.S   I.S        1.2      1.2    1.5           0.3
10.6 10.8 10.8 14.8 j4.4    4_8 IT-3 :R  -1 6-3 -1-1-5 =7 1-0 0 1-0 0 =7
OUTTZ.M                                                                     14.9 _L
-r-7 US =1.4  22.1  22.7  24.6  26.5            27.9  26.7  26.7                                      0.5
cash now ikfoce rmaoci"                      17.5                                                                               17.5    1-1. 5   26.7
Irass, famUy gmefzts Sacco Rtuancuq 25.9 25.9 25.9 29.7 -ra-4 7O.1 -33-W -U-3 -1-sl -is-3 IT-1 'Ts-i  5.9 --W-9 3-5. I                                         0.4
amwees of liagnee
Transfer from Previous Period              9.6   9.6   9.6  14.0  U.#  14.9  14.0  15.3  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0                9.6      9.6   16.0           0.7
Wss Transfet tg Most Period                916        _114.1  14.4  14.9  14.8  IS.3  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  16.0             9 0 6    946   16.0           0.7
30-Total gaurces of finnnee                -=             -5.2   0.4  -0.5 o- i -=01F -_-0-j            ---=        -      -        -        - _     _            -
C&A flow After fxnancing                     17 5    12 3 -21-7 _71-16 -rl-S 24 0 2S.6 6=7 =7 9 6=7 6=1  15.5 1-7 5 26.7  075
PA"dul V"Ue Of
Transfor to wext ve"Od                            9.6      -      -             -                                    16.0               9.6   16.0           0.7
faxm famly Sonefsto After II-en wW   JU             35.S =0.7  30.1            30.2  T2.;  34.2  rs.   36.3  3T.; 71-0    TS                   -5-1-0 -        7_4
RAtucas per famay-Day of Labor                0-1 0-2 0-1 -0.1    -0. I 0-1 O., -37  0.1 0.1 0.2  0*1  Ow2 _2_2
incremntal R*tu=s per MacresEwatal
Famaly-Day of Labcw                           -      -     -   010   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                -        -    0.1
IRR - 90.81. NFV - 49.60
\a in vceiyao, honqshul, Matun Xiang in Maglin
Wed Dec 22 00:02:20 1993
3-1 Most Iftce" for 14ov. Back in mo"jin farm =60I



China
Riao3simdi Resettlement Iscoloct-4inans County- Below too
Ilust-- float move belo 3800 in lne,. Count:, F.Ift Ikludl
Ina Yu"n Iunduodi la
SeAo"eeg--Octobor
Without
PC21-  -   -       -    viOu21t  gosiet-                             bltur. Fututis Forcenita.j.
MRo                                                 1iT,;30            presenat without with   Chajogq...
29   AL0   _2   _2    _3       4   _.9    6      7    9  to 291 so39                    'iI
Food Csf'p                           19.4  I9.41 19.4  113.9  19.3  39.6  16.4  16.4  16.6  16.4  16.4  16.4    29.4   19.4  16.6         0.1
Cash Cs                               6.0   6.0  6.0  16.6  14.6  14.6  7.9   7.9  7.9  7.9  7.9  7).9          0.0    8.,0   1.9        -0.0
tral%                   -     -                           S~~~~~~~~  .1I  9.6  13.6  39.9  19.9  39.90  -  -  39.9 
Walsi d am  SW                        6.0   6.0  B.0  6.0-  6.0-  6.0G  6.0   6.0  6.0  6.0   6.0  6.0          6.0    6.4   6.0-
GIbes s"iaa  products                 0.3   0.1 ..Ad   0.1   0.3   0.1   0.2   0.2  0.3   0.2  8.1  -j0. I       2.    0.1   0.3 
su.ttoe1 gain P-.mt*l                  29.929.  29.9 -34.9 -39.7  36G.2 -39.4  40.3 744.1  49.9 -49.9  49.9  259.,  -29.9 -49.9             0.7
Fodder end (Ora"e                     2.6   2.0   2.9   2.5   2.7   2.6   2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9  2.9          2.8    2.6   2.9          0.0
Set end "egs                          2.9  1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   I.9 2A .9   2.9  1.9  3.9  1.9  3.9          3.9    1.9    3.9 
4Lb45 0aine) pirOducts                0.2 -0.2 _1.1   0.2   0.2   0.2  0.2  0.2   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2    0.2             0.2   0. ~    -    -
grows Yule 00 3smduoptAi               34.4  14.4  14.4  39.2  46-.9  43.ri2  40.74 -49.2  49.1  4.9  4.9  94.9   34.4   34 .-4  94.9      .0.6
Frond ecrps                           2.3   2.3  2.3  2.3   2.3  2.1.   2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3            2.3    2.3   2,3-
F~are and farae"                      0.2   0.1  0.1  0.1   0.1   0.2  0.1   0.2   0.1  0.1  01.1,  0.2         0.3    6.3    0.3 
49mhs camel prodicts                  0.2   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2~ _....1    0.2   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2         0.2    0.2   0.2 
$kg*-lo     on-Vs  Pee                  2.6   2.6 a       i:i   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6    2.6   -2.6    2.16-
row *rq                               4.3   4.1  4.3     4. 4.    4.1  4.1  4.2   4.1  4.3  6.3  4.3            4.2    4.3    4.3 
Cash Crop.                            1.9   1.9   3.9  3.9   3.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9  1.9  2.9  2.9         1.91    1.9   1.9-
troll                                 0.2   0.2   0.2  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2  0.2  0.2   0.2  0.2         0.2    0.2    0.2 
lesoisi eggO   o1.0  2.0  3.0   2.0   2.0 --L.    2.0  I. a 2.0   2.0  1.0   3.0,,I4                                    3.0 __).'
Su-gTe1 de-rft Conttio                   .2  7.2   7. 2   -7.2 .71.    *. 72 7.2         .2   7.2  7.1..   7.2    7.2   -1Vi    7.2 
NeVallee  f W,tioo                   24.  24.  24-.6  29.6  30.7  31.-4  136.6 -7S3 9.3~ 49S.2  4.1 49.3    24.5  -24.6  495.1            0.6
gmshace caeneUne
Fralt                                 0.2  0.2   0.2  0.2   0.2   0.2---                            -0.2    0.2                  - 
06t:Lt Income                          7.31   .   7.3 j.0   6 0 6.0  60. 96.0  11.0  8..j    6.0   0.0    7.3    7.1   6.0                 0.
31 .6  -2.6  32.9  372  39.6  19, G167  4r3.4 4r7.4  93.  9f3-. 9-3.2   -32.0   31.0  93.1           0.
Seedlings                                             3.  -    - 17 -----                                 -        -         -
asebxd UZapsl
seed                              1.3   1.3  3.3  1.2   2.2   3.2  2.2  1.2   3.2  2.2  2.2  2.2            3.3    1.3   1.2        -0.3
seunedng                          0.61  0.8  0.8   0.7  0.7   0.7   0.7  0.7   0.7  0.7  0.7   0.7          0.6    0.8   0.1        -0.2
Fertilisess ead pesticide         4.4   4.4  4.4   7.6   4.3  21.9  14.4  17.0  27.0  17.0  27.0  37.0    4.4    4.4   17.0          2.0
Othes lopula                      4.1   4.3  4.3  6.4   6.9   6.9   9.9   9.9   9.9  9.9  9.9   9.9    4.3    4.1   9.9               0.3
other anmim  products             0.7   0.7  0.71  0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6  0.0   0.6    0.7    0.7    0.6            -0.0
Young eninala                     0.6  0.6   0.6  0.6  .6   0. 0.6   0,6 0jj.6~ 0.    .              .       .       .      .          -
pu-Te#a1 Vumobseed D.uA"           320 2.0  22,0  39.0  20O.2 2i3.9 -23.0  29.6.6  6 5.6  6 S.6   76 296   -12.0  312.0  295.6         2.
Woard Laobo
Farn, Isilc                         -     -     -  6.4   9.9  7.,3   3.2  3.2j  3.2  _.1.1   3.2   3.2        -       -   3.2 
kis-otal 01,eSt6ag C"ost            IF2I -iT2-i 12.0  25.4  26.2  11.0 2F6.2 -26.9  29.6  26.0 28.98  2M8.6   312.0  1-2.0  26.8 ai
Su-lotsil Prodmtarm C..l               12.0  12-.0  12.0  29.21 26O.2 -2.0* -276.2  20-.0  29.6 -26.6  28.0 i20.6   32.0   22.0    88       .
Other inpwot                          0.3   0.3   0.3.03                                          j  0.3   0.3   2.6 g6 03 0)-           7.01
0w5t15n                              32.   32.3, 12.329. J        7 30  26.2  6.8  1?  29.331.1  31.4    12.3   12.3  31.4 6
Ceeb nowe 0.feae fincaag               394   9.  1.4  S., J!A4  8...L   "ii  _.L   0.31  2. 11.2   L              94     3. 21.7 h9
tern FeelS? Umenetftt. tos. Foacasaig  26.76  26.6  26.6  19.3  29.6  39.4  29.6  23.0  2.9  31.3  26.9  28.9 i  26.6   26.6 -2.9          0.3
sawn.. of Finance
less"sir inne frovious Period        22.0  12.0  12.0  29.1 26.2  11.0  26.2  26.0  29.6  26.8  28.8  28.8   22.0   32.0  28.8           3.4
Lemss Frensfor to Next Period       _3",2.0  32.0  29.3  26.2  32.0   2.226.9  28.0  26.  26.6 J0..!  26.8   12.0   12.0  .20.6          1.4
sub-total. SoWAe" of tinsnoe              .       .7.1   2.9  .49%  4.9  -2.6. 
Cash n1ow AftsS Fiowtg                'iVi  19.4  -2.4  13.0  -7.9  23. I    9.9  14.6  18.3  24.1  21.7  21.7   29.4    3    ".4 t227     0.
Useads"t value QC 
wcossnfor to lext period                -  32.0.-               --                      -26.6                     -   12.0  281.8        2.6
Vsgam  mlmy DowitoAfter fiasa0og  -11 7giii-i-iF re2-i 347  20.2   M H- 37.2   ii          i 13.  28.9 937.7  -26.6   38.6  967.7-         0U.9
metigec per pmbly-Dsv of Labor          0.   -02  40.    .2                                    .!        2      .. i2           03  
IRA - 3.32. NOV - -32.49
%. in cijiea. chonggtentliong, tieman, Ucis,, and Iheagnunk Xhang 
Slat Dec 19 06:24:26 1993
6-1 Noxt-- Hoar move tolow ISOn in Kinan County farm Ntoda



-136-
China                                             Tbe2
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project--KaifengTable  26
Household Income for Host in Kaifeng Farm Model
=M     A    -UD      (AN3Om)
(In Yuan Hundred) /a
September--October
Without
Project        With Proiect                 Futute  Future Percentage
I to              2 to  7 to         Present Without  With    Chance
29    30     1      6    29    30       1      30       30   _
) kodtion
Food crops                             20.3  20.3  20.3  17.3  17.3  17.3    -7.3    20.3   17.3           -0.1
Cash Crops                             21.3  21.3  21.3  36.1  36.1  36.1    -:.3    21.3   36.1            0.7
Fri:u.t                                 9.0   9.0   9.0  11.5  11.5  11.5       4.0      9.0   11.5         0.3
Meat and eggs                           5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6        5.6    5.6  5.6 _
Sub-tot"l Main kro4otloa                  56.1  56.1  56.1  70.4  70.4  70.4   -56.1    36.1   70.4           0.3
By Po*ot
Fodder and forage                       4.3   4.3   4.3   5.1   5.1   5.1       4.3  -  4.3    5.1          0.2
Meat and eggs                            1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3       1.3     1.3    1.3           -
lM.anure--Anima                         0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        0.2     0.2    0.2           -
Sub-total 38produota                       5 8   5.8   5.8   6.6   6.6   6.6       5.8     5.6    6.6         0.1
Goaa value Of Pzok.oaton                  61.9  61.9  61.9  77.0  77.0  77.0    61.9    61.9  t7.0            0.2
es-1a- Use
Food crops                              2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0       2.0      2.0    2.0           -
Fodder and forage                       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1           -
Manure--Anima                           0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.2      0.2    0.2           -
Sub-Total On-M&M  *w.                     2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.7   2.2       2.2      2.2    2.2           -
O-rftxm Conaettfet
Food crops                              7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9       7.9      7.9    7.9           -
Cash Crops                              1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5        1.5     1.5    1.5           -
?:uit                                   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       0.2      0.2    0.2           -
Meat and eggs                           0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9        0.9     0.9   0.9            -
Sub-total On-fWax  Cona ption             10.6  10.6  10.6  I0.6  10.6  10.6    t076    10.6   10.6             -
Not ValUe Of 1zaduation                   49.1  49.1  49.1  64.1  64.1  64.1    49.I    49.1   64.1           0.3
3urobada coaauuptlo
Cash Crops                               0.2   0.2   0.2      -     -     -      0.2     0.2       -          -
Otbez Zaflawa
Other Income                             5.6   5.6   5.6   6.3   6.3   6.3       5.6     5.6    6.3         0.1
MIT.A6S                                 54.4  54.4  54.4  70.4  70.4  7Q.4  54.4    54.4   70.4             0.3
.oIdsaton Cost
Seeds                                    3.8   3.8   3.8   4.4   4.4   4.4       3.8     3.8    4.4         0.2
Seedlings                               0.7   0.7   0.7       -     -     -     0.7      0.7      -           -
Fertilizers and pesticide               6.9   6.9   6.9  10.9  10.9  10.9       6.9      6.9   10.9         0.6
Manure--Anima                            1.5   1.5   1.5   1.7   1.7   1.7       1.5     1.5    1.7         0.2
Other inputs                            6.2   6.2   6.2   7.7   7.7   7.7        6.2     6.2    7.7         0.3
Young animals                           0.8   0.8   0.8   ^.8   0.8   0.8       0.8      0.8    0.8           -
Sub-Total  zotuarc  Coat                179.59  19.9  19.9  -o;.6  25.6  25.6    19.9    19.9   25.6         0.3
Agriculture Tax                         0.2   0.2   0.2       -   0.4   0.4      0.2     0.2    0.4         1.1
OmTWt.@                                20.1  20.1  20.1  25.6  25.s9 -29 _'irl    20.1 -325                 0.3
Casb rlow Bfoze tlaaanaig                 34.3  34.3  34.3  44.9  44.5  44.5  3-4.3    34.3   44.5            0.3
Vase 1aily semefita 8n e fo    ft1aauaa  45.0  i5.0  45.0  55.5  5S.1  55.1    4T.0    45.0   55.1            0.2
Seosrns of *iame
Transfer from Previous Period          19.9  19.9  19.9  25.6  25.6  25.6    19.9    19.9   25.6            0.3
Less Transfer to Next Period           19.9  19.9  25.6  25.6  25.6  25.6    19.9    19.9   25.6            0.3
8ub-fota. Souzae" of rIlaJae                 -     -  -5-7   1 
Comb nlow Afteg Vtuan                     34.3  34.3  28.7  44.9  44.5  44.5    34.3    34.3   44.5           0.3
Rsidual vdaue aC
!r sofr to  eSbt fsci"a                    -  19.9     -      -     -  25.6        -    19.9   25.6         0.3
Vra  ra.ily   naef.ta Utes rtiamala    45.0  64.9  39.3  55.5  55.1  80.6    45.0    64.9   80.6              0.2
Retuma per V5mUy.-Uqy eof Labr             0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2       0.1     0.2    0.2        -0.1
ZnC=ant&L Veturna Vet ZGZsmtal
t:ly-DW of Labot                           -     -     -   0.1   0.1   0.1         -       -    0.1           -
IRR - 105.9%, NPV - 68.91
\a Kaifeng irrigation Area
Wed Dec 22 08:09:36 1993



-137-ANE 
ChIna                                  Table 2 7
Xiaolanodi Resettlement Project--ZHONGMU
Household rftome  for Host in Zhongmu Farm .Model
(In Yuan HuAdred) /a
September--October
Without
Project            With Prolect                     Future  Future Percentage
I to                      3 to  7 to         Present Without  with    Chta8qe
29    30      1     2      6    29    30        1      30       30        t
WAD  Vtdt:Ln
Foodc ^:ps                              20.2  20.2  20.2  lS.S  15.5  15.S  15.5    ZC.2    20.2   15.5              -0.2
Cast. Cczpa                              12.S  12.5  12.5  27.5  27.5  27.5  2t,5    12.5    12.5   27.5              1.2
Fruit                                     5.7   5,7   5,7   5,5   5.5   S.S   5.S         S. 57   5.7    5.5         -0.1   -
Meat and eggs                             s.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2         5.2     5.2    5.2            -
Sub -total MaLn ProdmotAan                 43.6  43.6  43.6  53.7  53.7  S3.          53.7  43.6   -43.6  5-3.7         0.2
Fou4d cropS                              0.3   0.3   0-3        -                         0.3     0.3
Focider and fo.:age                       3.2   3.2   3.2   3.5   3.9   3.9   3.9         3.2     3.2    3.9          O.;
.eat and eggs                            1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6          1.6     '.6     1.-
M.anure--Anima                            0.2   0.2   o? a_0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2          0.2     0.2   ,0.2-
Sub-total Bypzod>tane                       5.2   5.2   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7   S.7        S. 2    -5.2    5.7         0.1
Gross Value Of ProdbmatLon                -W.9  48.9' 48.9  5r9.4  S9-4  59.%4  59. 4'  48 .9 -4e.9   59.4   '          0;2
Food crops                                1.S   1.S    . 1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5    1.5 1         \ 1.5    1.5            -
Fodder and forage                        0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3          0.3     0.'    0.3-
Manure--AniMla                            0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         0.2     0.2    0.2            -
Sub-Tot&& On-Ift- 'Us -                            I .9   I.9   I.9   1.9   I.9   1.9       1.9    -1 .9   -1.9            -
Food CrOpS                                6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9   6.9         6.9     6.9    6.9            -
Cash Crops                                1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.0         l.8     1.8    1.8            -
Fru_                                     Q  .1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1        0.1     0.1    0.1            -
Meaat and eq93                            1.3   1.3   1.3 _1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3          1.3     1.3    1.3            -
Slab-eTotal Oa-ftZII Colsunlgtiotl         10.1  10.1  10.1  iO.l  10.1  10.1  10.1    10.1    10.1  _10.;
Not valueoOf profute"of                  316.8  3T6.S  36.8  47.3  47.13  4 7.3 -i7.3    36.8    36.83  47.3            0.3
Food crops                                  -     -      - 0.3   0.3   0.3   0-3            -       -    0.3             -
Cash Cncps                                        --     - 1. 5   1.5   1.5   1.5           -        -    1.S      
Sb-fot  l Puzhs"lu> CorneqrLen                       -          1.8   I's   1.8   1.S               ''      1.8-
Other Income                              3.9   3.9   3. 1   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2        3.9      3.9    4.2         0.1
2uMNX4                                   40.7 -TO-?  4C- 749.7 479.7  -9.77 4i9,t    40,7    40.7   49,7              0.2
2wadbection Cb t
Seeds                                                      04 4                                            
Fertilizers and pesticide                -      -      - 2.1        -     -      -        -       -       --
Other inputs                                               0  _ o7  _      _     _        _       _       _
SUb-total Zavost  tt coests-                                 3.2      - -          -     '-      --'-
O-3grtin 
Seeds                                  2.1   2.1   2.1   1.8   1.8   1.S   1.S          2.1     2.1    1.S         -0.1
Seedlings                              0.5   0.5   0-5       -      -      -     -      0.5     . S                  - 
Fertilizers and pesticide              5.7   5.7   5.7   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8         5.7      5.7    4.S         -0.2
M.anure--Anim&                          1.5   1.S   1.S   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.0         1.5     1.5    1.0         -0.3
Other inputs                            3.4   3.4   3.4   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7         3. 4    3.4    2.7         -0.2
Your.q animals                         0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6          0.6     0.6    0.6            -
Sub-total ow.=emti    cc.es              13.8  13.8  13.8  11.0  10.9  10.9  10.9    13.8    13.8   10.9             -0.2
Sub-Total ftedAchus Cost c=e3.8  13.8 _13.8  14.2  10.9  lO 9  tO. 9    13.8   -13.8 -10.9                             -0.2
Agricu.ture Tax                              0.4   0.4  0.4     -     - 04   0.4          0.4     0.4    0.4         -O.t
CZSFtC"S                      I~~~~~~~~~~4.2  142i  14.2  14.2  10.9  11.3  1.  42     1.       l3         -.
Cash now 8efo"r *=umocn                   -26.5 76-5 -26.5  3T5.5 -W-0  38.4  T8.4   -26.5    26.5   38.4               0.5
faas ra ily 8eufiets Before Xrinuimaqg  36.7  3T6.7  36.7  45.6 '48.9  48.6  48.6    36.7   -36.7   48.6                0.3
S4wsceJ Of 1*112">
Transfer from Previous Period            13.0  13.0  13.8  14.2  10.9  10.9  10.9    13.8    13.8   10.9             -o.2
Leas Transfer to Next Period             13.8  13.0  14.2  10.9  10.9 _10.9  10.9    13.8    13.8   10. 9            -0.2
Sub-Total Saurcos of PYsuus                   -      -  -0.4   3.3       -            -       -        -      --
Caleb r ew ikto n  aNa rYM =YubL;2.                6.5  26.71  388.  -38.8  38.4  38.4  2-6.5   _26.5   38.4            O.S
Residual Vaius of
Y Jwer to Next Period                       -  13.8      -      -     -      -10.9          -    13.8   10.9         -0.2
ftreft ra.lly sonatit  After  Yrinux"iL"    i6.7 -50.5  36.2  48.9  48.9  48.6 ~59.5    36.7    50.-S5 -9 5~i7          0.2
Ratuv= Xss Twaoly-Day of Labot              0.1   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3  O- .l1    0.2    0.3               0.4
1RR - 2,843.7%, N2V - 85.92
\a Zhoangu
Wed Dec 22 08:16:06 1993
2-1 Household Income for Host in Zhongmu Farm Model



- 138 -                                            Table 28
China
xiaolangdi Resettlement Proiect--in YuanYanq
Househo:d Income for Host in Yuanyang Farm Model
t   kmca swa caams
(In Yuan Hundred) /a
September--October
Without
Project        With Project                 Future  Future Percentage
1 to               2 to  7 to         Present Without  With    Chance
29    30      1     6    29    30       1       30      30        8
Main lroduotion
F.ot  crops                             s2.8  52.8  52.8  51.0  51.0  51.0    52.8    52.8   51.0           -0.0
Casn Craps                               5.5   5.5   5.5   5.3   5.3   5.3        5.5     5.5    5.3         -0.0
Meat and eggs                            5.8   5.8   5.8   S.8   5.8   5.8        5.8     5.8    5.9            -
Sub-total mainl Vzoduction                64.1  64.1  64.1  622.  62.  62.1    64.1  64.1   62.1               -0.0
By Vzodnats
Fodde: and fcrage                        5.2   5.2   5.2   5.1 . s :    5.1       5.2     5.2    5.1        -0.0
Meat and eggs                            1.71  1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7        1.7     1.7    1.7            -
Manure--Anima                            0.3   0.3  -0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3        0.3     0.3    0.3            -
Sub-total fypduoxats                       7. 2   '.2   7.2   7.0   7.0   7.0       7.2     7.2   -7.0         -O.O
G40os  Value Of Vvfdutj.on                71.3  71.3  71.3  69.1  69.1  69.1    71.3    71.3   69.1            -0.0
Oa-tz  Use
Fcod crops                               0.e   0.9   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8       0.8      0.8    0.8        -0.0
.-cder and forage                        0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2        0.2     0.2    0.2        -0.0
Maiure--Anima                            0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   '.3   0.3        0.3     0.3    0.3            -
Sub-Total On-tat   use                     1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3    .3   1.3        1.3      1.3    1. 3       -0.0
On-Ptam Coenasption
acrd crops                               6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6        6.6     6.6    6.6            -
Cash Crops                               0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8        0.8     0.8    0.8            -
--uait                                   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.3      0.3    0.3            -
Meat and eggs                            1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2        1.2     1.2    1.2            -
Sub-Total On-ftam Cdws=tion                S.i9  8.9   8.9   8 .    8.9   8.9       8.9      8.9    8.9           -
Hot Val*u  Of Izoduction                  61.1  61.1  61.1  58.9  58.9  58.9    61.1    61.1   58.9            -O.0
Otbs Snflev
Other Income                             4.    4.4   4.4   6.4   6.4   6.4        4.4     4.4    6.4          0.5
NnLo4U                                 -65.,  65.5 -65-5  653  65.3  65.3    65.5    65.5   65.3                -
zw1duotion Cost
Seeds                                    1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5        1.5     1.5    1.5         -0.0
Food crops                               0.9   0.9   0.9   1.0   1.0   1.0        0.9     0.9    1.0         0.0
Fe::ilizers and pesticide               12.0  12.0  12.0  11.6  11.6  11.6    12.0    12.0   11.6           -0.0
Manure--Anima                            1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2        1.2      1.2    1.2        -0.0
Other inputs                             4.6   4.6   4.6   4.5   4.5   4.5        4.6     4.6    4.5         -0.0
Young animals                            0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6        0.6     0.6    0.6            -
Sub-ottal Peodnatian Cost                 21.0  21.0  21.0  20.3 707   20.3    21.0    21.0   20.3             -0.O
Tax"s
Agric1 t.re Tax                          0.6   0.6   0.6      -   0.6   0.6       0.6     0.6    0.6         -0.1
OUs1?Ows                                21.6  21.6  21.6  20.3  20.9  20.9    21.6    21.6   20.9            -. o
Cash now DozeS   tinamaiaw                43.9  43.9  43.9  45.1  44.5  44.5    43.9    43.9   44.5             O.o
tam  r dly Snawfits ftom  rinanaia   52.8  52.8  52.8  54.0  53.4  53.4    52.8    52.8   53.4                  0.0
Souzaes of tinance
Transfer from Previous Period           21.0  21.0  21.0  20.3  20.3  20.3    21.0    21.0   20.3           -0.0
Less transfer to Next Period            21.0  21.0  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3    21.0    21.0   20.3           -0.0
Sub-Total So01a4 ef tliam.                   -      -   0 7      -     -     -        -        -      -           -
Cash now ater VinanatgT 43.9  43.9  44.6  45.1  44.5  44.5    43.9  43.9  443.                                  0.0
Residua Val* of
Stansfg  to Net Peried                     -  21.0      -     -      -  20.3        -    21.0   20.3         -0.0
r-m  f-ly 8enafit& After lia          w   52.8  73.8  53.5  T4.0  53.4  73.7    52.8    73.8   73.7               -
Rotuma pers 1wy-Day of LSooa                0.2   0.2   .202                        0.2      0.2    0.2         0.0
'P.R - None, NPV - 6.60
\a Yuanyan Hcst
Wed Dec 22 08:12:57 1993
2-i Household Income for Host in Yuanyang Farm Model



- 139 -
China                                            Table 29
Xiaolanqdi Resettlement Project--HianChi
Household Ihcom for Host In t4ianCtti Farm Model
-                       )
(In MianChi Hundred) /a
Sentefter--October
Without
Project        With Project                 Future  Future Percentage
1 to              2 to  7 to         Present Without With    Change
29    30     1      6    29    30       1      30      30        !
lKa ttie
Food c:ops                             16.I  16.1  16.1  15.1  15.1  15.1    16.1    16.1   15.1           -0.1
Cash crops                              8.8   8.8   8.8   9.8   9.8   9.8       8.8      8.8    9.8         0.1
Heat and eggs                           5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7       5.7      5.7    5.7           -
sib-total )bln la.retn                 7I  30.6 IkONi  30.6  30.6  30.6    30.6    30.6  30. 6                 -
By Ixedueft
Fodder and forage                       2.8   2.8   2.8   2.7   2.7   2.7       2.8      2.8    2.7        -0.1
Meat and eggs                           1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6        1.6     1.6    1.6           -
Manure--Anima                           0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4       0.4      0.4    0.4
SUb-t@tal 3pZo8t*                          4.8   4.8   4.8   4.6   4.6   4.6       4.8     4.S    4.6 -4
* eaa Valu  of pzodut.ion                 3S.4   35.4  35.4  35.3  35-3  35.3    35.4    35.4   35.3            -
Food crops                              2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7       2.7      2.7    2.7           -
Fodder and forage                       0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1      0.1    0.1
Manure--Anima                           0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4       0.4      0.4    0.4
Jub-Tetal On-axm go*                       3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2       3.2     3.2    3.2           -
ft-ram eosmaptlo
Food crops                              9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0   9.0       9.0      9.0    9.0           -
Cash Crops                              0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6       0.6      0.6    0.6           -
Fruit                                   0 6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6       0.6      0.6    0.6           -
X. and eggs                             0.3   .9  00.9   0.9   0.9   0.9        0.9      0.9    0.9           -
Sub-fot%. On-lram  coetio             1 1.   11.1  11.   11.1  1          1.1    11.1    11.1   11.1            -
not v*l-a at laeoatom                    21.1  21.1  21.1  20.9  20.9  20.9    21.1    21.1   20.9           -0.0
other lZsAtom
Other Income                            6.7   6.7   6.7   8.8   8.8   8.8       6.7      6.7    8.8         0.3
lmmwIQ                               _j7_7  =7.1  27   29.7  29.7  29.7    27.7  27.7  29.7                0.1
._ec c4en osut
Seeds                                   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.7   1.7   1.7       1.8      1.8    1.7        -0.1
Seedlinqs                               0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.3      0.3    0.3        -0.1
Fertilizers and pesticide               6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6       6.6      6.6    6.6        -0.0
Other inputs                             3.7   3.7   3.7   3.8   3.8   3.8       3.7     3.7    3.8         0.0
Manure--Anima                            1.1   1.1   1.1   1.0   1.0   1.0       1.1     1.1    1.0        -0.1
Young animals                           0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5       0.5      0.5    0.5           -
Sib-letaL peduatLef Gomt                  14.0  14.0  14.0  13.9   3.9  1      -3.9   i4  14.0   13.9        -0.0
Agriculture Tax                         0.4   0.4   0.4      -   0.4   0.4      0.4      0.4    0.4        -0.0
OMIw&US                                14.5  14.5  14.5  13.9  14.3  14.3    14.5    14.5   14.3           -0.0
Caah 11w Nefeme Ir.amelqm                 13.3  13.3  13.3  15.8  15.4  15.4    13.3    13.3   15.4           0.2
lam rasLly Deamfits Sefcre r1uanLa   24.3  24.3  24.3  26.9  26.5  26.5    24.3    24.3   26.5               0.1
Souzae" of 11nmm.
Transfer from Previous Period          14.0  14.0  14.0  13.9  13.9  13.9    14.0    14.0   13.9           -0.0
Less Transfer to Next Period           14.0  14.0  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9    14.0    14.0   13.9           -0.0
Sub-'otal Sares of WSi=na*e                  -     -   0.2                           -       -      - 
Caab  1evw After nlaamoaL                 13.3  13.3  13.4 14 .0  15.4  15.4    13.3    13.3   15.4           0.2
04814al value of
twnAder to next Pteiod                     -  14.0     -     -      -  13.9        -    14.0   13.9        -0.0
ta1- th y m B aeit  Y"ter winasoia    24.3  38.4  24.5  26.9  26.5  40.4    24.3    38.4   40.4               0.1
*tm   Pa z er 1rA4U-Dow of Lnbor           0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2       0.1     0.2    0.2         0.1
IRR - None, NPV - 16.86
\a MianChi Host
Wed Dec 22 07:43:28 1993
2-1 Household Income for Host in MianChi Farm Model



-140-
China                                               Table  3f)
XKiolangdi Resettlement Project-Shanian
HouJ hold rwCOMe for Most in Shankian Farm Kodel
vnNjL  0mX  os_}m
(In ShbnXian Hundteod) /a
Seotebr--OCtob.r
Wl.thout
Project        With Pro"Mct              Future  Future Percentage
1 to             2 to  7 to        Present Without With   Chane
29    30     t     6   29   30   =I         3       30       t
a roductxon
Food crops                           16.6  16.6  16.6  15.8  15.S  1S.8   16.6   16.6  1S.6          -0.0
4sh Ceops                             9.1  9.1   9.1  9.5  9.5  9.5    9.1    9.1   9.5              0.0
t eat  nd eggs                        5.7               S.?  5.7   5.7 7    S7    5.7   5.7             -
Sub-toul eAA Produactia                31.4   1. A 1,4 31.031.0  31.0    31.4  331.4  31.0             -0.0
By ptoducts
Fodder and forage                     3.2   3.2   3.2  3.1  3.1   3.1    3.2    3.2   3.1           -0.0
Heot and eggs                         1.6   1.6   1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6    1.6    1.6   1.6                -
Manure--Anise                         0.4   0.4   0.4  0.4  0.4   0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4               -
Sub-total  yproducat                    5.2- 52   5.   5.1 S         .1       S.2    5.2   S. 1       -0.0
eros Value of Produatxan               36.5  36.5  36.5  36.1 36.  36.1   36.5   36.5  36.1          --O.0
0n-ats Us.
Food crops                            2.7   2.7   2.7  2.7  2.7   2.'    2.7    2.7   2.'               -
Fodder and forage                     0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1    0.1    0.1   0.1                -
Manure--Anima.                        0.4  0.4   0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4    0.4    0.4   0.4
Sub-Total On-la  U.                 -  3.2   3.2   3. 2   3    3.2  3.2       3,2    3.2   3.2 2
O.-la Consuimptirn
Food crOps                            8.1 -3.1   8.1  6.1  8.1  8.1         8.1    8.1    8.1
Cash Crops                            1.0   1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0                -
Fruit                                 1.0   1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0
Meat and eggs                         1.2   1.2   1.2  1.2  1.2  1.2    1.2    1.2   1. 2
Sub-Total 0.n-lam Consmopt&o           11.3  11.3 1 :.3        13        11.3 J      1-7   11.3           -
let Value Of Dxoduotioa                22.0  22.0  2       .  21.6  21.6  212.    22.0  21.6           -0.0
other fdlow
Other Income                          6.7   6.7   6.7  7.3  7.3   7.3    6.7    6.7   7.3             0.1
Wm.u                                  ie.  28.7  28.7  26.9  28.9  28.9   28.7   28.7  28.9           0.0
Produeotca Cost
Seeds                                 2.1   ?'.   2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1    2.1    2.1   2.1                -
Seedlings                             0.2         0.2  0.0  0.0   0.0    0.2        0.2   0.0       -0.8
Fertilizers and pesticide             6.8         6.8  6.6  6.8   6.6    6.8    6.8   6.8
Other inputs                          3.6  .._6   3.6  3.6  3.6  3.6    3.6    3.6   3.6             -0.0
Menure--Dnia                          1.1   ..1   1.1  1.1   1.1  1.1    1.1    1.1   1.1            -0.1
Young animas                          O.S   0.5   0.S  0.5  0.5  0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5                -
Sub-Total  roaxotao. Cost              14.4  14.4  14.4  14.   1.1  14.1   14.4  14.4  14.1           -0.0
twm
Agriculture Tax                       0.4   0.4   0.4     -   0.4  0.4        _      0. 4   0.4      -0.0
OUMMS                               _14.8  14.8  14.8  14.1 14.S -.S    14.8   14.8  14.5            -0.0
cash now Sefom Finaocing               13.9  13.9  13.9 14.0  14.3  14.3   13.9   13.9  14.3            .0
lam taaiy Uafit. Dbfer fimann   25.2  2S.2  25.2  26.0  25.6  25.6   25.2   25.2  25.6                  0.0
Scoos of Finace
Transfer from Proviou  Period        14.4  14.4  14.4  14.1  14.1  14.1   14.4   14.4  14.1          -0.0
Less Transfer to Nent  Period        14.4  14.4  14.1  14.1  14.1  14.1   14.4    14.4  14.1        -0.0
Sub-Total Sooraes c linoeag               - -   0.3    -         -    -        -       -      -          -
Cash 13.0 Alfter tinsacn               13.9  13.9  14.2  14.  14.3  143    13.9  13.9   14.3            0.0
ASAxduel valoe Of
frusser to Next period                  -  14.4     -    -    -  L4.1         -   14.4  14.1         -0.0
amf   ly Renefitt After inancia    25.2  39.6  25.5 26.0 25.6 3_9.  52    39.6                            -
P3tus pegr tamly-"y of Labor            0.1   0.2  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.2    0.1    0.2    0.2              0.0
IR * Nor.e, HPV - 4.74
%a ShenXian Host
Wed Doc 22 07:37:49 1993
2-1 Household Incom for Hot in ShaWUin Fera  Model



-141-
Table 31
ChIna
X:aolaa5Ct'Resettlement Psoject--YuarQu country
Host meag Nbv-. in Yuanqu   Fa:s Kbdel
(in Yuan Hundred) /a
Wl:hout ~~Seotefte:--October
_Prolect    W_'ith Pronect                    Future  Future Percentage
1 to               2 eo-l-o       - a  Psesent With.OUt  Witb    Change
29    30      1     6    29   -30 -    I        30      30        t
ftw&n Production
=rc =:rs                             11.9  17.9  17.9  14.7  14.7  14.7    1?.9   117.9   14.7            -0.2
_as -<"rS ... ~~~~~~14.5  14.5  14.5  :3.9 :3.9  13.9    24.5   1.4.5   13'9                      -0.0
Yea: ar.: egg;s                          6.5   6.5   e.s   6.5   6.5   6.5        e.s     6.5    6.5            -
Sub-total main Production                 39.0  39.0  i;7.0 -1TS-  35.2  3-5.2    39.0    35.0  3-5.2   ~ -0.1
By Products
Fccre: a-.^ 'c:age                       4.0   4.0   4.0   C.'   4.1   4.1        4.0     4.0    *.1          0.0
M.eat ar.: e;;s                          2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1        2.1     2.1    2.1            -
Manr._e--A-._mal                           . O.S 0 .5 0.5         0.5   0.5 0.    O.5     0.5    0.5            -
O $b-tetal Syl>dicts                         - 6. -T-.7         - e7~ g 6.8  -6.0       6.7  -6.7 '   .e 1          0.0
Gtross value Of frodgctiac    4 5 .          -6 ;'. F    4'.T-79 7r. 9 4T1.S __5.6   _4.S 6 4}1           -0M1
Fcoc c:c;s                               2.3   2.3   2;.3   2.0   2.0   2.0       2.3     2.3    2.0        -0.1
.-c^_e: ar. c 'oage                      0-1    . 0.1 C.: 0.1   Q.1   0.1         0.1     0.i    0.1            -
van_re----.:".al              ~~~~~0.5   0.5   S.S   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5      0.5    0.5      
sub-Total 0Oa-ftau  Us                     3-0   1.0   3.0   2.7   2.7   2.7        3.0   -3.0    2.7T    --0.1-
ftOa-Tr Consumption
--CC ^;:r^s                              6.7  -6.7   f.?   6.7   6.7   6.7        6.7     6.7    6.7            -
cas!_:^r                                 1.0   i.0   :.0   1.0   1.0   L.O        1.0     ;.0    1,.0 
Yleat ar._ e;;s                          1.3   1.3  :..3   :.3   1.3   1.3 __1.3          1.3    1.3            -
Sub-Total On-rame Ckoursuptiou             9.o -9 O  oi - .  3.0-  -9.0 -95~.       9.0      9.0    9.0          --
N*t Value of Pzodootiea                   33.6  1T7   _5.   :0.2  302i 30.2        3.6       36 302 -           01
otber Xnflows
^-t!.e : ._-.;:e                         8.8   S.8   e.e  :5.8  15.8  is.0    Bee         e.8   15.9          o.e
INT&Mw                                  42.4  42.4  *k.-4 =T60  416.0 76.0    42.4    42.4   46.0             0.1
Prodmctioa Cost
Seecs                                    2.3   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.4   2.4        2.3     2.3    2.4          0.1
FcIod c:_-;s                                         -      0.3   0.3   0.3         -       -    0.3-
Se e:_:,n;                               0.      .3   C.;                         0. 3     0. 3     --
Fer:t 2l-e:s and pesticide              1C.6  ;0.6  :C.6  :8.6  10.6  10.C    10.6    10.6   10.6             0.0
.Manuxe--;.-._a'                         1.3   1.3   :.3   1.:   1.1   1.1        1.3      1.3    1.1        -0.2
^:-e: :r;.-_s                           5.0   5.0   5.0   C.3   4.3   4.3        5.0      5.0    4.3        -0.1
Yccr.q ar._=a:s                          0.8   C.8   C.9   G.S   0.8   0.8        C.$     0.8    0.S            -
!ub-Total  Ysodoction Cost        2        0.2 -2-C-   20.27_ 15.5  -1-9.5 20.2 2-0.2   19S                  -O.O
r;::cs::_:  ax                        0.5   0,5   O.S      _   0.4   0.4       0.5     0.5    0.4        -043
=UfLmsg -                  1P T20.7  =0.7 :9Cy  .5 9.   19.9 _IT9                20.7t_f            t9.9     -0.Q
Cash IFlow "to fer   suuL                 21.1  2i. f21. 7  26.4  26.0  2r6.0    21.7      2-1.7 -76-0 - - 0.2
vvx  r8uasLy Benefits 2 eore rY unuqJl  30.1  30.7 -3G0TN  =57 5357.1 -35.1 --30f7    30.7   35.1             0.1
Saezscl O f rMruul
T:ar.'ez ':os. Previous Period          20.2  20.2  2C.2  19.5  19.5  19.5    20.2    20.2   19.S            -0.0
:es3 7:a.s_'e: to Next Per od          _20.2  2C.2  '59.5  '9.5   9S1.            02     2.9.5               -0.0
sub-TotaL Sowrcoas of rYuuna-                           CC           -        -       ---=            --
Ca 'a Flow After rimaJulg                 21 7il7- -2.3 26;4726.0: 26. il. -2S.1   2-3 1 =6. 0.
Ro idw duLvnle of
Swaa2for to Next WoI* o                    -  20.2      -      -     -  19.5        -    20.2   19.S         -0.0
ram 1*saLr Bnfits After razdJyX   30.7  50.9  3,.3  3-5.5  15.1  5z6               30.7  5_0 9   54,            o l
Returns per fmalXy-Dwt f z4lred           0 1   0:       .   -C.1   0.      . _ 01          0.      ..3
:.R7. - >.o.e  ?V -  =3322
Fas r.a.:ea
WeC ~'oC ZZ _ E:21:22 1993
2-1 Kest Near Move in Yuanqu   Frm Model



Chia*
Xiaol&nqdi nosattlement PCPjdCt--W0AM*AqLAn 5UbpI*jw,t
wunw"tan subpcujoct Nwql
W10MMIC WJDW (Aagpxww)
(in yu4a 10001 /a
without Proiect
1         2           3    4 ic-30    1                 2                                                                                     9-          to
""a
Foed crops                       19,565.34 19,565.34 19,565.34 19,60.34  19,566-34  19,56b.34  19,5615-34  19,565.34  22,300.32  25,969-47  10,653-6S  36,111.70  30,06.77  40,623.70
Cash Crops                       12,107.12 12,107.12 12,107.12 12,107.12  12,107.12  12,107.12  12,07.12  )Z,107.12  12,Bng.19  14,06-J.59  15,64S.32  1.7,621. i I  IS.SI6.28  19,613AI
fruit                             6,201.57  6.281.57  6,281.57  6,281.67   6.281.57   6,201.67   6,203.57   6.281.57   4,711.66   3,141.60   2,990.42   4,2$6.4i   9,933.64  18,145.08
N"t asid o"s                      0,300.0   8,300.0   9,100. 09  0 300.09         306.09   8,39O.99   0,300.09   8,300.09   9 093.21  11.406.32  11,079.44  JyJ1.70  14,671.7   14 671.70
sub-Wtal main prechotica           46,254.12 46,254.12 46,2$.4.12 46,n4.12  46,254.12  46.264.13 -4 i, 2V4 71 i  46,254-M  -4;,794-3i -5 4 . CGC-9 i -62, 31 -IN                  _82,2s"AS  91" nIN.
DIF ftoducts
Fodd.9 and forage                 2.017.24  2.817.24  2,017.24  2.017.24   Z,017.24   2.017.24   2,017.24   2,017.24   3,170-31   4,639-37                            (.,462.11   4,,462-13   6.462.13
mat arod "gs                      2,760.44  2,760.44  2,760.49  2,760.44   2,760.44   2,760.44   2,760.44   2,760.44   2,830.04   2,699.64   2,969.24   J,010.80   J,018.90   3,030.00
mhee aMS&I ptcaActo               1 726.60 _ILZ26.60 1  7,26.60  1 726 68   1 726-60   L726.60   3,726.66   1 726 60   1 919 63   2.1 Z-bS   2,30-53   2 490 JP   2 498-17   2 496.11
sub-total IlModucto                                           04.345 7!304:3                  73q                                             9 6!,---                 1
7 304-36  7.304-36  7. 30_    __                              _,) -   370-473i -7,304.16               _, _ I . SO  10,825.?                                999.30
Orams, vaitw Of Production         S)ISS9.49 $3.550.40 63,660.48 S3.6se.40  6),S58.40  63,558.40  $I,TVU  -5 I . i-S i -4 i$0.272.27  64, 35-55  73,197.03  04.662.26  94,254.70 10,352.69
oa-iratw use
food crops                        4,123.97  4.123.97  4,123.97  #.123.97   1,123.97   4,123.97   4,12).97   4,jal.97   4,139.62   4"516.30   4,710.96   4. 9".58   4,906.50   4. 906.50
Fcddec and forage                 1,669.99  1,569.99  1,569.99  1.669.99   1,$69.99   1,569.99   1.5,69.99   I.t)69.99   I.St 1.43   1.06.40   1.400.33   1.343.71   1,341.73   1,143.73
other 4knimal peoducts                                                                                                 574.S7                                           913.69      813.59      013.59
__A74. 67    S74.67    $74.57    574.57          6 4.6               __174.5,7                    634.)3      694.09      763.05
6.26     7.                      6.268.S2   6.268.52   6,2".52
sk*-Total CA-Wasum UN*                   S.S.-   260.52  C,_2"62 -                                          '241i -6, 56r5_2 - 6,467.39   6,6".27   6,066.16   7,SU-8i _T -063. F   -1. F6_302
CA-vats Conemption
fow  ecops                       10,274.19 10,274.19 10.274.19 10.274.19  10,274.19  10,274.19  10,274.19  10.274.19  10,Z74.19  10,274.19  10,274.19  10,274.39  10,274.19' lo,,??#.19
Cash Ceops                        i,256.97  1,2S6.97  1,256.97  1,256.97   1,256.97   1.254.97   1.256.97   1.266.97   1,266.97   I.M.97   1,2$6.97   1,2!.6.97   1,21.6.97   1,256.97
Fruit                               403.01    40).81    403.81    403.81          403.01      403.91       403.83      401.93      403.81      403.01      403.81      403.Bi       601.81      403.91
Mat 4ind *"I                                 1,721.02  1 721 02  2 721 02   1 7ZA 02   1 723.02   1                   .7Z3.02                                                     1,721. ?   1,721.
_ZA.Lmz.:=   .   .                          - __, 72). 02                3.7,21.0    1,723.0    1,221-02   3,723.02
Sub-Tat"  an-Iram  consawtion   itm                       13 666.9  13,666. 9  13 '656.99  13.6 6.99  1 3JL"                    13_666.99  13,656.92  13,666.9   13,4666.99  jIjGSS.SS  13,"S.09
ftt valva Of ftodkwtAOD            13.633.97 33,633.97 33,633.97 33,633.97  33,633.97  33,633.97  33,613.97  33, 1 .9   3 S. i VS . 0-9                   52,05.90  0,9U_135 _73,0-4.9i  0 4 , TI 3-"
Purchased coopowti-                                                                                                                                                                                  I
food ceops                        1.321.07  1,321.47  1,321.87  1,321.07   1.321.07   1,321.07   1,321.97   1.321.07               991.73      661.60      331.43            -           -           -
Cosh Ccops                                -                                                                                            39      628 19      942.57   1.256.91   1.256-97   %.256.9'1
rcuit                                     -                                                                                        '1.'o':97   201:93      201M        201.09       100.91
Sub-To"I paw"amod comoupkpuob  2,321.81  I.M.0-1                     -f,-32107 _T, 321- 07   1,321.07   1,321.07 _T7 3-21-87   1. 40F.'re -T.-49109 -1,475.9i   1.468.   -T, =67.0i   11266.97
Other Thelove
othor Incess                      6 071.41  6,071.41  6 SjL.JI  6,871.43   S.871.Al   6,971.41   S 871 41   6 871 43   7 040.63   0,209.6    9,37   1  11.111:,12  10,S47.3                     S41.32
"M, ;                                                                                                             -YK-5,2;) 43, 702.54  $0,714.09  60 6,::7 5                2  82.724.33  93.923.43
390103.St 30,183.51 37elS3.51 30,103.61  3S.M.51  38.103.51  380183:51                                                        7   7l,0,0
ftvdwUm Cost
so"ljngs                                -          -          -          -                        -           -           -      260.36      250.30      260.30      MAS
opme"
Seods                             709.93    709.93    709.93    709.93          709.93      709.93      709.93      709.93   1,027.SG   1,10.19   1.662.82   1, "O. so   1,900.50   11900.60
Faw cgqw
sawlings                          240.62    249.62    240.62    249.62          248.62      240.62      249.62      240.62       1$6.46      324.30       62.14            -           -           -
F*gtiliterm god pesticift       3,749.73  3,740.73  3,749.73  3,749.73   3,749.73   3,749.73   3,749.71   3,71t.73   4.224.70   4.726.76   6,252."    5,700.19   6,812.37   6,068.46
Othat 1kniest products            472.78    472.79    472.79    472.78          472.70      472.78      4`72.78      472.78      701.51      930.23   IIIS8.96   1.387.88   1,387.89   1,307,88
Othat immtx                     5.273.49  6,273.49  5,273.49  S,273.49   6,273.49   S,273.49   5,271.49   5,273.49   6.843.12   8,412.76   9,902AG  11,SA2.47  11,63Z.04  11,52t.60
Young onisals                     Sol.%$    692.19    591.16    601.18          581.19      681.1       Sel.ke      so           667.61      754.1       040.65      921.10      927.10       927.10
sub-to"l opalratiag costs                   11.025.74             11.03S.74                11.035.74  11-1035.71 _l a        _,13661.0)  16,292.40                                         21,67%.Gi
71,0       fl-.035-74 11.035.74 11.035.74                 11,035.74        i-74    I                                                                      _T17-6-15.12
tub-To"t ftadmtion Cost            I .70, 33 _115A, 14                                                   11,03        1           13,901.40  16.542.77                21,060.70  21.659.96
aume Costs
COSL (Or U"t PtOdUCtIOP          28 400.00 23,080.0  16,100.0              -   2 410.06  $0,160. 0  SSl  .00  70,701.06  66,301.00                      20,311.00      %70.00            -           -
autFLON                          2zg 435.74 34,035-74 27 135.'?l Ts. -035714               61,195.74  66 135.74  St 736 01  70,282.48 +5_21+            39                     -Ff. _"9S6 -Ff, 675- 62
_4:ZA-=_'                           ___,521.30                      Y            '81
coo  ncm                            8 747.77  S 147 77 11 047 '77 27AJ47J                   75-.012.23 727=$-9L6;L=2-:'2=3 -43,563.3  -26 499 93   5,430.23  21J7    _50,_79L. 22 AK  i,  72147.
17,'803:7  '2;,;;ti6 40,903.76  29,333.16  -9.356.24 -1-4,296.24 -29,897.32 -12,'843:9   19,066.22  34.,11  it
Pat ranac"a asmfsts                                                                                                                                                               ?4,120.16  85,903.80
109 - 16.01, OM - $7,662.96
ant od Rdacilgee froo Xiago and JAYU" C40mtY SA WOR41440611
sat Xcpw 27 MOMS 1993
2-1 MacwAmgton Subptoject hu"l



China
tioatang" Rosottloomt Ptoj6ct--WamseAqt&n Subproloct
Wonmewan Subproject uo"l
toomobac WJD=t (AGG02MM
(10 YIA*D '0001 14
-SeiXember--Octabst
lckcreamto
to-30                                   3            4   :z:=S                6            7           8            9
Production
Fund 4crops                         41,396.49  41,396.49  43.3%.49                                                                         4.404.14  U."O.32  16,649.36  19,270.43  21.056.34  21.01.16
Cssh Crop                           20,01.60  24.01t."   20,011.64                                                              '192.07   1,962.47   3.$41.20   5.514.01   6,70#.16   7,505,29   7,904.40
fruit                               26,529.11  11,216.13  34,064.94                                                          -1,669.94  -3,130.97  -3,291.16  -2,026.1$   1,660.00  12,163.61  I9,2S8.I#
Mat and *M                          14 671.70  It 671.70  If 671.70                                                            I 6 91 "A   1,186.2    1.171:711   1.111.61   6,371.61   6 371 61   6,371.61
'3340.19   8,412.07  1                                           T.'099:4   65. 36S. 39
Sub-tatsl iftin frod"atton           101,619.61 107,296.93 110.134.74                                                                                             2      400-03  36,001.20  4
ay ftoducto
fodder and forag.                    6,462.13   6.462.13   6.162.13                                                              911.06   1,822.12   2,733.19   3,644.S9   3,644.09   3,694.09   3,644.49
Hoot and "so                         3,039.00   3.030.04   3, 031J. 00                                                            69.60       139.20      208.00       270.36      278.)6       270.36       2118.36
othot anisal praducts                2 499.37   2                                                                                k92.95,      306.90      S70.9s       771.70      771.70       771.70       771.70
sub-total onwodmto                                 11.9         11,999.1                                                         1 173.61                              #.694.94               -r-69-49,
ago"  Value Of ftodaction            113,610.01 119,29S.23 122,334.04                                                            4,713.7                ifMIWA                                   '7":41
10.7".09                 31.103.77  40.696.Zl  51,             60,060.31
on-face Use
F&W cro"                             4.906.50   4.90$.SO   4.906.50                                                       -      195.67      391.33       $87.00       782.54      702.54       702.54       702.64
Fodder and forego                    3,343.73   1,343.73   1.343.73                                                       -      -56.66    -113.11    -169.66    -226.26    -226.26    -226.26    -226.26
Other animal ptoducto                  MAO          813.69       813.59                                                   -       S9.76       119A        119.2        239.0       239.02       229.02
Bob-ToW  On-ram Use                    7.463.02 --Y.-*63.02 --f,-063.62                                                       -198.00   197.7$   $96.63   795.30 7-96.30 796.35  1,96 11'
on-ram co"uvvtian
Food crops                          10.274.19  10,274.19  101, 274.19                                                                              -            -           -            -            -           -
Cash Crops                           I,ZS6.97   1.266.97   1.256.97
fruit                                  40.81        403.61       403.01
Hoot and eggs                        1,721.02   1 721.0-2   1 721.02
sub-TatsI, OA-rom Comemptitce
11at Val"  or fto"taon                92.899.01  98,575.43  O    ::,I                                                       - --f.614-92  10,162.34  19.041.9            300.49  39.900.92  $0,099.11   9 -29.0-4
Purchased Conouniption                                                                                                                                                                                       t
fund crop$                                   -            -                                                               .    -330.16    -66O. 30    -990.44  -1,321.07  -1.321.07  -1.321.07  -1021 97
Cssb Cror                            t.256.97   1.256.97   i.256.97                                                       -      314.12      62S.38       $42.61   1,256.97   1,256.97   11266.91   )IM:07
fruit                                                                                                                    -       100.91      201.93       261.93      201-08
Sakfatsl gurchaftd ConstoptUo -M2R.91 -T.-256.97  1,2S6.01                                                                                             -I 64.           M.9 -    16:11   -44.0    -66.4
atuar leflaws,
othot Income                        10.S47.32  Ig.  1:11  10'.,1101 12                                                        I tG9.13   2 319 2S   3 bO7.38   4.67S.91    .514751::l   1,
102,180.36           70                                                               -   i*SWU   12,   .60   2i;5.25, 34,047.41  4:                 3            3   Kiosm
ftoanuen Ctot
saveatmat
S*.dIIqq#                                                                                                              -      260.10       240.36       260.30      260.48             -
Opecauag
Seeds                              1,980.68   1,960.SS   1,960.w                                                       -      317.63       636.26       952.80   1.270.65   1,270.45   1,274.66   t.278.6f
focd GrOP
Seedlings                                                                                                              -      42.16    124.32    -106AD    -248.62    -218.62    -248.62    -2 0.62
F*rtilisovs and pesticide          S,GSS.46   S.GS0.46   S.050.46                -                                     -      '74.91       976.02   1,503.16   2,036.07   2. 0112. 64   21009.73   ". 1:0.73
otbec animal products              1,307.0S   1.187.00   1.387.0a                -                                     -      228.72       461.4s       W. 17       916.14       916.10      M.10         915.10
othet laputs                      11,611.37  11,S11.27  11,511.17                -                                     -   I.S69.64   3,139.27   4.708.91   6,2".96   6.2%S.SS   6,2411.11   O.217.68
Young animals                        927.10       927.10       927.10            -                                             86.49       172,         2SO.17      346.91       34S.91       346.91      246.01
sub-total or"ratiag, cmts                                         65.30            -                                          2,615.29                 7 924 It  ii.60.4   10 624.23  ra. 63-9. 99  10,629AS
2,81S-677   S, ii-784   8,'174:4   10,032.97                  WoO39:19  90,629.45,
21                                                                             256.66
i- :::                                                                                                                   smn
Sub-total Production Coat             21,665.1i  21.66S.I   2 1, GFS-l a                                                                                                          10
other costa
Cost for Rost Production                                                 -15,930.00  27,160.0   39,000.00 :7O 101.08  $6,161.0   2e.141.0  2-0 311.08                .110.00
eurfLon                                        -it 6-66 I a  21.66S.10 -16.930.00 27  160.00  is 000.00              .0:  SO 246.74  3#,248.11  20 485 S?  IF202.97                        14.639.09  10 629.45
_ZZA
Coob now                                           86!200:Gi  89 639-41  IS,930.00 -2-1,160.0  jj:j"             =70 701.00 75'i.M.71 -21 '117 54  TO90:32                                    I5 I00.04  S3 216 40
16,9TO-.00 -27,160.00 -39.000.00 -70,701.01 :-tM -1171 ' 71-1:54               000- 32  23,61
Mt r4opow"  somfity                   94,180.16  99,656.50                                                                                  21,                            4.46  33,916.60   5  00.04  63,M161i
19.



Xieolongdi Nevottl_ent Iro]jct--wonmetan Subproject
WIo.rtan  Supt.oiect MIdel
(In Y*n 'OOOI /-
12      13 to3
14his 9_qti"
food crap                      21,032.16  21.811.16
Cash Cc"p                       7,904.46   7,904.49
fruit                          24,934.17  21.773.36
heat end e"gs                  6.71.61   6. l.61
s-tat"   M  ftodawtls'           61,041.6  063,0.62
Fcdder and forage               3,S441.9   3,644.6
eret cad es                       276.36     276.36
Other animal pLbodcte         7 1.70         771 70
Subtot4l, 11 r  ed6Wate                      4.694 .94
Gins vaol e 01  odest"os          1,736.7   685,75.57
food crps                         752.54     72.514
frdder and forage                -226.26    -226.26
Ot, or animal proeacts            2      39.02
s-tlo     lbtm De                   7t6 9530   795.30
on-fra Csnestim,
Ford crose,                                       _
Clsh Cops                              -           -
ftrit                                  -          -
Het eWd egpg
f.TOcl 01-n  c           _acmmtl         -7
we% Vablu  Of hodt*.Oa           64,941.46  67,7630.27
raabsd C_mnption
Feed ce      t   -l,521.7  -1.321.0l
Cash Ccas                       1,256.97   1,256.97
Fruit
b*-fot"  _xed   Ce_scupl            -64.90     -64 .30
Oset Ius
Other Incame                    4.675.91.):  l 4. 91
2 69,662.27  72,521.06
Seedlings                            -          -
Seds                          1,270.61   1,270.65
food crp                             -          -
Sedlings                       -246.62    -246.62
fstutlisxee and pgetielde     2,106.7)   2,106.73
Other cnimal products           91S.10     911.10
othe  inpats                  6,237.66   6,237.66
?T13  SniMls                   141.9e     245.91
e     e- a  oret t   Coo.      :.629.1   0629.45
ub-?Tetal. 99endio CoD           10,6,9.6.  10,629.61
01cr Coots
Co*t for "St Production                -          -
eUMMS                          10,629.4S  10,629.45
b nm                             59,0 .2   61,6
2-I ong    .ubpro)e.1  .odeM
2-3 Wngntan  Subproj*vt Plde



China
Xiaolangdl Resettlemnt Pcoject--Houbo Subproject
Uouhe Subproiect Su4roject Model
(la Yuan) la
Without
Pr tc                                                                                            itht Proiec
1to 30        1           2          3           4           5          6           7          a           9          10          It         12          13
ftu h9odmotle
Food crops                   20,404,756 20.4S4,756 28,484,756 26,464,758 2S,484,758 32,369,866 32,067,246 31,412,637 31,006,967 30,263,637 30,410,514 30,50e,431 30,557,390 30,557,390
Cash Crops                   16,572,385 16,572,365 16,572,365 16,572,385 16,572,305 16,016,563 10,632.806 19,120,359 19,245,068 19,154,520 19,066,466 18,903,767 10,606,638 18,606,636
rtsit                         190,416.0  190,416.0  190,416.0  190,416.0  190,416.0  190,416.0  196,362.0  202,314.0  1,768,719  4,657,063  0,961,246 14,747,200 19,672,949 23,997,839
Most and eggs                 7,1944776  719476 76        41796  7                   6 4 776  71194 776  7 4776  7,196737 s   198,699    200661    202623    202623  7202623 72202623  7 202262
vb-totul ""am hoduattem       52,442,335 52,442,335 52,442,335 52,442,335 52,442,335 57,771,623 57',893,151 S:7,934,009 59.'222,2 35 61.277',66  65,662',648 71',362,101 76. I19,6O00 60444,490
rodder and (ora"e             2.603,500  2,603,500  2,603,500  2,603,500  2,603,500  2,611,726  2,665,109  2,740,500  2,630,046  2,765,376  2,814,423  2,841,317  2,646,055  2,046,055
eat and eggs                  2,317,723  2,317,723  2,317,723  2,317,723  2,317,723  2,317,723  2,142,217  1,966,534  1,790,651  1,615,167  1,615,167  1,615,167  1,615,167  1,615,167
Manure--Animal                401,619.4  461,619.4  481,619.4  461,619.4  481,619.4  481,619.4  481,302.2  480,984.0  480,667.4  480,349.9  460,349.9  480,349.9  480,349.9  400,349.9
Other animal products         914,056.3  914,058.3  914,05.3  914,05e.3  914,058.3  914,08.3  916,217  9,373.3  920,5319  922,690.5  922,6905  922,690.5  922,690.5  922,690.5
Mb-tota1 Ippuduotn              6,316.901  6 9016 90      16      6316,901  6316.901  6.325,129  6,204,843  6,106.392  6.030,096  s5,7s3,s4  5,632,631  s5,es 5W664,263  5.864.
kes Value, 0f Pradatlep        56,759,236  5,759,236 56,759,236 58,759,236 56,759,236 64,096,7s2 64,097,995 64,040,402 65,2S2.331 67,061,447 71,495,480 71,21,626 81I9'3.864 86,306,75
m-ta vs
Froo crops                    3,673,030  3,673,030  3,673,030  3,673,030  3,673,030  3,673,030  3,558,267  3,443,301  3,328,508  3,213,626  3,213,620  3,213,626  3,213,620  S,213,620
Foddet  and forage            1,632,594  1,632,594  1,632,594  1,632,594  1,632,594  1,414,373  1,342,646  1,271,545  1,200,543  1,140,51a  1,154,400  1,168,142  1,181,504  1,161,304
Manure--Animal                463,619.4  481,169.4  40l,619.4  461,619.4  48,1619.4  481,619.4  461,302.2  480,984.0  4800667.4  400 349 9  480 349.9  460 349.9  460,34;.9  460,349.9
hmb-tOtae os-1a   Pae           5,767,244  s,761,244  5,7;7,244  5,767,244  5,767,244  5,569,022  5,382,415  5,195,917  5,009,719  4,834,497  4,046,459  4,662,120  4,075.402  ,075-,482
:m-a- Com_to
Food croPs                   10,274,986 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,986 10,274.966 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,966 10,274,906
Cash Crops                    505,227.2  565,227.2  565,227.2  565,227.2  565,227.2  585,227.2  565.227,2  b85,22V.2  505,227.2  505,227.2  58s,227.2  565,227.2  505,227.2  385,227.2
Meat and fg s                 3,221,71 7  1,221,767  1.221,767  1,221,787  1,221,77  1.221,787  1,221,767 83l.'87  1,22176   1,2277  1,221,767 11222,767  1,222,767  1 2212707
1mb-totaOs-fts f oneuption 12.,062,000 12s 082,000 T2.002.000 12,082,000 12 002,000 12,062,000 12,082,000 12,082,000  120082.000 12,62,00 12062.00  1 12,082,000  1202000000
ret nWal  0f tgodsutlos        40,889,992 40,689,992 4,0,89,992 40,889,992 40,689,992 46,445,729 46,633,579 46,762,484 48,160,612 50,144,950 54,565,021 60,217,505 65,026,361 69,3itiio
Mat and eggs                               21,16,.0   21,160.0   21,166.6                21,166.0               21,160.6                           21,1666.    2,6. 216  21,66 26.   21,2168.
Othet Inco                    6 042,372  6,042.372  6.042.372  6.042.372  6,042,372  6042372  7,311744             2391  9 63 00 11,123,700   11 2 632 fO23, 7 6 o3 11,123,703 11,12370  11,123,703
46,1t1,196 46,911,196 46,911.196 46,911,1tg96 46,911,196 52.466,933  S3,924,135 55, 323,713 11      9  61,24,484    66754 71,380,39 76,126 1  80,453,04
hMdetooM Cost
zuweetuast
Seedings                                                               -           -          -  166,407.1  186,595.2  106,595.2  106,S93.2             -          -
Seeds                       1,654,169  1,654,18    1,654,189  1,654,189  1,604,169  1,359,353  1,331,600  1,304,219  1,276,639  1,22t,944  1,194,003  1,167,662  1,140,521  1,140,S21
Food Crops                                     -L           -                                                                                                                   
Seedlings                   145,579.9  145,579.9  145,579.9  145,579.9  145,579.9   51,602.7   38,711.6   25,807.9   12,903.9               -           -          _           _ -
FS  tilizets and pesticide  7,020,022  7,020,022  7,020,022  7,020,022  7,020,022  7,57S,392  7,569,072  7,627,141  7,774,525  7,956,230  0,206,690  8,446,464  8.394,949  6,109,167
Manure--Antmal              496,03.6  496,056.6  496,056.6  496,056.6  496,056.6  419,007.9  401,619.0  384,212.6  366,006.1  342,621.3  335,836.0  329,050.7  322,265.4  322,265.4
Othet inputs                6,301,305  6,381,305  6,381,305  6,361,305  6,381,305  9,106,679  9,146,125  9,185,611  9,225,097  9,25S,545  9,246,498  9,237,451  9,226,404  9,228,404
young animals               763,019.0  763.019.0  763,019.0  763,019.0  763,019.0  763,019.0  760.224,4  757,427.0  754,629.5  751,832.1  751,432.1  751,032.1 75,82.1                032
*-toe    0pegt0aq Costs   16 460.172 16,460,172 16,460,172 16,460,172 1f.6,460,172 19,275S053 19,247,552 i9-24,4l9 19,410.60019,520,172 19,737,659 19,932,4 9 20,037,971              52.09
lb-tota  fte           c"t t460,1ta 16,460,172 16,6,46072 1    12  6460,172 16,460,172 19,275,053 19,433,960 19,471,014 19,S97,195 19,714,767 19,737,659 19,932,459 20,037,971 20,152,109
Ktum Coost
Other Cost                             -  322,000.0  S 761,000 16,850,000 14,964,000 18,922,000  6,610,000  ,610,0o0  6,610,000               -           -          -            _       _
an                      "6 *607172 16.782,172 22,22172 33,310,172 31,424.172 36,197,053 26.043.960 26,02-1,04 26,207,193 19.714,767 19.737,659 163932,459  20.037 971 20a152.209
:00b                            045        30,129,024 24 690,024 13,601,024 15,487.024 14,269,879  27,880.195 29,242,699 31,785.296 4532,711 45,929,095 5144579 56.090944 6i0I 6135
let toome  S...*tt.            42,533,024 42,211,024 36,772,024 25,683,024 27,569,024 26,3S1,880 39,962,196 41,324,699 43,667,298 53,614,717 56,011,896 63,529,560 68,172,945 72,303,615
* - 19.99, IfFV - 47,046,742.76
in Yuao4u county
Roy 27 20s40:14 1993
2. 
2-1 lloube Subproject Subproject Model



China
Xiaolangdi Resettleuent Project--Houhe Subproject
Hoube Subproject Subproject Model
300NNC  a    000RORMTW)
(In Yuan) /a
Septezber--October
14         15ts    16 to 30         1             2              3             4              5             6             1              0
Food crops                   30,551,390 30,557,390 30,557,390              -              -             -              -     3,665,110    -602,621.3    -454,609.2    -405,650.4
Cash Crops                   18,666,638 16,686,638 18,686,63-                     -       -             -              -     1,444,170     616,243.1      401,553.0     125,509.0
Futit                        26,831,583 28,323,455 29,044,391                             -                            -             -       5,946.0        5,952.0     1,566,405
Meat and eggs                 1,202,623  1.202 623  1 202,623            _ -                                 _ _ _                            1,960.2       1.9624 1       ,962.2
mb-totW  NaS  ftSodmqll        83,326,234 94,710,106 65.491,42               -              -             -              -     5,329,280      121,520.1      40,058.0     1,2060226
89' he@s
Fodder and forage             2,846,055  2,846,055  2,646,055              -              -             _              _       8,227.7      53,381.1       75,391.0      91,545.3
meat and eggs                 1.615,167  1,615,161  1,615,167               -             _             _                            -    -175,506.1    -175,603.2    -175,683.2
Hanure--Animal                460,348.9  480,349.9  400,349.9               -             -             -              -             -         -317.1        -317.4        -311.4
Other animal products         922,690.5  9222605 690.5 922                                - _--                                               2156.4        2,158.6       27150.6
3*b-total Sypzodut.t            5.6,6   5.864.23  .263        63----                                                             8227. 7      "-12025.1                   -76,296.1
zeas V%e1  of ftodetiem        99,192,491 90,634,369 91,355,305               -             _             _              _     5,337,51S        1,242.9     -51,503.1     1,211,929
Oft-ftai Vs.
food crops                    3,213,620  3,213,620  3,213,628              -              -             -             -              -    -114,163.6    -114,819.4   -114,819.4
Fodder and forage             1,181,504  1,169,504  1,101,504              -              -             _             _    -218,221.5      -71,526.6    -71,301.4       -73,001.3
Manuge--Animal                460,349.9  4600,349.9  460,349.9             --                                          -                      -311.1        -317.4         -311.4
Sb-Total. g- am     e           4,0154,2  4,615,462  4,675,402               -                                           -    -210,221.5    -186.6013   -186,496.3    -106,198.2
os-ra cemuta
rood crops                   10,274,986 10,274.906 10,214,996
Cash Crops                    595,227.2  565,227.2  585,227.2              -              -             -              _             _             _              _             _,
Nfat and eggs                 1,221,787  1.221.781  1.221.701
3mb-fetal Ga-lam C_aiptlaff 1S2,0*2.000 12,082,000 12.082,000                -              -             -              -             - _  _
Mt Vas. 0@  et                 72,235,014 13,61t6,68  74,391,822              -             -             _              -     5,555,131     161,850.3      128,905.2     1,398,127
fesebamed CemsoptSm                                                                                                                                                                   I I
mat and eggs                   21,160.6   21,168.6   21,160.8
Other Income                 11,123,703 11,123.703 it, 123,103             -----                                                           1,269,372      :127_0,563    1 2701 653
trI                          83,337,548 84,779,420 85,500,356                             -             -                -_S ,555,131      1,457,222     1,399,558      2,66870
Wuot  ,Coat
Seedl ihga                          -          -           -             -              -             -             -              -     16,407.1          196.1              -
Seado                       1,140,521  1,140,521  1,140,521              -              _             _             _    -294,836.1    -27,552.8    -27,580.6    -27,580.6
Food egops                          -          -           -             _             _              _             -              _
Sedlinsq                                                                                                                  - -  -  -    -  -  93,9t7.1  -12,690.9    -12,903.9    -12,903.9
Fertili:ers and pesticide  0,759,926  8,756,926  6,156,926               -             -              _             -     555,370.3       -6,319.0      56,069.0     141,383.5
Manure--Auluml              322,265.4  322,265.4  322,265.4              -              _             _             _      -77,040.7     -17,300.9    -11,406.4       -17,406.4
Other inputs                9,226,404  9,220,404  9,220,404              -              _             -             -     2,725,373       39,446.1      39,405.9       39,485.9
young anImkals              151,032.1  751,032.1  I51,032.1              -                            ---                                 -2146         -2.791.4       -2,797.
sob-toa  Oesatlg Cests   203201,9ie 20.201.940 20i201948                      -      --                  -          -       2,014,662 -i1,500.9           i6;066 5 _1261t7.0
St&-"etal Pgedutt   Cost       20,201,948 20,201,940 20,201,948              -              - 0                         -     2,814,602      150,906.2      31,054.6      126,101.0
Otle Cents
Other Cost                            -          -           -     322,000.0     5.439,000    11,089.000  -1,986,000.0       3,958,000 -122312,000.0             -
00o nT 20,201,946 20,201.949 20,201.948                            322,000.0     5,439,000    31,089,000  -1,86,0000        6 1172 862 -12 153,093.9      32a054.6        126a11.0
Cub VieW                       63,135,600 64,577,472 6s,29e40o   -322,0Q0.0  -5,439.000.0 -11.089.000.4.,!6000   T?217i4it                  13.610 316-1. 362.503         2.542.599
Net 3eeme U lita            2      i1t,600 16,659,412 77,300,400  ~  ---322,000.0--5,439,000.0 -11,089,000.0    1,886,000  -1,217,144.      13,610,316     1,362,503      2.542,599
2-2 Hoube Subproject Subproject model



XI*lIAngdI R88ttl_mnt Pro3 Ct--VA*glin County
34atv  Back to "t39k Subpcolect Subproject Model
(In vuean Ia
without
34::th Proj*ct
lto30       Ito            4 *          S           6           7            B           9           10          11          12           13          14          35          16
i eal o ,p                44.33S260  43,350,541  43,150,541  44,335,268  44,819,601  44,942.431  45,320.561  45.323,006  45,353,343  45,367,436  4S,367,416  45,367.436  45,367.436  45.367,436  4S.1B9,*67
Cesh Crops                   1S,675s21B  15,301.139  15.301,139  15.675,210  20.466,706  2B,510.539  26,591,002  28,180,723  28.172,300  28,161,689  2b 150,642  28,150,642  20,150,642  28,1I0,682  28,094,440
fouit                        IS 10,93,48   18611o002  18,611.002  16,933.405  10.885.042  10,836.598  18,816.590  21.426,467  22,313,006  25,980,216  29,676,659  29.878,085  30,056,952  30,146.386  30,097,942
Most  *n4 099          6n 910.697   6.78,8525   6.798.525   6 910 697   7 56 6266   75 62.762   7.625S  22   7.641.618   7 611    7,641.618 s               641 610   7 641.618   7 641 618   7 641.610   716,754
lb-tta3l Main ftroattam       85.914,669  63,861,207  83,861.207  05.914.669  99,757.615  99.'812.330 100',381.284 102.571,834 1031,540,267 107,150.959 110.8)6.554 11,037,78 %;11.'216!6471 131,306,083 130.897.611
fodder and foreq              1.319,724   1,28S5,#91          53   1,31,24   1.374,280    ,378,330   1,309.808   1.382,412   1,303,092- 1,303,300   1.383,097   1.383,*1,0. .097  1i,83,097   1,378,026
Meat and *ggs,                3.132,790   3,055.420   3,055,420   3,132,798   3,274,011   3,299,856   3.3)6,525   3.361,570   3,361,570   3,361,570   3,361,570   3,361,570   3,361.570   3,361,570   3.,49,947
Oth t anlial products         939.735.8   816505.a   916 sos.#   939 71S.8   1.030.139    , 0135.4   1,045.216   I.05.031   I 051 033  11,053.01    1.051.013   I .OSI,OII  3,OSI011   1.0SI.011   t.04e7624
r-total ftp8     t            S,3s2 23e  s5.s787a8   5.257.878   5392236   5.679.230 -  s            1.7 20   S773 549   5 794s993   519S674   5 7956e )   .795.679   5.795,67    579.6        S.79S.679  S.775s
me. Vale O  t    en           93,306,907  89.1t9.085 09.119,085  951306.907 105,436,845  S05,586.458 106,152,833 108.366,828 109, 35,940 712,946840 136,632.233 136.833.459 117.0126 317,103,759 116,771.1t6
a-far Use
Food crops                    8,442,424   8.233.902   8,233,N2'  8,442,424   8,818,425   8,8)5.047   8,882,993   8.899,614   8,906,164   8,906,664   8.906,464   8,906.466   8,906.46t  8,906,46    80.675.140
fddftor ad (oige               70,487.9   68,746.9    68,146.9    70,487.9    78,S60.9    79,031.5    79,873.5    80,454.1    80,454.1   60,654.1   80,454.1   80,4S4.1   80,454.1    80,454.1    08,192.s
Other elin'l products         422 779.    412 337 4   412.337.,                                          3 436.247.1   4,31042  440 405.1 -40,4  440I485.1   440.40S.1   440i405.1 t40 01   4402401 3i3 i
*.!.tsl ou-f.srn Ibe  0~935,69    8,734,986   0,734,906   8,935,62   9.333,123   93.89   9,0,00   9,42'0,474   9,4271,323   94733 9,427.323   9.427.123  9.427,32    9.427-,323   93.69
I-fasom Camoumptson
Fond crops                   113,55313  13,216,604  13,216,604  13.551,313  13,551,313  13,551,313  13,601,593  13,601,593  13,601,593  13.601,593  13,601.593  133601,593  13,601,593  13,601,593  13,551,313
Cash cops                     4,298.092   4,191,932   4,191,932   4.290.092   4,298,092   #.290,092   4.314.039   4,314,039   4,314,039   4.314,039   4,314,039   4,J14,039   4.334,019   4,314,019   4,298,092
meat and amg                  3.118.269   3.041.249   3.041 249   3.33s.269   3.ISO 268   3.118.26   -3.Z20128.39   31988 3.129.839   3 128.839 ~31 29=4=30   3.129.839   3.32I9.8&39  -.1)8.819   3.118.269
js-Tqtu  ft4f=eu  wamptia 296  61   20.449.7852.4985           5 097.7 209764 096642.4.71 1                                     231* oj5!i  230 473 1.447    10S7   20543  21.045.471 20.967.671
3* Vale. Of Pr~~txm.  61,403,541  '59,95,33954,   54 I$ ,31    143537,3,487,6,8057494   790837,6,4    2.474,046  86,159.439, 86,360,665  06.539,532  86,628,96  86,411,264
xtoteo*d CmO-mptiu4                                                                                                                                                                                      ,             I
Cash Ceaps                    1,8368652   1,799,680   1,799,880   1,836,652   $45,499.4   539,975.5   539,975.5   958,090.9   950,229.0  958,367.1   9s8,50s.2  9S58,s0.2   95S,585.2   9SB,505,2  952.981.
Uwr tlinees                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
Other lacome,                 I.056.026   1.029.943   1.029.943   1.056.026   1.412.22    1.408.310   1.408.310   1.404.392   1 2404 392   SAO04, 92 -j,404.)O        1.404.392   1.404.392    .0.8         .0g7
m3tfs                        60,622,916  59,384,377  59,184,377  6086220916  76,002,776  76,135 S922  76,573,'280  7,34,04  79,309,   0 82,920,071                      0               3   80 ;12  8 87
rtd .eo Coat
Soodlings                           ,           _           _            -   206,928.0     5,260.6      5,260.8     5,260.8                                                             , -
0p8w6W.q                                                                                                                                                                                                            -43
seed.                       3.948,26s   1,905,899   1,905,699   1,948,265   2.460,636   2,462,233   2,470.184   2.413,572   2,412,092   2,410,613   2,409,133   2,809,113   2,409,133   2,409,133   2,402,769
food crep                           -           .            -           -    19,027.1    31,204.e8    43,382.5    55,560.G    48,710.8    48,710.8    48,710.8    48,710.8    48,710.0    48,7130.8      8,710.8 I
Sedlings                    608.620.6   590,740.8   590,740.8   604,620.6   645,622.5   645.354.6   646,871.8   646,504.0   646,504.0   646,604.0   646,504.0   646,504.0   646,504.0   646,504.0   644.410.9
F.t333rs and pesticide 17,676,9s6  17,267,664  17.267,664  17,676,956  39,897,980  19,979,743  20,325,292  20,135,742  20,270,047  20,43t,204  20.438,809  20.446,041  20,449,986  20,449,988  20 38, 505
Other *anima  products      699,48e.s   680.,76.8   680,736.8   699,485.0   843,416.4   842,218.7   843,840.4   832,296.3   032,033.3   031,770.2   831,507.2  081,507.2   831,507.2   131,507.2  s28,617.7
Other  inputs              31,715,463  11,357.717  11,357,717  11,715,463  14,610.183  14,618,912  14,673.381  14,632,595  14,631,540  14,610,484  14,629,429  14.629,429  14,629,429  14.629,429  1l,575,668,
rV.ng animals               9688.996   1 647.279   1.647.27    1.688.996   1 63.92.636   1.801.771   1 917 175   1.026.312  1,926,312 _1,26.312   1.S926312   3.926,312   1.920.332   1.926.312   1.820.045
sub-total o96r8t4mg CcoOr3s 31 Tjill      I so 3410.0, 33.kO0 06  34.333.78-6  40,37.408!400.4  274.20.2   40..,642,S6   40.767.139  4_0 9?,S599 ~~90j~ 401j27638  4.0.94j..15844 j941 584  40.808.82
-ftetal Utst1u3 ceai         34.333,766  33,450036  33,450,016  3, 333,786  40.51-,336   40,486,898  40,725,387 -i0,6 47F'!3 40,767,239 40.925,598  40,930,405  40,97.639  40,941,4  40 , 981     68.0.-825
bet Cog"t
Other inputs                          -  11.172.560   3.679.750   6.861.52S   6.661.S26   356,S25.0   356.52c.0                                      - -  -      -                        -1
anrLN.io3.3.8   44.622.S16 -35.129.766  40.99S.331  47.245.861  40.843.023  4303928.4.4    0772940.925.598e  40.9380,.j  to.937.638  4o0,91.58e  40.843.584  40.K-68 0825
30 16..            26.289.130 ~~~~~~14,561.863  24.054.631  19.627.605  20.756.915  SS.292.099  35.493.376  )7.699.3L43  38.542.070  4.9447    456-7 49-2  46.868.933  46.043.814  i6.133268   684.3
I bin~~ knefite    47,256,804  35,011,646  44,506,396  4055294,24595,6,735,3,4    8740,812  59,587,543  63,039,944  66720.391  86.931,383  67,089,305  67,178,739  67,01,40
- 7.96, WPY  28,S38,183.75
~nIenJIo Ca*htr
NWa  21 MUM2;S  I39
2-1 Howe bockc it. N..ngjin Su.bptoja.t Su3,ptoject M4odel



Xieolengdi Rosettlpentt PCoJct--_"Jin Cownty
69Zo^Ctos--He_r move In Sengj.n Subproject Model
mca80ac BMMT (aam"6ZW
(in YUGO$ /a
Sptember--October
Wit hout
Praject                                                                                         With Ptoject
1 to 30      1           2           3           4     s                6           7                  _                         e _  9   _O14                                    Is
ft0atia4
toed crops                    4,096,199  4.096,198  4.028,674  3.980.506  3,950,400  3.145,901  3,183,318  2,991,538  2,839,973  3,522,680  3,428,611  3,,45,037  3,6013.02  3.601,302  3,601,302  3,60t,102
Cash Crops                    1,2ao,770  1.288,770  1,316,990  3,350,5sS  1,38S,262  1,160,237  1,1t0,63S  1,223,353  1.311.3.13    ,663,109  3,721,382  3,691,384  3,644,040  3,194,823  1,594,823  1,594,821
Frunt                         1,111,030  3,11I.011  1,043.924  975,837.0  908,249.9  720,305,8  858,081.0  907,993.0  t.087,371   _380,324  1,732,667  2,266,562  3,074,402  4,286,897  5,195,962  6,004,783
Naat  tid eggs                591,16.  593,162.5  628,413.8  663,66S.o  698,916.3  622,029 3  62_,029.3  73,578 .  S0,856.1  ,.062 836  1 172 631  1172fi63l  ,j 172 631  t ,i2.631  i1 72 63k  1,172.631
'4tot9l Mash toductson         7,089,141  7,089,143  7.017,503  6,970,596  6,942,829  5,656,272  s.8t4,063  5,854,463  6,079,317  7,628,930   8,055,090 6,625,615  9,493,175 10,655,652 11,564,713  12,371,536
;E 2red4actit
fodder and forage             116,338.3  116,348.3  115,159.7  15S,1S4.5  115,398.9   93,353.2   94,191.9   91,685.6   90,389.6  1333,98.3  113,036.5  3IS,647.2  116,444.5  135,527.6  IIS5,27.6  115,527.6
Meat and *99s                 266,581.4  26b,581.4  312,275,8  357,970.2  401.664.6  398,961.4  398,961.4  540,964.5  682,845.5  8753618.4  1,017,716  1,017,716  1,017,716  1,017.716  1,017,716  1,017,716
other chisel products          79 963.9   79 963 9   90,901 9   0ols3.9.9  112.71779  100,598.5  108,596.5  142 590.2  176,545.2  22s;690.0 Zs5.764.9  259,764.9  259.763.9  259.764.9  259.764.9  259.761.9
-.t.ota, 3yp.oducta            462,893.6  462,893.6  5L.863.4  S7!964.6  6 33 6.4 4                   601,751.8  775,240.3  949,700.3 4,2t4.250  1,390,SL7  _I 39128 '393.i925 ,. 393.008  393.008    39008
3go Vlaue et NWeLsos           7.552.035  *,552.035  7,536,139  7,545,561  7,574,669  6,257,1e6  6,415,8St   6.629,703  7,029,090  0,843,187  9,445,608 10,068,742 10,897,3:0  la.0t8,3 12,957,725  33,764,545
In-ta= Use
rood crops                    709,360.7  709,360.7  710,095.7  716,145.4  726,195.0  600,139.0  607,453.6  609,737.7  634,42e.3  793,874.9  838,896.1  043,682.9  841,682.9  843,682.9  841,682.9  641,602.9
Fodder and foreg                5,998.1    5,998.1    7,056.5    6,1o 5.0    9,173.4    9,097.9    9,097.9   12,387.2   15,673.7   20,099.7   22,396.9   23,396.9   23.396.9   23.396,9   23,396.9   23,396.9
Othet anial p:odoota           35 975.9   3,975.9   37 930.3   39,804.7   41.839,1   364992.3 ,6.992.2                  ,   .SJ.*9f 123.0   62,014.5   68,102.9   68,102.9   68.102,9   68102,9   60,102.9   68,082.9
-fota1 On-tam Uo               753,334.7  754,334.7  755,002.s  766,105.0  771,207.5  646,229.1  653,543.8  665,390.8  699,225.0  875,989.0  930,395.9  933,182.6  893.382.6  933,32. J6 933,182.4  93,182.6
rFOO  Ctop3                   1,367,821  1.167.821  1.167,821  1,167,82t  t.167,821  947.042.6  947,042.6  947,042.6  946,507.4  1,167,821  1,167,821  1,167,821  3,l67,823  1,167,820  1,361,821  1,367,821
Cash crops                    36s,74o.6  365,740.6  365,740.6  365,740.6  365,740.6  296.s96.6  296,596.8  296,596.8  296,429.3  365,740.6  365,740.6  365,708.6  165,740.6  365,740.6  365,710.6  365,740.6
Ntat ond 8999                  b,3 2 54950- 265,345.6  265,345.0  265,35.S0  265,345.0  215, 183.1  235,181.1  215.383,3  216 059,S,  265,145.0  265,345.0  265,345.0  265.345,0  265,345.0  265,335.0  265,165.0
kh-Iata  04-tama ciamplitoa j_,j98907  3 768.97  3.798.907  3.790.907  1.79;.907 4,458.821  3.5882 .458.1121                _h~!   i4940    1 I798.907 1,798 90?  3.790 907  3.7'98.907  3,798,903) ,3798.907
lo3t Vga      Of  ewatooon,    5,001,793  5,001,791  4,982,150  4,980,509  4,998,555  4,1  523B6  64,303,-51  4,0.692  4,8i1.876  619.I2 92  6,736,305  7,336,65  8.355,01   9 ,336-,571 30,2225,636 13.034.45
Cash Crops                    126,68S.4  126,6805.6  138979.7  111,271.9  103,565.1   71,908.3   71,908.3   47,958.2   23,950.1   24.008.3                                   -                 -
Other  ncom,                   09.61.2   84394.6   78.926,0   73 461,4   67.994.8   S1,006.4   34.018 0   Il 029.6                        -                 -                      -
~1in8                         4,960.969  4,959,501  4,942,099  4,s;2,6se  4,962,985   .13)1,234  4.265,561  4,474,763  4,647,926  6,144,283  6,3N6,20S  7,336,653  8,155,011  9,316,871 00,225,638 11,036,615
e~ tia Coot
1sae~stma
sa,dllnqs                                       -    7,645.6    7,645.6    7,645.6    7,60S.6              -   23,760.0   23,760.0   23,760.0   23,817.6             -           -          -           -           -
erot.tuq
15"As                       i6,959.5  165,9S5.S  149,236.2  152.514.0  IS5,791.8  129,325.5  127,175.2  335,211.1  143,180.3  383,026.9  384,555.3  177,872.8  371,390.3  164,491.6  166,491.6  164,491.6
loow crops                          .           -   58,729,2  306,113.7  355,858.3  200,972.8  197,658.1  373.953,8  527,517.8  683,083.8  6)5.073.3  432,286.5  812,286.5  812,2816.5. 812,286.5, 832,286.5 
sedl5ns                     47,838.3   47,83,    47.814.7   47.813,2   47,007.0   38,764.2   38,764.2   38,753.6   38,721.0   47,772,3   47,760,5   47.66 3,8  7.761,5   47,761.5   67,761.5   47,761.
F.rttlirsr* end pesticid. 1.210.483  3.230,443   ,196,297  318u5,495  1,378,039  982,840.4  955,003.0  926,392.7  903,877.7  3,120,609  1,106,165  1,115.531  3,192,022  1,228,101  1,260,807  1,278,670
Other tiassa  prgodt:        69,662.6   64,662.6   61,951.0   59,239.7   56,521.4   41,210.3   90,828.0   32,039.8   21,382.9   27,010.3   37,376.0   16,388.0   35,00.0o   13,809.3   33,809.1   33,809.3
Other Inputs                1,232,498  1.232,498  1.230,389  1,227,879  1,225,570  988,720.8  987,186.9  978,476.0  969,200.2  3,l95.594  1,183,633  3,178,866  1,171,099  13169.320   , 160,320  3,168,320
Tome enamels               143,722.9  143 322.9  360,980.3  i78.237,7  195,495.0  185,563.3  181,581.3  239s  11.5  295,775.8  3737642,9  427,403.1 421 4039   427,40   427403,                           
ft-to".,  OpaTatss9 Coao"    2.80e.10 I   .4,3329047   .5.31                  014.79   2.514415  2.53259  j,24?,0'16  !2 9,'55  3,62!!73   3J2,26L!    .0.0938972                         ~       389.7    ..4
te-?s1a  Ptodootsrn Coat       2,845,103  2.845,0X3  2,9l0,82 -2,964,966  3,022,435  2,539.061  2,532,597  2,747,778  2,922,215  3.650.,97  3,826,084  3,805,909  3,839,762  3,863.173  3,895,879  3913,742
*--t cotJp
Other inputS  2.875.600  2.075.6 0  2,875,800  287S 600  1 012  SO  3.032.750  1 032 7S0  A.012.750                                             -          -           -           -      '
0v818                     2.905103  5.720.7063; 5.e978~     ,j~,.,840.566  589s9.035 o33     1 , js s   3760528 0       3,36    S  34 6   28  3 934.65    82604 329
bo   now.                      2.119.0666  '!.02.   84335.9.6,   95005159.423,0 ,.7Q.lj! 0,24. 2296.   2,4J93J'.786  2.3.2                                       '.3.75433.4    5.533    6.329,7Si  7 120.7k
at          lweefits,          1,918.773  1,037,706  954,563.2  901,038.7  663,856.1  2,038.244  2,179.034  2,173,0s5  2.370.98  4,292,693  4,709,127  5,329,651  6,1s,154   7.232,305   6.126,664  8,919,620
a- *10.84., 3v * -1,764.223.27
tro wire o.    1 ngsi and Stwu  8hant
t w  27 21;02133 3993
I- R
1-1 Raloaut.--Ne.  inoa    bnagjio 3uhroe3t Nole



liaolangdi      China
XiOagiReSottleuent ftoject--wenqj 10county
xeiocatee--wet move to  eJin Subproject Model
tln Yuan) /a
16 t_o 3
Irmar~                       3, 61.1 02
ca8b Cops                    1.S94.82
aruit                        6,409.68
Meat and egm                 1 A72.3
my teaj   ea9nt.                21843
rawer Xa  orage              115.IS7.6
east cad Og                  1.0I1*O716
other widuet proI uts        259,764 9
ScSb-toteX 3_'pv               1.393.008
Vte.. We1,I Of h _atl.  24*1171,444
rea  crro"                   o43,682.9
Flaust and forage              33.
Other ensel product           69 102.9
S-fee   M-e.  s                9)31.12.6
sep-lo s.      m  s
Fewh Crvm                    1,167;S21
Cash Cropa                   368.140.6
Meat and eOm                 265, I8.0
ed4W         ox-farm Crouc   1 .798 901
3.1 visee   f 11eatt          1     ,3
Cash Ctro
Oter lognfl
Otbr Income
Seedli m
$eeds                      264.491,6
seedling5                   47.761.8                                                                                                                                                                    .
fettiliasr *ed pesticide  1.278.670
Other *ni_I products        13,809.1
otheg inputs               1,169.320
To"  anirni               U427,403.1
albtot" asotatw  Cose    -13-72
80,Tow  _P    MGM Cost         3.913,742
Othet Saputs
C1ln                         3.913.742
Mt    _       o eets          -924.839
Ur
-                                            3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-2 Kelocatee-..tear Nov. in Nsngin Subptoject Model



I)SEtt, tTURGfS% 4 PACtMTN
-   1: _  pd&w_ Cou                             Mm#
I                            2                           3                            4                           5                   TOTN.              Fsodp         one.
LCO        tgci   Frip                                     LOW    foldo                Lood   FO_dP                Icd   Foed_                LFcAL FOREGN              cihS         Cst
-                                 tost      codt    Tod         cast               Tld       to                Tomt Told  cost    cmst     Told      cmol      cost    TOld    COST    COST   TOTAL          0(t       (%
uiedcnI-                         0M4           0      .h       6,7W0        0     6.70o 3G0             a       w          0         0        0         o0       0        0    13.           0     33         0%        2%
h*Vftf_&aa8_op                  e2.*13     M2.00    94.ss3    43X37    2t4s    65s12   41.27         6.492    4.1I19    1.6S         0     (.606        0        0        0    6t604    40*76  2102o0        19%       29%
a           _ & qAwe           171.72     49.0   22#.072    104.M73      8.006   119,719    7JW     11*571    e3ao7     6.003        a     0,0W         0        0         0 o3o  84   76*77   4326e1        13%       63%
won_0                                          a        0        249        0       249      916         0      stO        0         0        0         0        0         0     1.1s6       a     1.165      0%        0%
bN*                             14.065         0    14u66     35.063        0       03    20.969         0    20M6    1,373          0     1X.33        0        0         0    71.470       0    71.470      0%       to%
"cmg                           27S.103     0154    36.63    10.161    37.161   227.312   135.6    10         153.611t1.103           0    tI,163        0        0         0  611,976   MtM,76    73.729     16%    t16%
h*d              %)             S3.755      3,077    132       S.606N    ,ese    1,3W        em         n      I6Bs       ss0        0      5s6         0        0         0    30s109    eJ      30.436
55MIDTOTM.                     208U9       64*17   53475    199669    39,006   23075   142.2         16    161"91    11,721          0    11,721        0        0         0    4575   12291   765,tes
... .   .  .                                                                                          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
U'
0



RESETTLEMENT. NONAGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
Tabbe 2: SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT COSTS BY SUB-PROJECT         ('000 RMB)
Year
_________________________      TOTAL
1        2         3        4         5
County             Proct                                                    cost      cost      cost     cost      cost    COST
Jyuan    Aluminium Mioxide Factory                                             0        0      2.625    3,472        0     8,097
Cement Factory                                                    6,530    18.117    17,382       0        0    42,029
Fertilizer Factory                                                   0        0      6,142    7,860        0    13,802
Haw Processng Factory                                                0     6,105     2.488       12        0      7,606
Municipa Paper Factory                                               o    15.920    15.423        0        0    3t,343
No 2 Textilb Factory                                                 0    11,840     7,880        0        0    19,719
Reftractory Factory No.2 (new factory)                               0    18,886    10.190        0        0    29.076
Maln   Cast Steel Projec                                                      0       587       153        0         0       739
Hollow Bick Factory                                             4,215        0         0         0        0      4,215
No 3 Chemical Factcoy                                            1.518       42         0         0        0      1,560
Steel Framed Chair Factory                                         483        0         0         0        0       483
Mlabnc    No.2 Cement Factoly                                                  0        0     2.862       576        0     3,439
Food a Soft Dink Company                                          1,074       0         0         0        0      1,074
Uanshao Reractory Factory                                            0       796      690         0        0      1,487
PhosphateFertie Factory                                              0     1.523        0         0        0      1,523
Wan    Agcultural Fim Factory                                                  0        0      1,208        0        0     1,208
Aluminate Factory                                                    0         0    21,331        0        0    21,331
Cement Faclory o  X'an County                                    11,933    6,983        0         0        0    18,916
Luoyang Aluminium Dioxide Faclory                                    0    49,144    30,676        0        0    79.,20
Luoya  Constrnctn Ceramics - Project 1                           4,200    36,330     3,938        0        0    44,468
Luoyang Construction Ceramics- Projct 2                          6,625       512        0         0        0      7,137
Luoyang Construction Ceramics- Projt 3                               0    27,741    11,949        0        0    39,690
Luoyang Constructon Ceramics - ProJect 4                             0        0    26.355         0        0    26,355
Luoyang Sanitary-ware Factory                                   71.899        0         0         0        0    71,899
Luoyang Zhnan - Textile Kniting Factory                          1,088     4,366        0         0        0     5,454
Power Plant                                                    243,910    40,787        0         0        0   284,697
TOTAL                                                                    353,475   238,678   161,291    11,721       0
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                              765,165            U
to 



PT5              6SS3      194       tSS6      tsam      lo97      t990    2969       2014     2S4         014     2301      20f4     214       209       2037      2099     2014      310       201t 2402
40632 (lI)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7294   toNs?s   32e2st   567644   626096   660097  S04043   ens04    6 7167   671567   671963   67167   67ns63   67nses   671513   671563   671563   671563   676567   67563
_,m44                                0    363475 *30979         606296     11721        0         o        0         0    6t3s6          0     3319       466   602445         0       766    4604    6s464    62n39    3204926
(3)pi_u                              0       seos    66413      17ne4    256s413   290703   366750   227161    st9st4   22645    226454   30454   22646    326454   326454   st0454   320464   326454   22645t4 32644    265
TI,            3%                    0        260      2295       9709     16005    66633    49630    20052    2014?    20647    20647    204?    20647    2064?    2064?    2047              2064?    2014?    2064?    2064?          0
TgCOMOM                             0     350m0    30es7s    341444   294075   3642621   20629    347200   340600    43092   3405           36760   3407s6   641046   340601   349362   3569e4    4406   466340   366634    36693
?CASI FLOW                           0   (3P2A   (I96.I0        66.163)  266750   302.609   M4M7?   326.210  32296    2303671  322.06    209.03   3221004   130,67   W2,2061   3221   261.014   231.497   2502    269.720   640M7
I3EGIANTAL CASt FLOW                      (352P006) (96.722)   (65,1664  2975    3060   364.76?   321.210   322,se    31671   3229.0    29.0613   32204   130,617   322,960  322.t  281.914   23160    2NO22   20.2    640.310
sIMI-ow                                      s674      7744      10113         a        0    23462
)muVUIE6a_r_ph                            n1624s   7-ea0    6S972          290          0   9646
674090   629524      7714       996 ml7t         20149
t                                            SWe7    2N32t4      t266  203  00  1216    0e                                                         oo136
09Amuc-                                         0      1621      12606    1079       10006     696          0        0         0         0         a                  a         0         a        0         a        0         0         0
M                                                       M353476 3  112453    301   63021   77230          0         0         0         0         a        0         0         0        0         0         a        0         0        0
3_$ 0    dboo                       0    01143       96094    a03       62996      o560        4         4         0         0        4         4       4G         4         4         4        4         0        4          0
MM    a mh                                      0 37006         2mailsxt            03560         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        a         0         ao
=tlittildllW tdt                    63      757         e        90o       320        a                   0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0
yew                                            53  4302         371 2 279637  6750M           0l350        0         0         0        0         0         a         0        a         0         a        0         0        0         0
MMFLOWr ArtER OE RrSEIME                        a      6,467   (4 72) (, 3.0        21.744   t3         sx2sr  32tno0  322s6t '23t,s     322,*B5   290*1S   MAN.04   130.517   I22,ss   3222st  261*64   231A097   022   30*2
6A1VE CAStn FLOW                            0      1,461?   (0490.) (O62,6) i61o06   (475n0    6t7,J3        3066 I.Ift12   IlAtO  1.716.0s1 2M9.674 2.3            26s66.452,455  72.M60 3.14407 3*06*6  3.*B 3.576*  4,0 3 .70
FMR                     22%; 
- R46                                                                                                                                                                                                                t



r.ffnewn,          0 N  (uOWAaaR       93AgtCOMPNENT
wm.*
M                Von  is     " ts4     loss9     ue        967 ttln            te9ss     2eoF 0I             NM        20        2004      200s      200B      xei       2006      2009      20tO      206t      tOl2
R E(vv t q                                   9tt30   1ug*v75    512.409   e64.eBt   0.57    sMo3ut  1.01s.03. t.At0t 9.026016  t920.016  tote9  .AWQ0I9 t,e20.0t6 t.2.1    .2060,01                6 IMOI,016                   te,01e0.0  1.20.016 90ot.
0    459.409   337*6    22WAR2 t 7.471              a         0         0         0 et9,76            0    4s.m         2a3   2AW             0       0,f99    69,572  4to.1ee    64.10     49,e   (40et.470
OP,   cmigmg                          0       GM$45   6WM25    221.210 346.003   377,076   2057   406,36    406,256   406.756   40W6.56   40656   406.756   4.756   406.76   40.E                   675    406.7    4065    40675    4.5
tvNC09 03                            0    46025   427.599l   440.06    357.074   377,018   395*67   40r.368   406.75    617*36   406.756   456,400   406.664   695425   466.7    407.649   46632    511.6M6   569*6    456*6                6*6
ITCASWFUDWil-2)                        0   (455,684) (247M4)         l3   6i27761   661Q752   5S9,2Xt  60O.63   613,256   662.120   693,5          WM    613.02   324,651   St.t   612.16t7   65967   6.070   51Q15t  5O4N  14.M
AR&EM     AL CASI  FLOW                     f454   247644)    1tl    527?76?   56752   5WM7 9 6                  64 303       5tftl     6913256   6S35B      93        =4.59    693,20   612.967   655667       2.00   60.956   563.46   9K94.76
E"t               ~~~451%
__  _ .-:U
La 



ANNEX 9B
- 154 -                              Table 5
RESETTLEMENT, NON-AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
Table 5:   Sensitivity Analyses
Switching
values
FRR        ERR (% change)
Base Case                             32%        45%
Investment cost
up      25%                   26%        37%       239%
Revenue
down       10%                  26%         38%        42%
Operating cost
up      10%                   29%        42%       105%
Net Present Value (RMB '000)
discount:       12%                907,398   2,091,574



155 -                                  ANNEX 9B
INVESMENT COSTFINANCING                                                              T       6-1
The total lnvestment cst amounts to:
RMS in    USO in
C(0)      (1000)       %
Local currency                   642.575    112.732       84
Foreign exchange                 122.591     21.507       16
TOTAL                            765.165    134.240      100
The financing of the capital cost is determined as follows:
SOURCES OF FINANCE (Y 000)
Total          Percent
Amountt
Resettlement Grant                23,412       3.1%
County and Enterprise Funds      300,466      39.3%
CSIHoan                          391,149      51.1%
Resettement Loan                  50,139       686%
Total                            765.165    100.0%
The disbursement schedule reflect
the implementaton programme for the sector sub-proects and is
shown below.
Disursement Schedule (RMB in '000)
Year
Sourc _e__ _____                                                                       Total
1993      1994      1995       1996      1997  Financing
Resettlement Grant                 5,554      7.744    10,i13         0         0    23.412
County and Enterprise Funds      167245      78,980    53,972       269         0   300.466
C814aan                           174.609    129.524    77.145     9.871        0   391.149
Resetdement Loan                   6.067     22.430    20,061      1,581        0    50,139
TOTAL                            353.476    238,678   161,291     11,721        0
GRAND TOTAL                                                                          765.165
The Owners' funds are considered share capital (equity). whereas the
other domestic sources of funding will be Io'ns. Prmvincial level loans
wil be channeiled through the Constructlon 8ank of China. The terms
of financing of the loan financed pafts of the funds needed are
Indicated below.
Terms of Financing
First  Interest   Commit- Repayment
Repayment      Rate   ment fee    Petiod
Source of fimancing                            Year       tY)              (Years)
CBI-loan                                          3    9.50%                    5
Resettement loan                                  3    6.00%                    5



-156-                             ANNEX 9B
Table 6-2
Estirmaed Cost:                               Local   Foreign      Total
Land Development                             13,553        0     13,553
CivI Works & Buldings                       169,804   40,676    210,280
Machinery & Equipment                       356,184    76,077    432,261
Vehides                                       1,165        0      1,165
Services                                     71,470        0     71,470
Base Cost                                611,976   116,753    728,729
Physical Contingencies                    30,599     5,838     36,436
Total Project Cost                      642,57S   122,591    765,165
Finandng Plan:                                Local  Foreign       Total
Resetement Grant                             23,412              23,412
County and Enterprse Funds                  300,466             300,466
CBI4oan                                     391,149             391,149
Restlement Loan                              50,139        0     50,139
Total                                   765,160        0    765,165
Estimated Disbursement
World Bank FY                               1993     1994       1995      1996      1997
Annual                                   353,476   238,678    161,291    11,721        0
Cummulative                              353,476   592,154    753,445   765,165   765,165
Rate of Retum:                      45%



X-AOLAU    MULTI PURPOSE DAM . RESETIlEMENT COMPONENT, NON-AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES
SUMMARY OF FUNDING BY PROJECT AND SOURCE, MAJOR COST-BENEFIT RESULTS AND No OF RELOCATEES
FUNDING BY SOURPCE C000 RMB)
% of TOTAL        TOTAL      OWN        CFI  RESET.   RESET.                              NO d
PROVINCECOUNTY                  PROJECT TITLE                                    FINANCING        FINANCING    FUNDS      LOAN      LOAN    GRANT         FRR       ERR RELOCATEE
NENAN   Jiyu1n                                                                            20%        149.673    38.700    83.282    27.690         0                          2,658
Mango,                                                                           1%          6.997     1,236      609      2.927     2.226                           394
Mbndl                                                                            1%          7,522     2,100     2,599     2.823         0                           403
x?nan                                                                           79%        600,974   258.431   304,656    16.899     2t,186                         4.43D
Total IHten                                                                              100%        765.165   300,466   391.140    50.139    23,412                          7.665
FILENAME
HENM    .Ryua                  Ahuidn  ObiWe Factory                             ALUD_fAC.WK     l    6,097         0      5.277      020          0      90%       70%         82
Cement Factory                                   CEMPRMFAWWK          42.029    21.675    15.244     5,110         0      23%       47%        511
ferizer Facory                                   FF_fACT.WKI          13,602         0    11.802     2.000         0      27%       34%         I50
Haw Processng Factory                            HPFFACT.WK-           7.606      S00      4.706     2,400         0      33%       39%         too
Armdtipt Paper Factoy                            MPF_FACT.WK          31.343     3.500    25.493     2,350         0      26%       31%        294
No 2 Textile Factoxy                             NO2T_FAC.W           19.719     4,000     7.709    8,010          0      30%       39%        601
Retaclry factry No.2 (new factry)                RF2N_FAC.WK          29.076     9.025    13.051     7.Pr0         0      29%       28%        720
Menglin               CastSteel Proed                                  CS_FACT.WKt             739         0       39       700          0      60%       81%          70
Holrow Oftcl Factory                              fF_FACT.WK'          4.215       7C0      545      1,485      1,485     62%       60%        150
No 3 ChoemcaFaoy                                 N03Clt_FA.WK          I,560      536        24       600         00     1l0%      269%         74
Slee FamWed Chair Factory                        SFCF_FAC.WK-            483        0         0       242      240.5      32%       38%        100
Alancd                No.2 Cement Factoy                               CEM_FACT.WK           3,439     1.600     1,839        0          0      34%       43%         112
Food & Sot Drink Coma                            FSD_FACT.WK           1,074        0       274       oeo          0      59%       72%         41
LIanaao Refractory Factory                       LRF-FACT.WKI          1.487        0       487      1,000         0      20%       27%        1S0
Phosphate Fertior Factory                        PFF_FACT.WKt          1,523      500         0      1,023         0     117%       72%        t00
Xbfan                 AgtctuturaFiBmFactory                            AFF_FACT.WKI          1.208        0      1,133       75          0      88%      185%         15
Aluminat Fadory                                  AFX.FACT.WK1         21.331    13.331        0      4.000     4,000      35%       77%        800
Cemnl Facto of Xl'an Cunty                       CEME-FAC.WK          18.916     3.D00    13,416     1,000      1500       7%       17%        500
Luoyang Alwudnim Dioxkie Factory                 LAD-FACT.WKI         79.820    50.000    24,820    2.500       2500      30%       24%        500
Luoyang Constmdion Ceramics - Prleit I           LCONCERI.WK          44.468     4,500    34,968    2,200      2,80       38%       38%        650
Luoyang Consitruion Ceramics - Proted 2          LCONCER2.WK           7.137      500      5,287      540        010      18%       26%        135
Luoyang Consitudion Ceramdcs - Project 3         LCONCER3.WK          39.690     3,600    30,530    2,224      3,336      38%       48%        550
Luoyang Constuction Cetamics - Proect 4          LCONCER4.WK          26,355     3.000    16,855    2,600       3900     172%      200%e       650
Luoyang Sandaty- ware Fadory                     LSW_FACT.WK          7ta99    48.000    2t,999       760       1140      36%       52%        190
Luoyang 2htan - Textile l(nlting Fadcoy          LZTK_FAC.WKI          5,454     2,500      954       600       1200     445%      512%         40
Power Planl                                      POW_FACT.Wit        284,697   130,000   154,697        0          0      24%       37%        400
01



- 58                          ANNEX lo
SOCIAL ADJUSTM   SUPPORT SERVICES
1.          Although China has extensive expenence with involuntary resettlement,
YRCC's resettlement planning process for Xiaolangdi is the first attempt to formally
integrate social adjustment issues into the planning phase of a water conservancy project.
YRCC, the provinces and county resettlement offices will monitor the implementation of
the resettlement program to ensure that social adjustment of the relocatees is facilitated by
protecting relocatee and host living standards. Other supporting measures proposed
indude:
-     support services for farming;
-     training and assistance for nonfarm employment;
-     relocation of villages in host areas with due consideraon for hosts'
concems;
-     transfer arrangements;
-     establishing formal agreements between hosts and relocatees;
-     ensuring that essential services (water supply, schools, health clinics, etc.)
can cope with the higher populations in the resettlement areas;
-     training resettlement staff on social adjustment igsues;
-     documenting baseline condittons and establishing an independent monitonng
system;
-     consulting with women on resettlement issues and assisting them through
training, employment in resettlement offices and identifying suitable local
enterprse opportunities in which they could participate; and
-     providing effective health care, particularly for the more vulnerable
relocatees.
2.          In order to realize the social impacts and stresses such measures shall be
kn: make a good resettlement implementation plan with the participation of local people;
construct infrastrture (including water and electric supply, mads, schools and health
facilities) and ensure the sufficiency and quality; reestablish production conditions,



- 159-                        AMEX 10
irrigation facilities and industries in compliance with the plang and make good support
programs.
3.          The initial resettlement in the construction zone shows that both relocatees
and hosts are affected in different ways. There are favorable aspects. Relocatees' living
conditions are improved. Previously dominant cave dwellings and flat ceiling houses are
replaced by prefabricated houses. The new houses have good conditions against moistr
and rain, and ventilation and sunlight conditions are better than before. The usable area
is larger than previously. Water supply, electic supply and health conditions are
improved. Income levels will be raised than before moving. Statistics from the five
vilages of Siyuanpo, Heqng, Liaowu and Shuangang predict that per capita annual net
income will be increased by Y 60 to Y 343 in 1993 than the previous year. Hosts take
advantages of the new infstructure and public facilities.  They can also use the
compensation to develop factories, irrigations, forestry and orchards. This will provide
more income and mitigate the loss resulted from land sharing.
Itegation of Relocatee and Host Comunities
4.          The relocated villages will physically independent from the host communities
but they will have to be integrated into the local administrative, social and economic
system. The degree of integration required in basically determined by the distance of
move. Relocatees moving back within their own village require the fewest adjustments.
Long-distance relocation require major social readjustment to the host communities. The
xiang governments are responsible for ensunng that the transition is smooth, that te host
communities accept the relocatees, and that social and economic adjustment probiems are
resolved to the satisfaction of all parties. The agreements signed by the host and relocatee
viaes indicates a willingness to coopeate and provides a legal basis for resolving
disputes. The CROs will also have information campaigns to raise public awareness to the
personal contributions that must be made for resettement and the long-term benefits of
cooperative development.
5.          Women In Resettlement. Women will play a key role in resettlement and
are given corresponding responsibilities and authority in decision-making.  Women
typically bear the burden of social as well as economic adjustment in the household.
Traditional support networks for women within the village will be essental to assist each
family through each phase of rettlement. Many of the concerns for education, health,
water supply and sanitation are raised by women, so they will be the major pardicpants in
decisions involving the provision of these serices and facilities. Women provide rughly
half the labor force and household income, so decisions on reestablishing livelihoods and
delegation of employment opportunities must include women as equal participants. The
proposed plans for transferring farmers to enterprises has taken this into consideation.
6.          Speclal DdvatagedGroups. Relocatees will be relocated in a collective
manner, unless individual households desire to opt out of the proposed plans. In this
manner, there will be support from existing viLage networks or from relatives in nearby
unaffected areas. Conditions in the new site wil generally be better for people who are



- 160-
elderly, disabled or in poor physical or mnental health. Children will also benefit from
cleaner, safer and more modern amenities. There are no groups of ethnic minoritie in the
reservoir area or the receiving areas. The most critical group is the elderly who suffer the
greatest psychological stress from the loss of famila surroundings and the disruptions of
relocating. Without proper attention, this can lead to physiological problems. Social
support groups and medical staff will be available at the village level to address this issue.
7.          Experiences In Construction Zone Resettlement. As for relocatees within
the same village infrastructure and public facilities were recved  soon and production and
living conditions resumed in six months to a year. As for relocatees within the same xiang
almost all houses, infrastructure and public facilities have been got ready, lands have been
allocated, people have started their normal life. Relocatees and hosts are sharing water and
electric supply, roads and heath facilities. And the setting up of third estate has forwarded
their integration. As for the vulnerable groups the assistance from local governments and
resettlement officials, caning from medical staff and special policies from schools and the
state all help relieve them of stresses and help their adaptation to the new surrundings.
Grievance M    nisms
S. Relocatees enjoy al rights citizens are entitled to, as well as obligations, according
to the constitution and laws of the state. According to prevailing laws of the stte,
relocatees' legal nghts and benefits are ensured against encroachments. In case of any
such encroachment, relocatees are allowed to appea as per laws until their due rights and
benefits are retumed. The chamel and process available for relocatees in Henan and
Shanxi are shown in Figure 1. Grievances can be categorized into three types:
(a) psychological and sociocultural, (b) physiological, and (c) economic.
9.          Channel of Grievances
(a) All governments from county through provincial level are furnished with
offices for public complaints, including those from relocatees, which can
deal with common gnevances of relocatees in their jurisdictions.
0b)   Resettlement agencies have the legal right to exercise supevison, from
upper to lower levels, on the resetflement work. Such agencies cope with
resettlement-related grievances.
(c)   As the supervisor of the Xiaolangdi resettlement project, YRCC is entitled
to monitor and check on local responsibilities to properly arrange reocatees
as required by law. It can deal with relocatees' grievances though audit,
examination and collaboration.
(d)   an idependent agency for social monitoring and assessment would exercise
monitoring of resettlement implementation on the basis of relant
regulations of the state. It is obliged to protect relocatees' legal ughts and
benefits, and is commissioned to accept grievances and eport them to the



- 161 -                               10
Jlm 1:   R        E    GMVANc  CHANNEL
OcCE .OR PUBLIC COMUINTS
r        RE~SETTIEM     oFFce
10.GRIevaNCEs Pros    .h Rglaino  Ln Reusto. ndRstlmn
DISCIPL INSPECTING CO - SSIONl
.      n~JDICIAL ORCA,lS. 
O!C Fm OR PUBLIC CINLS l
RSXmETTrM OFFICE 
DISCIPIIB INSPECTI COMMISSMIC
- : a~UD)ICIAL ORGAIS|
'Impemenatineoft apovd iesettlmentioplant sallp brevne   dep themrsosblt    tof pepl
goernen above county levl.Reocatios shallve  arneasuproec schdule re ndes
ofLrodutio  and lielihoodShalle properl arrnge Ryaowr relocate provThesXaoatgd
Project is one of the key State project. When rbmeloal  puit forfth any grievanc involving
fth local governmet and related authorities with regar to lega rights and benefits, the



- 162 -                       At~JA 10
Procedur  Law of Administtive Affairs haIll be first applied. Aoding to Clause 37
of the Law, 3With regard to any administrative case falling within fte jurisdiction of the
people's court, the cifizen, legal persons or any oth  o ions may appeal for review
first to the upper administrative authority or such an authority stipulated by laws and
decrees." If the reexamination is not accepted, lawsuits may be raised to the peoples
court, or otherwise proceedings are allowed to go directly to the people's court. f this
channel fails to give solutions, lawsuits are then available though judicial organs.
11.         Summary of Proposed Sodal Adjustment Measr.  YRCC, the
Provinces and the County Resetdement Offices propose to address social adjustment issues
through a number of iniftatives, which are Listed below:
Genera
Conduct planning, implementation and monitoring in line with the project's
resettlement program criteia. The resettlement program undertaes t4:
-     Protect relocatee and host standards of living;
-     Ensure that the moving period is brief;
-     Ensure that diverse income earing oppormnities are developed for
both relocatees and hosts;
-     Consult relocatees and hosts and secure ter agreement for plans;
Resettle people in groups, preferably not too far from their place of
origin.
Provide early land compensation payments to hosts in order that investments
in altemative income eaming opportunities can proceed before land is
Wtansferred.
Guarantee a system of basic income support that will protect hosts and
relocatees if their incomes are insufficient for their basic needs.
Introduce various preferential policies to support relocatee and host incomes
as described in Section 13.
Support for Agricultural Llvelihoods
*     Provide land-based relocatees with a minimum of 1.4 mu per capita or, if
less, increase irrigation.
Provide agriculture extension services to relocatees and hosts to assist them
as needed in adjusting to new land, crops and farming pattems.
Provide agriculture technology training to introduce relocatees and hosts to
any new technologies (e.g., irrigation) which the resettlement progwam may
introduce.



-163 -                         ANNEX 10
*     EstabL;sh credit hailities to assist relocatees and hosts in makdng capital
investments in agriculture.
*     Identify and explore markedng opportunities that relocates and hosts could
exploit to increase the revenue from farm produce (e.g., local markets for
fresh vegetables).
Support for Nonfarm IUvelihoods
*     Assist men and women transferring into nonagricultural employment with
employment skdlls training.
*     Locate factories and enterpises employing nonfarm labor as near to
relocatee villages as possible in order to reduce the need for workers to be
away from their families for extended periods of time.
*     Ensure that villages not be deprived of all able-bodied people in order that
agricultural needs and the needs of the young and old can still be met.
v     Assist urban relocatees to establish businesses or acquire vending permits.
*     Secure employment and nonagricultural registions for family members of
urban relocatees.
Host-Relocatee Relations
*     *Locate relocatee villages on the borders between two or more host villages
in order that te relative impact on any particular host village is reduced.
*     Ensure that adequate, formal agreements are concluded between concerned
parties prior to resettlement occurring.
*     Give preference to hosts in the hiring of labor needed to prepare land for
relocates where the relocatees cannot do it themselves.
*     Assist village leaders to reestblish themselves equitably within the host
xiangs
Junkstmcture
*     Ensure, prior to relocation, that schools and health clinics in the host area
are able to absorb the new population. Criteria of adequacy (e.g. pupils per
clasroom) will be in line with the prevailing prmvincial standards.
*     Undertake studies to ensure that domestic water supplies in the host ars
are secure.



- 164 -                      ANL10
Traig and Coation
*    Provide taining to reettlement staff on social adjustment issues.
*    A handbook of criteria, principles and practices will be prepared and
provided to each resettlement officer as well as to xiang and vi}lage leaders
oudining social adjustnent issues i the resetement program.
*    A deuiled guide on the resetdement program wl be prepaed and provided
to each relocatee household describing the progam,   m sation
stdards, income objectives, consultation mechaisms, safety nets,
grievance mehanisms and othier nessary information.
*    An similar guide will be provided to host households.
*    Offer kils and employment traig to relotee shifting from agricultural
t nonagricul  livelihoods.
SPrepare special information programs directed at relocatee children for use
in schools in the inundation area.
Dta Cotle cton and Monitoring
i    Prepare a fill record of baseline socioeconomic household data to be
collected during the resurvey of inundation indices and/or at the time of
completion of the compensation red boot
Establish an indeedet monitoring sstem with ability to introduce change
if actual condidons are below expeted/plnned oonditions.
Women
*    Consult, in a formal fashion, with women and with women's groups in
planning and implementig the resettement program.
*    Employ women in siang and County Resettlement Offices to work as
planning and field staff, and provide training courses to these women, to
help them understand resettlement and how to deal with the problems.
*    Provide 8kills training directed at women whose previous work experience
is Limited to cottage industry and who wish to develop new skills.
*    Assist relocatee women by identifying opportunities where their cottage
industry skills could be used in host areas.



- 165 -                        AN          10
Heal
*     Resettlement Offices will identify particularly vulnerable individuals and
groups and monitor their adjustment closely.
*     Health checks will be provided to all relocatees prior to and after relocation.
*     C!omprehensive health assistance will be readily avaiable to relocatees at all
times.



- 166 -                          ANNEX I1
_ANAGMM  OF ZW              333J=  -PROJECT         Chart I
CTRAL
LEADING GROUP
.WRRO
HENAN PROVINCIAL                   f SHANXI PROVINCIAL
YRCC          XID              YRCC r~~X     XLD LEADING GROUP
LEADING GROUP        YRCCRO  ER
YRCCRO         .          .   J       ^        SHANXI GOVERmi}ENT
HENAN GOVERN4T                    L
_     . g      ,    XIADUNGDI  |--- SHANIXI PROVINCIAL  SHAANXI
HENAN    HENAN PROVINCIAL    PROJECT           RESETTLENENT        WCB
RIVER       RESETTLEMENT   WORKING GROUP         BUREAU
TB          BUREAU
1   _   I   .  I I                   YUNCHENG
ENEN  1j16 NUNICIPAL GOV. --------- ....-..  YUNCHENG PREF.       WC
ITAN ENG.I I LEADING GROUP  |               LEADTNG GROUP
I     _                   -        |      . IIHOUHE DAMI
MUNICIPAL RESET-                 YUNC)ENG PREF.    IRRI/PROJEC
TLEMEN =BUREAU  ................ RESEtTLEMENT  PIo
BURERAU
I COUNTY GOV.   l.. .........  COUNT GOV.
LEADING GROUP  |               j LEADING GROUP
10 COUNTY/CITY                  C Ij COUNTY RESETTLE-i
IRESETTLEMENT OFF I-------.... --   KENT OFMFCE
VARIOUS XIARG I       ,         VARIOUS XIANG  I
GOVERNMENTS    --------         GOVWENTS   I
I                I                     I  
XIANG LEVEL                  XI ANG LEVEL
RESETTLEKENT    . ..      . -....   RESETTLEMENT
STATIONS    }                    STATIONS
VILLAGE COMnITEES **-------*- L-AGE CVMIITELS
*     INCLUDING YRUHDC, YRCCRO, HPRO, AND SPRO
-~-   COIOAkD
.... -COORDINATION



-167-                    lkU12
CHiART2
FUND FLOW FOR XUAOIANGDI RESETYLIMENT PROJECT
YRHDYR
PROVINCE
SHANX WC7B . .     .    ...      RCC   0C
I I                           ~~~~~~~~~ENGINEERN 
PRP.                 I...                               ..   
I.  I I                                                        *1~~~CIYPRFET  CI   
* * *        NYR0    ..   ..Cott=r
j HOUHiEDAM &
I. ~~~~L~~0               L2~R 0S i
Note: 1.      -       APPROVAL PATH
2.         ~~~DONESIC FMN  FUOW
.2  ... .    US WmN FLWEGIER
4. FUND FLOW DIDOUGH TRCC ONLY FOR WENKEHGTAN Eau N



-168-
ANNX 11
Chart 3
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF HWRRO
MINISTER OF MWR     FOUNDATION OF WATER CONSERVANCY AND
HYDROPOWER RESERVOIR CONSTRUCTION
(CONSISTS OF MOF, SPC, MOE, AND MWR)
..............         ----.*.........
RESETTLEMENT OFFICE OF MWR
director:       I
deputy director: 2
(all are senior engineers)
DIVISION OF      DIVISION OF     DIVISION OF    DIVISION OF
PROJECTS         PAST PROJECTS   FINANCIAL       COMPREHENSI'7E
UNDER            BEING AFTER-    MANAGEMENT
CONSTRUCTION     SUPPORTED
5 personnel:     6 personnel:    3 personnel:    3 personnel:
3 senior        4 senior        2 economists     3 engineers
engineers       engineers     1 engineer
2 junior         2 junior
engineers       engineers
* 0..  000.0000000000000000000000000000000*   *00000****00    00c*t.    *  * 9*.    a)



- 169 -
Chart 4
ORGANIZATION OF COUNTY RESETTLEMENT OFFICE
COUNTY GOVERNMENT
COUNTY GOVERNOR
RESETTLEMENT LEAD CROUP    PLANNING COUNCIL     ECONOMIC COUNCIL
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS           [COORDINATING OFFICE   RESETTLEMENT OFFICE   l
--AGRICULTURAL
--FORESTRY                                                  SECTIONS
--POULTRY & ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                      --MONITORING/SUPERVISION
--CONSTRUCTION                                    --GENERAL AFFAIRS
--LABOR                                           --ACCOUNTING & EQUIPMENT
--CULTURE                                         --ENGINEERING
--EDUCATION                                       --IRRIGATION SCHEMES
--INDUSTRY                                        --ORCHARDS
--TRANSPORT                                       --RELOCATION & AGRICLTURE
--HYDROPOWER
XIANG RESETTLEMENT STATION



-  170 -                                       AN X  I
Chart 5
XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
(Organization of Yellow River Conservancy Commission Resectlemnt Office)
FYRVDC/XRCC                                                         Y
GM OF YRwHDC/XKCC       ---L -YRCC R.SE..LME... OFFrcE  |Ir                     . TROC
|YICE GENERAL MANAGESR oCuNw ER-V                                            REC8RAL MANAeER *mG1uR-
,,   I  f   I              I                   4 EX~~~~~~~~RPERt PANEL|
lNAElRESET. LZAISON OFFICE I AUDIT   PAYMENT| |XL'IC RELASIONS| lENV5OCU
_CONSULTANTS
COmTRACT EmECTVm        EXECUTIVE AT JOB SITE        IMINISTRAtIVE EXECUTVZ          CAPITAL CONSTRUCT EXECVS.
P0RoaEcT MANAGER |         SENIOR CIVIL ENGINEER|   DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE            E +XECUTIVE FOR TEE CAN  |
ZOT ~  ~ .. us    -F8Rn"MT
LOT 1 EXECUTIVE |        MSHCICAZr. ENGINEER         ACCOUWSM TS                     T ECJGIECAL SERVICE ESEE.
j LOt 2 EXECVTIVE |         ELECTRICAL  ENGINEER |       EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT           Vw:EI.L  & vORaSNOP EXE.
LT OS 1EXECUTYE |         ENVIRONMET ENCSNEER        MAERIAL STORAGE & SUPPLY|      2 EXECUTVE FOR MATERIAL|
SUPPLY TO CONTRACTORS
EXECUTIVE  FOR          LABORATORY  DIRECTOR         PERSONNEL APFAIRS
=OTER CONTRACTS                                                                       caUSH  MILL    Uic    E 
_SAFE GUARD AND SECURIT|Y     ~       
_ __     .   -4lRAIL TRANSPER EXECUTIVE



Table 1: PaocuRENT ARRANGem
(S million)
Promunme  Method
IntemLocala
Comptnitive      Co:netitive    Interation"al      Forcm      Consulting
Bidding          Bidding                        Aooig  Acont  Services     NBF       Total
A. Cahil Works                                                94.0              -            32.2          -           63.8       190.0
(11.1)                        (11.3)                                (22.4)
B. Housing                                                                      -            48.0          -             1.8      49.8
(27.4)                               (27.4)
G *onr  vedr -ljaIdeduials                   13.8             42.3              -              -           '             '        56.1
(13.1)           (31.7)                                                              (44.8)
D. Agricultura Land h>Izuv.                   -               16.3              -             0.4          -             -         16.8
(6.0)                                                               (6.0)
EL Equipmewt                                  -                                1.2             -           -           179.1      180.4
(0.9)                                               (0.9)         -
P. Vebicles                                   3.0                               -                                                   3.0
(3.0)                                                                                (3.0)
0. C;ondtants                                          -                        -              -           3.2           -          3.2
(1.2)                   (1.2)
H. Tzining/lltrutisonal Suppr                                                  -              -           1.5           -          1.5
(1.0)                   (1.0)
1. EIinron ntg  Ma_ tgea-                                                       -             5.5          0.3           -         5.8
(1.1)       (0.1)                    (1.2)
1. Momutouig                                  -                 -               -              -           1.6           -          1.6
(1.1)                   (1.1)
ReAinin/En_                                   -                 -               -              -           1.3          61.9      63.2
(1.0)                   (1.0)
(t6,1)   !48.9?    L}  { sgg                                      110.2
Not  Numbers do no add d  to  unding off.                                                                                                        f



Table 2: PaocunEmr SummAaY WoR 
Y 10 ioxn                Y 5-10 mSiO              Y l-S million             Y 1 milion Ed less
Total    Per pk.         Total  }Per pg.           Tolal    Per ikg.           Total    Per pkg.
No.   cast      value     No.  cost    v           No.   cost      value      No.    cost      value
-(Y 10,000) -            -  (Y 10,000) -           -  (Y 10,000) -             -(Y 10,000) -
Small indst      8   16,892.10   2,111.51  14  9,776.00   698.29   58   11,562.63   199.36      207   5,5.41    26.26
Ron&             2    2,U7.40   1,443.70   2  1,274.80   637.40   21    4,107.00   19S.57        64   2,S46.50    39.79
Cam"ty Wiudry    1    2,745.57   2,745.57   1    655.20   655.20    3      817.07   272.36       6      275.13    45.86
Elecuic lins                                                        1       138.00   138.00     258     854.00     3.31
129    324.32     2.51
Dwnmlcst Ii...                                                                                  28      112.89     4.03
PReervoir pond                                                      1       186.00   186.00     49      576.70    11.77
Township omler                                                      4      709.49   177.37       S      18.4S    36.89
Otherw wob                                                          2      230.80   115.40      91   1,273.48    13.99
bnigadion wodks                                                                                231   2,728.74    11.81
River btaning    2   19,665.00  9,832.50
louhe dam        2    6,096.00  3,048.00
xqst         a    48-Q    AMO4   1720 1L7EE0    A"OQ    2Q   1LM99  .1L293   1068  14.31t                      J4
IS Esba.  were performed an December 1, 1993 when $1.00 = Y 5.77.



-173 -                     ANEX 12
Table 3: LOAN    S       SCHE
IBRD
Fiscal Year/           Disbursement                  rqect
Semester         Semestral     Cumulative    Cumuative    PMfile La
($ Million)            %            (
.1995
1st               8.00          8.00          7.27          0.00
2nd               7.00          15.00         13.64        30.00
ist               7.50         22.50         20.45         38.00
2nd               7.50          30.00        27.27         46.00
1st              12.50         42.50         38.64         54.00
2nd              12.50          55.00        50.00         66.00
1st              15.00          70.00        63.64         70.00
2nd              15.00          85.00        77.27         82.00
1st               7.50         92.50         84.09         86.00
2nd               7.50         100.00        90.91         94.00
1st               4.00         104.00        94.55         96.00
2nd               3.00         107.00        97.27         98.00
2QQ
1st               3.00         110.00       100.00         98.00
2nd                                                       100.00
La Bank's standard disbursement profile for agricultre in China.



A1i, EX 13
- 174 -                                                                     CHART I1
CII 
.                                     v.          v ... .. ... .                                                              - .                            1
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...    ............................  ..........                                                                   .v.....  ..v   v .   .......  ......  .... .....
"U.~~~~~~~.............                     -. .         .-       . ......                 . ....  ..- -. ---.
=                                                                                                                                                                               It
E    -. _                                  .=                                               v ._.__- F                                                              I v-
i[w ~ ~~~~~~~~. .5w0fe0u ..... ....       ..s .......        avs+swv<wew+s*sielV _      V      V    ...................... [   w vv ..V .. ........ . .              ....     ... ...e
-                    _  ._ _ 4.    .. _  .v   .                                              _.v .....__ 
C3                  -_ I=_ _                                       v                           v_vvv_vv__    v___ _
.....-....
X1...................                                             ........ ....                                                                                .    ....... ... vv;X+o*sils +Je  
|    |                     !      ffi                                             .      .            -            -.     4    .. ......
(01                                                _       __v                  v____                                                                                                 v
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ ...................-::
a              -           -~~~~~~~....   ......                                                                        ---- --------....
............
....     ...   . .                            . ---- ---_,                                                                                              j . .
-   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                               ---------
-              a                           -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . .. . .. . ... .    . .-                   ...        ....... .
jt.         II                                                                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..          ...        



XIAOLANGDI PROJECT RESETTLEMENT SCHEDULE
(Revised In Feb. 1993)
36                                                p.           n aom,w bdewen
34        .      ..                               .tt0-26S(ItifW perabgbve
32 ...............                                            ...._ ..._........................ ....     ............. ................
30 . . . ..................... .. .                                      ....                  .. ...RebEatb  Imm Cons ution  Zone
28                                                                                                                         Recatn from  Resev* Are
26
24 a       i     . . . . . . . 
2 7     . ...    ....  . ................... ......  ..   ... .                              ........    ...     .   . ..........  ...........                ...........  .....   .....I..........
tU        ...........   ......I...     ...... ... .... ......                   ..... ...  ....                                                                        ...   ...  ..
i 4      ..    .    ...    ....    .. ..  .... .... ..    ..  . ..  ......... ... ...                                                                                      ...
10at ot}l@dra    2  .... ... ..................... ..   p g et [ m a =...                                               ......... lt*
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~St
12  -  Rufasal lon amuwuu       ..                                                       .belwen ELI26-275
10                     beoE80...o.....un                                                                                                                   yUN up*iopI
8                                                                                                                                                                   7
6
:hhi.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEAR



1993   1 1994  |9996          996| 1997         1998  |1999 i       2000      2001  _ 2002 D       2003    2001
ID    MW                                         I _   _       13S    _ H _  I 2           _1  _ _ 21t _ _ 21 _ _39 _   ID__    1      _ --1-  1       'I 1   so 
Reservoir ReseZovfResOmfenIt                                       nin'ISOr
27           Reservoir ReSeWemant EL 180-265
41       ReereD< - ELtD. |  iS tim                                                     ffl               l             EL{ I~ 0 tm;_k  
43   .      l        *                       LLP.tt|l       -  -111!II111111-        
62                  t4onfam Sd 6 P$ AI m                                4         L          fIII                          
65                   IcgrRkelo
68            ~~~TownDes"                                                                                                                                      a%    ;11111t||t||-  -t---t!       -11       --I-It- 1         1111 w
69    ~~ti"stlublste                       |II            1 ,Xg                                    -11              11111-I                                  I
023
90         ranft  maRlatsSu 160 c4T                                                          iV       tt     f
Peojec- Xi   l Reservo di wMll    Oflt bISIOSI     -IT 1-11
130          Trase  f RkatemM690 1;gg|a1  ;" m-11111-]111.   .  
Pnge XalanOb Rosp nent     Cacal ----- .-    .                  . M                           Swnary 'IL 
Oab: 3123194                     NWRolld Up *
Page I



1993     1         1995     1996      1997  1 1998       19t9      2000     2001      2002    32003
Im      .                                                          .                                                           -us"  I   _ _    21  K     2  1 _     _ 21  1  0   E     _ 3 O  I P3 11 2  0   - 5 
137          AgrgcaftmsOvelopment-
13S_             Pasbitlnigation              I--  t               _    l    .1       lZ.P-4----11t-  ---  --l                                      -    i
143                d_1 _                                                                                                                 t IIIC
43          _nst                        _ ilns Debpis               _ 
153       Tasldwiilg*wftp EdwpConsbd 
259      R        rovEL    acs -                                                                                                               _
244              P                                     {|{      t1             t1 
fit          Tanst of ReI iaAeesP30612                J
26                RleTann                     "1V=- li4[V1jj                                                         9!Iqfi.~~
If"           de" s  de           onstrucs                               lttt                                                      |         -   I--- lt- I|
~~~~~~~~~~~~i.fping andRelo }Cdal_ tess Woikat   
21W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~      ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1
Psgt  Xlaoal-g.iRest *eReUp Ch,JI.I.Siimniw
t  , ,, 0  ~ ~~~1,    J.    .                                                         ,              ..W  , 
0ate ~~~~~~P~~)I96                             PA~~~~~Masd                   ROD jp *
Pop 2



ANNEX 13
- 178 -            Chart 3-3
-.la t t- De l 1-1 ! I  I I I I_  I Im ' . 1
1-~~~~  *m.mu
-S.L-'                     wu..nII
o ~~  f    j           uu1  UEEIEUEUUEN~~~j
__ _  - 11:1:::iipi"T_
K1C                 _UIVU



- 179 -                                  ANNEX 13
Table 1: ScEm= OF SuPVION  MSSoNs
Date        Scope of Mission               Epertie
l|t. Supervisin              Jun 1994     Project Laumch Wo*shop          Poj. Schedl
-Review                       -Resele. Engineer
..ACtidon P1an               -Monitoring
..Procuremt                   Splst./Anthropologist
..Monitoring
.__________ __ _-A ..Appointment of Cons ukan . .     ____ ____ ____ _
2nd. Supvson                  Nov 1994    Review                         -Training Specialst 
..Thadinig Program            -Procureme  Engineer
.. Procueent                  -.ndus - riaw Sp aist
..Progress Repot Poma
..Evaluation Procedure for
Industry
..Environmental Monitorng
3rd. Supevsion                Mar 199      Review                        -Indua Speiai
4th. Supevision               Nov 199S    ..Physical Progress            -Training Speialist
Rettlemenr                  -Antbropologist
..Progress in Training of     -Res Engineer.
ams
..Review of Indusal Designs
I ..Pwgess on Houhe
_..Progress on Wem gengala
Sth. Supeisn                  Jun 1996     Mid-Tem Review                -Res Engineer
..Physical Progres            -Industria Specialist
..Design                      -Employment Specialist
..Review of lodustil         . -Project scheduler
Restlement                  -Anthroplogist
i..Rcvw of Houhel             -Training Specialis
Wenmenpgtn
Resettlement, etc.
6th. Supvision                Mar 1997    ..Social adjustnent Prog.      -Res Enginer
..Monitoring                  -Industrial Specialist
..Cost _stas                  -Employment Specialist
..Income L.vels Realizod      -Project scheduler
.. Poject Schedule           -Anthropologist
..Environmnent-Indust. Wast    -Training Specialist
:__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   Etc.          _
7th. Suevision - Onwards      Annually    ..Review of Physical progress   -Industrial Specialist
..Schedule Changes           -Employmen Speciaist
..Review of Income Levels     -Project scheduler
..Review of Indusies         -Anthropologist
__________________   ______._______.___                    -T aining  Speeaist
Ditto                         Ditto       Ditto                        I



ANNE 14
Page I.
-180-
Table 1: SAMPLE NON-AGRICULTURAL RESETTLEMENT AGREEMENT BETWiEEN THE
ENTERPRISE AND THE RESETTLEMENT OFFICE
t.        Objective
In order to sette relocatees in non-agricultural jobs, the concomed resentement organizatons(here referred to
county and municipat resettlement office) and the enterprise (director or competent authority) should sign a
resettlement agreement.
2.        Parties
Full name of the county and
municipal resettlement organizatfon A
Full name of the enterprise or corporation B
3.        Content
The responsibility of party A
1) Provide party B with the name list of the relctes and guarantee that the relocatee workers meet the
recruitment condition(e.g. age, education, skil, health, etc.).
2) After complete consultation with party B, detemnine the payment to party B for each relocatee.
3) Provide to party B the resettlement investment certificate based on the number of remcatees planned to be
accepted by party B.
4) Provide resettlement invesirnent in time accorditg to the schedule presented by party B.
5) Concem and protect the working. lIng and wfSre conditions of relocate worke  and together wih party
B assist the workers to fohow the assignment and obey the regulatons and system and state law.
Responsibility of party B
1) Accept reocatee workers in accordance with the number agreed.
2) From the very day of aCcepting relocatees. the work, I fe, house and education of relocatee workers should
be fully the responsibility of patty B and they should be trated the same as other workers. The assignment
given to them should be based on their skills and teaming capability.
3) Salary, bonus and welfare of relocatee workes should not be ower than those of other workers concering
the same job and the same condition.
4) For the relocatee worker who does not follow the regulations or hao broken the state law, party B has the
authority to give him educaton or treatrnent.
5) For the benefit from the resettlement preferential policy of tax reduction shared by party 9 90% can be spent
freely by party B and t0% should be used for improving relocatee workers income and welfare.
Representative of party A:  Unit stamp
Representative of pany B:  Unit stamp
Date:



ANNEX 14
-181-                                    Pg  z
Table 2: SAMPLE AGREEMENT B1ETWEEN THE RESETTLEMENT ORGANIZATION AND
RELOCATEE HOUSEHOLD
1.        Objective
The household of the relocatee worker and the county and municipal resettement orattns should sV
an agreement m advance concerning the acceptance of the worker and relocation.
2.        Paries
Full name of the county and municipal or township resetttement organiztion patty A
Full name of enterprise or corporation party B
Full name of the relocutee head of household party C
Full name of candidate for employment party 0
3.        Content
1) Party A is responsible for accepting the qualified relocatee (party 0) to work in the enterprise and for the
formalities of transforming the registration and grain supply/subsidy.
2) Party A will assist the enterprise to have a proper arrangement of relocstee's (party 0) work, litfe housing
and welfare.
3) Party A is responsible for dividing the relocatee's compensation into two pafts. One part Is sufficient for the
workee's (party 0) necessites and the other pant is to be used as investment for the enterprise (party B).
4) Party A is responsible to provide parties C and 0 with all relocation and resetlement assistanes to which they
are entitled and which is not covered in this agreement
Responsibility of pafty 9 (as per Agreement t)
Responsibility of pafty C
1) Wth one member accepted as a worker. party C should agree to the new rural eoation and other conditons
provided by party B
2) Party C should guarantee that the compensaton of the felocatee worker be givn to party A.
3) Party C should assist the worker (party 0) to folow state law and regulations of the ernerpfse and obey the
assignment and love his job.
4) When the relocates (party 0) has broken the law or regulations. party C should ccwpt the pefsuasion and
treatment by the enterprise (patty O). The Rfelocatee worker who Is discharged from public empoyment sfould
no longer receive the commodity grain supply and non-agricultural registration, and go back to farming at home.
Representatve of party A:    Unit stamp
Representative of party 8:   Unit stamp
Representative of party C:   Signature (finger print)
Party 0 (candidate):        Signature (finger print)
Date:



- 182-                                     ANNEX 14
Table 3: STATUS OF AGREEMENTSIAPPROVALS
1. Construction Zone Restlement
* State Council Approval (plan & cost)                                                     July 1992
- Cost Agreement - MWR & Province                                                     September 1992
- Plan Agreements - Province 8 Counties                                              October 13, 1992
* Cost Agreements - Province & Counties                                              October 13. 1092
- Plan Agreements - Counties & Xiangs                                                   January 1992
(5 agreements covering all 10,000 people)
- Land Agreements - Relocatee & Host Vifages*                                           January 1992
(21 agreements covering 10000 out of 10000 people)
- Household Agreements on Compensatbon                                                     Nov 1993
(about 2400 of 2400 households have signed)
- Household Agreements on Proposed Resettement                                             Nov 1993
2. Resrvoir Resettlement < EL 180
- State Council Approval (plan & cost)                                                   July 1, 1993
- Cost Agreement - MWR & Province                                                        July 15 1993
- Plan Agreements - Province & Countes (3)                                               July 15 1993
- Cost Agreements - Province & Counties (3)                                              July 15 1993
- Plan Agreements - Counfes & Xliangs (16)                                            December 1991
- Land Agreements - Relocatee & Host Xiangs                                           December 1991
(14 agreements covering 18,683 peopl)                                        & January 1992
- Land Agreements - Relocatee & Host Vllaes (+30)                                           1992193
- Industnat Job Agreements - Factor & County                                          Oecember 1991
(11 agreements covering 5.197 people)
- Household Agreements on Compensation                                                December 1993
(none of the 4500 households have signed)
- Household Agreements on Proposed Roettmnot                                               July 1994
3. Reservoir Resettlement EL 180 . 275
- State Cc jncil Approval (plan & cost)                                              October 301993
- Cost Agreement - MWR & Provinces (2)             *                                 October 30 1993
- Plan Agreements - Provinces & Counties (13)                                      December 30, 1993
- Cost Agreements - Provinces & Counties (13)                                      December 30, 1993
- Plan Agreements - Counties & Xiangs                                           December 30. 1993194
- Wenmengtan Technical Design and Cost                                               October 30 1993
- Houhe Dam Phase II - Technical nesign and Cost                                    November 15 1993



CHINA XIAOAWGDI RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
CONSULTANT PERSON-MONTHS FOR IMPLEMAENTATION
NO.                    Man-months
TOPICS             LOCAL       FOREIGN        LOCAL       FOREIGN       TiME
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SPECUUJSTS
1. Resettlement Supervision        6            2            64           12        1994-00
2 MIS and Cost Control             4            2            48           12        1994-96
3. Implementation Planning         3            2            24           12        1994-98
4. Agricultural Development        3            1            24            4        1994-96
5. Industrial development          6            2            84           28        1994-00
6. Income Assessment               6            1            40            6        1994-99
7. Engineering Services            4            1            30            4        1994-96
8. Social AdJustment               4            2            36           15        1994-00
9. Environmental Management        4            2            20           10        1994-99
10. Archeology & Reservoir Clearing  4           2           36            10       1994-00
11. Health and Sanitation           4            2           36            10        1994-00
12. Preparation of Monitoring Repts.  4          1           30            8         1994-98
Sub Total                       52           20           472          131
PANELIMONITORING                                                - 
14. Resettlement Panel             10            4           60            10        1994-00
15. Environemtnall Monitoring      15           6            70            12       1994-00
Sub Total                       25           10           130          22
DEIAIL DESIGN EVALUATION
16. Detld. Design for Henan        30            -           30                     1 1994-99
17. Detld. Desgn for Shanxi        10            -            10           -        1994-00
18. Planning & Design of Wenmengtan    40        -           40            -        1994-96
19. Houhe Resettlement             20            -           20            -        1994-97
20. Acceptance & Examination       40            -           40                     1994-00
SubTotal                       140           0            140          0
TOTAL                                          742          153
Totd Cost                                     $1.0 $il      52.4 nm
.       H   ~~~~V.



CHINA
XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT PROJECT - TRAINING PLAN FOR RESETTLEMENT STAFF
BUDGET
ITEMS                              NUMBER      SITE         TIME       YOOO)       AYS
SHAANXI PROVINCE
1.    Survey and Indexing Review                        20   Yuanqu  1993                   20     15
2.   Statistics & Financial Accounting                  20   Taiyuan  1993-94              20      15
3.   Management of Resettlement                         20   Talyuan  1994                 20      10
4.   Design of Implementation Plan                     100   Taiyuan  1994195              50      20
5.   RS Planning of Houhe Irrigation                    20   Yuanqu  1994/95               20      10
6.   Implementation Scheduling                         100   Yuanqu  1995                  20      15
7.    RS Agreement on 180 - 265 m                       50   Yuanqu  1995                  20      10
8.    Material Management                               20   Taiyuan  1996                 10      10
Subtotal                                         350                                 180
HENAN PROVINCE
9.   Financial Control                                 150  Zhengzhou 1995/96              90      20
10.   Material Control                                 180  Zhengzhou 1994/95             108      20
11.  Planning & Design                                  80  Zhengzhou 1994/96              36      15
12.  Implementation scheduling 1                        80  Zhengzhou 1994/96              24      10
13.  Implementation Scheduling ll                      300  Zhengzhou 1994/96             180      20
14.  RS Agricultural Development                       300  Zhengzhou 1994                 10      20
15.  Industrial Development                            300  Zhengzhou 1994/96             180      20
Subtotal                                        1,390                                628
YRCCRO
16.  Financial Planning & Cost Estimate                  3   Abroad  1994 -1995           165      20
17.  Project Management & Institution                    3   Abroad  1994-1995            165      20
18.  Accounting Management                               3  Dom./Abr. 1994 -1995          180      45
19.  Quality Control                                     3  Domestic  1994 -1995           60      30
20.  Information Management System                       3   Abroad  1994-1995            156      25
21.  Project Scheduling & Reporting                      3   Abroad  1994 -1995           165      25
22.  Project Monitoring                                  4   Abroad  1994-1995            155      25
23.  Project Management 1                               40  Domestic  1994-1995            40      40
24.  Project Management II                               5   Abroad  1994 -1995           275      25
Subtotal                                          67                               1,350
Total                                           1,807                              2,158
Training Program (international Consultants)        2            6 mm           $.112 mit 
Training costs                                                                  $.30 mil
Page 1



IELOCATE.XLS                            China: CaWolangdi Resettlement Project
RELOCATEE TRAINING
TRAINEE     TRAINEE    TRAINEE
ITEMS                               SHANXI       HENAN       DAYS    COSTS
1. Training for Agicuturd RS.
a. Fruit Trees Planting &  Management    100          500     10          180
b. Medical Herbs Planting, Management
& Processing                              70                  10           21
c. Management for Animal Husbandry        20          400     10          126
d. Silk-Worm Raising                      50                  10           15
e. Aquaculture                            30          715     10          224
f. Household Sideline-Technology         300        2,215     10          252
g. Tumover of Dryiand into Irrigated     300        1,000     10          130
h. Terracing                             100          920     10          102
i. Dryland Farming                       100        1,200     10          130
j. Cash Crop Cultivation                 300        1,200     10          150
Subtotal                                1,370       8.160                1,329
2. Training for Industlal RS
a. Enterprise Management                 100          200    20            60
b. On the job Training                 4,000       13,000     30        2,500
c., Basic Training for Comm. Certification  2,000   4,000     30          900
Subtotal                                6,100       17,200              3,460
Tota                                    7.470      25,350               4,789
Funded by Enterprise                    7,470      25,350              $.25 mil
Funded bv Project   -.58 mil
w I
Page 1



186-                                 i
XIAOLANGDI RESETfLEMEMT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO YRCCRO
STATEMENT OF WORK
A. BACKGROUND
1.          the Xaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project will require the resettlement of
171,000 people from the reservoir area between 1994 and 2010. The World Bank will
provide financing for part of the resettlement program up to the end of 2000, which
coresponds to the El 265 m full supply level.
2.          The Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) has been responsible
for resettlement investigation and planning. Technical exprtise has been provided from
YRCC's Recissance Planning and Deign Institute (RPD1). The Ministry of Water
Resoures is responsible for the resettlement compensation payments and will maintain
management    evsu iion of the project through a resettlement office that has been
etablished in YRCC-YRCCRO. I1e implemention of the rsettlement project is
hadled by the provincial resetdement bureau and their local offices at the prefecture and
county levels. Since ther are a number of agencies involved in the implementation of this
large resettlement project, the project management coordination responsibility bas been
entrusted to YRCCRO. YRCCRO would be the client for this contract but the consultancy
services would involve a number of agencies.
B. PmoSE
3.          The purpose of the serces requested is to provide advisozy consultanc
services to YRCCRO to manage, superi  and monitor the implementation of the
Xiaolangdi Resetdement Project as per the resettlement plans approved by the Ministry of
Water Resources and the World Bank.
C. SCOPE OF WORK
4.          The Advisory Consultant shall perform a number of tasks under the
following component headings:



- 187 -                          ,     S
Ptqject Superwi1on
S.          For this component the consultant shall:
(a) Assist YRCCRO to strengthen their management capacity to supervise the
implementation of the resettlement project.
(b)   Assist YRCCRO to set up and utdlize    effecdve project management
system.
(c)   Assist YRCCRO to set up a project management reporting system.
(d)   Clarify and define the responsbilities of and relationships between all
agencies involved with resettlement implementation.
(e)   Act as an advisor to YRCCRO to resolve project management problems.
(f) Advise YRCCRO on the financial management of the resettlement project.
(g)   Patcipat in sperson visits and meetings with YRCCRO and other
implemeting agencies.
6.          her are three sprate trning components: (i) relocatee training, (u)
resetleent staff training, and (iii) management trainirg. For the relocatee traning
component, the consultant will:
(a) Review training programs, content and delivery mechanism for relocatees.
(b) Advise and assist YRCCRO and the County Resettlement Offices to develop
trning programs and m         and to deliver livelihood training to
relocatees. Training is divided into agicultural and industrial programs.
(c)   Assess the effectiveness of livelihhod taiing programs and recommend
improvermets to the programs.
For the resettlement staff training component, the consultant will:
(d)   Review taining plans, programs, content, staff capabilities and delivery
mechanism for resettlement staff taining.
(e)   Advise and assist YRCCRO and the Provincial Resetdement Bureaus of
Henan and Shamd to develop training programs for various administrative
levels and profesions of resettlement staff.



- 188 -                         N     1
(t)   Asses the effectvens of staff training programs and rcommend
improvements to the progrms.
For the management training component, the consultant will:
(g)   Identify management needs, staffing capabilities and develop a taining
program to stengthen YRCCRO's project management capacity.
(h)   Design broad-based resettement awareness programs (Chinese and World
Plank resettement criteria) and the -resettlement with development*
approah.
(i)   Delive training in the use of management information systems (MIS),
financial management techniques  and  World  Bank  requir
(ocu ment reporig).
MIS, nteal Monong, and Cost Control
7.          For this component the consultant shall:
(a)   Develop a management information system (MIS) for the resettlement
agencies to monitor monthly progress an' cost control.
(b) Specify and procure computer equipment and software and/or develop
software for the MIS in each county resettlemt office, at the Henan and
Shanxi Provincial   ement Bureaus, and at YRCCRO.
(c)   Set up the MIS and train local staff at YRCCRO, Henan Provincl Bureau
and the three counties affected below El 180 (Jiyuan, Mengjin and Xin'an).
(d) Train and assist local staff in the collection, compilation and analysis of data
for physical progress and financial disbursements.
(e)   Develop retng formats and assist the resetement agencies to prepare
monthly, quarterly and annual reports.
(f) Develop monitoring indicators and cost control parameters for effective
project management.
R l         Iplementaton Plnning
8.          For this component the consultant shall work wuth RPDI (under separate
conact to YRCCRO) to:
(a)   Review the annual rstlment plans, budgets and schedules for each of the
the counties affected below El 180 (Jiyuan, Mhenin, and Xmn'an).



- 189-                        ANNEX 15
()   Advise county resettlement offices (CROs) to ensure resettlement stragies
are being adhered to or if mofie that new plans satisfy resettlement
criteria within the technical, timing and financial constraints.
(c) Review Henan Provincial Resettlement Bureau's annual plan, budgets and
schedules and assess how the CRO plans have been adopted or modified to
meet provincial targets.
(d) Assess whether the approved provincial annual plans are consistent with the
planning and financial requirements identified by MWRIYRCCRO.
(e)   Advise resettlement agencies on the need for effective financial monitoring
and proper respons to resolve disbursement or financing problems.
(f)   Assist YRCCRO to reach agreements with the provincial resettlement
bureaus for each annual plan.
Aricultura Development Schemes
9.          For this component the consultant shall:
(a)   Review the planning and implementation of agricultural schemes for
resetders and hosts, focusing on technical viability, costs and
implementation constaints.
5b)   Conduct sepate assessments for dryland versus irrigation/floodplain
schemes.
(c)   Provide technical assistance where deemed necessary to improve the
implementation of agricultural schemes and related livelihood opportuities.
(d) Coect sporting data for income assessment (see item 7).
Industr  and Third Estate Employment Schemes
10.         For this component the consultant sfall:
(a) Liaise with local government industrial/commercial bureaus and the planning
commissions to clarify the development strategies and employment
generation proposals for resetters.
(b) Review the annual development plan for new and relocated factories and
commercial enterprises, focusing on investment requirements, investment
sources and job creation.



-190 -                         AMEX 1S
(c)   Asist the Planing Commissions to pepare   hnical and financial
feasility studies for each State owned or xdang enterprise that is to review
investmt funds that year.
(d)   Develop screening criteria, screen proposed enterprise schemes and submit
recommendations to approval agencies.
(e)   Monitor tie impementaid operating progress of enterprises employing
more than 100 relocatees.
(e) Assess a sample of village and private enterprises over a number of years
to detrmine the success of small scale job creation opportuniies.
(f)   Provide advisory services for future development strategies, employment
opportunities and financial management of new enterprises.
Income Assessment
11.         For this component the consultant shall:
(a)   Select a household income survey format (questonnaire and methodology)
for monitoring the existing and future net income levels for a sample of
resettlers and hosts.  Consideration should be given to  mcorpoat
consumption surveys since patterns may change significantly after
relocation.
(b)   Identify an independent local insitute to conduct the income surveys,
provide technical assistance and truining of staff, and supervise the surveys.
(c) Select a scientifically representative sample of households to be surveyed on
an annual basis during the life of the project. The suggesed order of
mnagnitude is 1000 resettler households (2.5%) and 500 host households
(0.5%) but survey design will indicate sample sies needed to achieve
survey objectives, keeping in mind geographic and household diversity and
other factors.
(d)   Prepare annual reports on income assessment and highlight the observed
incomes with projected incomes from agricultur  and nonagicul
schemes. These reports should include an assessment the situations before
and after resetdement and the time required for households to reesblish
their economic livelihoods (net incomes).



- 191 -                       &ImEXii
EugneeingSernices
12.        This component refers to the Wenmengtan floodplain development and the
Houhe Reservoir and Irtigaton subprojects. The consultant shall work with MWBIYRCC
to:
(a)   Review the technical designs, tender documents, cost estimates, procurement
procedures and construction progress for both subprojects.
0)   Assist YRCC to prepare detailed biannual monitoring reports for both
subprojects.
(c)   Provide advsy services to MWRIYRCC for the superion of both
subprojects
(d) Report on how project objectives are being met.
Socia Adjustment
13.        For this component the consultant shall:
(a) Review the methodology, techniques and results of the social survey that is
being conducted biannually by the North China Institute for Water
Conservancy and Hydroelectric Power (NCIWCBP) under separate contract
to YRCCRO.
(b)   Consideration should be given to separately monitor vulneable groups
(elderly, disabled, poor, youth, ethnic minorities, etc).
(c)   Conduct extensive field visits and collect empirical data to verify the rsdts
of the socidal surveys and household income surveys and assess the success
of transfer arrangements, social support mechanisms and integration between
the resettlers and host populations.
(d) Review the implementation procedures of each CRO to determine how well
social adjusment has been achieved. Particular attention is required to
determine how problems are resolved and what follow-up is done to ensure
the success of mitigation measures.
(e)   Provide awareness workshops and trainig for resettement staff to deal wit
social impacts related to resetdement and to encourage greater oommunity
partcipation in the implementan process and resolution of local coners.
Paricular attention should be paid to women's issues and spei
disadvantaged groups.



- 192-                        A
(f)   Assess the effectiveness and fairness of the mechanisms for facilitating and
resolving grievances, and resettler/host awareness of the procesL
(g) Assist YRCCRO to prepare biannual monitoring reports on social
adjustment.
(h)   Provide advisory services to YRCCRO and local resettlement agencies.
Environmental Management
14.        This component relates to the environental aspects of the Xadlangdi
Project which occur in the rservoir area (e.g. reservoir clearance) and envimental
impacts of resettlement (e.g., land development and new industrial enterpises). ITe
consultant shall:
(a)   Review the environmental management programs that relate to the reservoir
area, mncluding eservoir cleainng, cleanup of factories and mines that would
be inundated, and protection of animals during reservoir filling.
(b)   Monitor the implementation of the environmental progams and
expenditures.
(c)   Review the statement of potential environmental impacts from reetlement
and assist YRCCRO, RPDI and XEC-EMO to manage the potential impacts
or implement proposed mitigation measures.
(d)   Assess whether new  industrial enterprises have prepared adeqe
environmental impact statements and actions j'nns. Monitornew entes
and relocated entexprises to ensure compliance with national envonmentl
standards.
(e)   Provide advisory services to YRCCRO, RPDI and XEC-EMO.
Health and Sanitation Conditions
15.        For this component the consultant shall:
(a)   Identify the existing health and sanitation conditions in the reservoir area by
conducting field visits and reviewing relevant sectons of the Environment
Assessment documents prepared by RPDI.
(b)   Assess the adequacy of proposed progmams for sanitay clearance,
preventon of epidemic outbreaks, medical support, improved water sply
and sanitation and hygiene education.



- 193 -                       ANNEX 1S
(e)   Assist YRCCRO (or RPDI) to develop or expand baseline data an health
and saitation conditions in the reservoir area and in the reettlement areas.
(d)   Asist YRCCRO (or RPDI) to update basline indicators annually in order
to track the impacts of resettlement on health and saniation conditions.
(e)   Conduct annual field visits to verify conditions, evaluate progms, asse
expenditures and prepare annual monitoring reports.
(f)   Provide advisory services to YRCCRO, RPDI and local health agencies to
improve the bealth and sanitation conditions related to the rslement
project.
(g) Provide briefings on resettlement issues for community health services staff.
Archeology
16.         For this component the consultant shall:
(a)   Review the relevant sections on archeological impacts in the En mena
Assement documents preaed by RPDI.
(b)   Assess the adequacy of proposed prrms for identifying, preservng,
excavating or relocating archeological, cultural and hstorical rlics within
the Xiaolangdi reservoir area and proposed resettlement sites.
(c)   Assist YRCCRO, RPDI and XEC-EMO to implement the progams.
(d)   Conduct field visits to assess the adequacy of programs and expet
and toDp    bianual monitoring reports.
(f)   Provide advisory sevices to YRCCRO, RPDI and XEC-EMO to improve
archeological program.
Preparatio of Monitoring Reports
17.         For the component the consultant would work with YRCCRO to:
(a)   Assist in the preparation of an biannual monitoring reports which would be
submitted to the World Bank supevision misons.
(b)   Develop a reporting system in the first year which satisfies the  dreeme
of the World Bank.
(c)   Coordinate the monitoting inputs fom various experts as spedfied in
components above and summaize the realts in one co  n    reporL



- 194 -                      ANN=  15
(d)   Tain YRCCRO staff to ppare subsequent monitoring repor
(e)   Superie tfie preparation of monitoring reports by YRCCRO and provide
ongoing technical assistance as required.
(f)   Conduct field visits to verify the quality of information in h monitoing
reports.
(g)   Assist YRCCRO to follow-up on recommendations identified by Word
Bank and Panel of ExperU supervison missions.



- 195 -                        NN     16
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMET SUMMARY
(Summary of EIA Executive Summary)
A. IFIowUncFoN
1.          The Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project and Resettlement Project has been
subject of environmental assessment extending over six years by a team from the Yelow
River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) supported by 88 Chinese experts and also by an
Iternational Panel of Experts appointed to make inputs on dam design and safety factors.
The EIIA cvered both the direct impact of the dam but also impact of the resettlement of
the people displaced on the envimnt. The results of this work are reported in
22 specialist reports and an EA Report of consderable length and complexity. In addition,
a supplementary ETA was prepared for the resetdement of affected people.
B. PtoJW ALTRATIE
2.          The main altratives which have been considered in the past to reduce
resetlement, and the reasons for their objection are:
(a)   Constructing an emergency flood channel parallel to the eistng river
course: would reqwre relocation of 700,000 to 930,000 people, disrupt
iitin  communion and transportation facilites, and present many
difficult technical problems;
0b)   Mdifying the existing river channel configuraion, or creating a new
channel, abandoning part or all of the existing channel: this would have the
same effects as option (d). It would require resetdtement of up to 5 million
people and give no sediment control in the lower reaches;
(c)   Undertaing large-scale warping (i.e., diversion and setting of sediment
outside the nver channel) at varous locations: this would reduce sediment
traport and deposition but would not provide direct flood control, would
not be effective until large reservoirs are constructed upsteam and would
require resetdement of about 900,000 people;
3.          On the basis of flood control, sediment management and costs, the
Xiaolangdi Dam Project is the only proect that will furnish excellent flood protection and
sediment control with a minimal amount of resetement of people.



-196-                         A E6
C. BASELE  DATA
4.          The Enviroumnentd Study Area (ESA) extends for approximately 400 km
along the Yellow River, from the Sanmeixia Dam to Kaifeng in the east. This was
divided into two areas for EIA study purposes, the reservoir area and the downstream area.
5.          The basine data for the two areas is discussed extensively in Sections
3.A-D of the Executive Svimuary. The following brief summary reles specifically to the
reservoir area and surrounding region wheie resettlement is to occur.
6.          The reservoir area extends along 130 kn of the Yellow River valey. The
main stream of the River through this stretch is deeply incised with little floodpln
development. Eleven tributaries enter this section of the rver.
Genea  Characteristics of ESA (teservoir and Downstienm Region)
7.          Clmate. The climate is warm temperate with cold dry witers and warm
wet summers.  Average annual temperature is 10-15C and annual precipitin is
600 mm. Droughts are common. Air quality in the reservoir and surrounding area is
generally good although suspended particulates due to dust blown in frm the Loess
Plateau are highi.
8.          Geogrphy. The area is bounded by mountains to the north, west and
south, which change gradualy to hills towards the broad floodplain of the lower Yellow
River to the east. Almost half of the area has a grdient over 25. The east-west axis of
the Kuanglou anticline passes through the dam site. Seisic zones have been idendfied
for the area and earthquakes of magnitude 5 on the Richter scale have occurred in the
reservoir area.
9.          Mineral Resources. The mineral resources of the region are dgnificant
including valuable reserves of coal, bauxite, copper, iron and building mateials. The
reserves most affected by the reservoir will be coal, bauxite and sulfur-iron.
10.         Soils. Loess makes up the majority of the soils found below 1,000 m
elevation. Tbese very important agdultural soils are commonly slightly alkaline with only
0.5-1 percent organic matter.
11.         Water Quality. surface war quality is gerally very good, even though
the River has an exceptionall, .4gh silt load. There is some localized pollution, due
manly to mining entepnses, with minor contibutions from agricultul runoff and
domestic sewage. The shallow and artesian groundwater in the area is recharged by
rinfall, and is generally suitable for 2dnking.
12.         flora and Fauna. The location of the- region near the southen edge of the
warm temperate zone plus the variable geography results in terest  plant communis
that can be  laftivdy complex and diverse. Localy however, there has been a long bistory



- 197 -                       ANNEX 1
of settlement and cultivation, and the natral vegetation and diversity have been greatly
diminished. The diversity and abundance of wild animals are very low throughout the
region. Waterfowl are diverse, but populatic-s are low.
13.        Aquatic Resources. Riverine aquatic habitats are generally poor, and
aquatic communities are marginal because of the very high silt content in the river.
Significant fishery habitat is mainly located in the tributaries. Fish is rnot a significant part
of the local diet, and fish productivity, including aquaculture, represents only 0.2 percent
of agricultural income in the lower basin.
14.        Population. The population of the reservoir and surrounding area is about
2.8 million people, approximately 181,000 of whom live in the reservoir backwater area
and will be relocated under the development plan. Agricultural families comprise
90 percent of the population of the ESA and over 92 percent in the area to be flooded.
The main agncultural crops are cereals and cotton. Overall agricultural productivity is
low. Annual per capita agricultural income in the region is about Y 346.
15.        Public Health. The main public health problems identified include malaria,
diseases related to agricultural practices (such as Brucellosis), encephalitis-B, diseases
carried by rats, sanitation related diseases, waterborne intestnal diseases, and endemic
fluorosis causes by cooldng with the high-fluoride local coal.
16.        Archaeological Values. A detailed archaeological survey identified over
100 cultural relics and historic sites in the area to be submerged. Wbile none of these are
clssified as protected by either the State or the province, some of the items are regarded
as precious resources for research on architectural and art history. There are also many
important cultural resources in the area surrounding the reservoir.
D. ENVRONME3NTAL IMACrS
17.        Although the EA covered all environmental aspects, three issues were
identified as being of critical importance:
(a)   resettlement impacts on the socioeconomic environment (including the
resettlement and host areas);
(b)   resettlement impacts on the physical ecological environment; and
(c)   resettlement implementation and environmental management plan.
Resettlement and Reestablsbment of Livelihoods: impacts on Socioeconomic
Environment
18.        Resettement planning and management r          a major effort in
planning and management that outweighed the rest of the environental studies progam



- 198-                        ANNEX-16
by an order of magnitude. Section 4.C of the attached Summary (referenced Annex uI
provides a full account.
19.         A total of 171,000 people will require resettlement from the reservoir area
and a detailed plan has been prepared to be carried out in progressive stages. Account has
been taken not only of the population directly affected by the project (i.e., the people
dis$aced by inundation), but also the population in the areas receiving tesettlers, which
will be indirectly affected. The two main objectives of the resettlement plan are that both
resetters and host communities affected: (a) will not be disadvantaged by the Project; and,
(b) will share in the project benefits.
20.         To achieve objective (a) for resetter families: (1) the resettled families will
be re-established in a new location where the house, yard and amenities will be at least as
good as the family's previous situation; (ii) the family's new eaning potential will be at
least as good as previously; and (iii) the family's expnses and loss in income in making
the transition will be duly recognized and accounted and compensated for.
21.         Section 4.C of the Executive Summary (referenced AMM I2) assesses the
potential for these objectives to be achieved by reviewing provisions and proposals in
connection with: economic effects, housing, amenities and public services, and social and
cultual effects. The conclusions of that review are summarzed following.
22.         For Resettler Ft miliE
(a)   Economic Effects. Adequate compensation provisions have been made
beginning with generous cash compensation for all material assets. Smce
the continuation of an agricultural lifestyle is likely to only maintain curret
incomes (rather than increase them), additional nonfarm jobs would be
made available to ensure that incomes are at least maintained and probably
increased. The su ful relocation of rural people from the hee most
affected counties will be completed early to accommodate them. Care has
been taken not to overemate potential crop yields in resettlement areas,
since this wil tend to reduce the areas of land allocated to resetters. Early
action has also been taen to complete aeements between resettlers and
host villages;
(b) Preferental Policies. Preferential policies are being introduced for rural
resettlers and hosts including special stu for scarce farm inputs, direct
sales of farm products, training, exemption or reduction of grain quotas,
piority for jobs in rural enterprises, subsidies and tax exemptions.
(c)   Housing, Amenities and Piblic Sevies. The avaiability of these serices
will be better than prior to moving (60 percent of the floor space of existing
housing of the 181,000 resettlers is in caves which Be characteristically
damp and commonly a cause of rheumatism); -



-199-                         ANNEX16
(d)   Socdal and Culta Aspects. Almost all resettlers and host famnles ar
Hans and no ethnic problems are likely. Most resetter faies surveyed
were aware that they wil have to move, and although contr   have been
signed between townships few had any firm concept of the specifics to be
involved except those whose who are going to be resetted withi the next
few years. In order to minimize the social dislocation impact villages will
be moved as a whole group so as to be not be separated from their vilage
neighbors. The main concen is that the move should result in an improved
standard of living, espocially given the oppornity to switch from
agricultura to nonagdcultural livelihoods.
23.         For Host Famies
(a)   Economics Aspects. Altiough there will be some loss of agricultur land
there will be improved irrigation and access to nonfarm jobs. This will
resut in increase of incomes for host families;
(b)   1nIrastmctur  and Public Servies.  The analysis showed that the
resettmentprogram will supplement the existing infasuand services
to accommxdate the miceased loadings without loss in level of sevice. In
most cases, the new infastructure will improve living standards for the
hosts (see Ahnnex;
(c)   Social and Cultual Aspects. Surveys indicated that about 70 percent of
the host populaton were aware of the proposed resetdement plan. The
majority of these indicated that the program will have significant effects on
their livelihoods, and about two thirds seemed willing to accmmodate the
reb4der families. The indicaion is that the socioculturl impacts will be
acceptable provided that the host villagers are not made worse off
economically.
24.         Other aspects provided for in th* resettlement program include:
(a)   Grievances and Complints rocedur. A mchanism  based on the
Vilage Committees, which represent the villagers independenty of the
regular government structure, is provided. If a matter cannot be resolved
at the Village Committee level, procedures are provided for refring the
matter to the local government and, subsequently, to higher govement
levels as needed up to the provincial level;
O)   Safety Nets. If resetters or hosts are unsuccfl in achieving sasfactoy
income levels, they will have recourse to a special Reservoir Ara Support
Fund, which guarantees minimum incomes if farm or nonfarm livelihoods
fail to meet their minimum needs. Applicants to the Fund will be refeed
through the village leader to the County Resettlement Office. This Fund
will remain in place untl Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) deems that



- 200 -                       ANNEX 16
the Xiaolangdi resettlers and affected hosts are no longer at any partcular
risk;
(c)   Transport Capacity for Relocation. This has been a problem on other
resetdement programs and special provision has been made to ensure th4
there will be adequate transport capacity for moving resettler fanilies from
existing to new sites.  -
25.         Implementtion of the plan is already under way for resettler families in the
construction area; of the 9,970 people (2,330 families) in this area, some 4,000 (950
families) rpresenting 40 percent of the total have been moved to host villges in -the
construction.camp vicinity. By June 1994, it was planned that all would have been moved.
A inpection of the 900 family situation made by the World Bank mission on October 23,
1992, including discussions with the resetders, indicated that the resetders were quite
satisfied with YRCC's management of them thus far. Income in four of the resetder
villages have increased by 10 percent to over 60 percent within the first year (Table 1).
The floor space area for housing for resettlers is slightly higher (Table 2) ta  that
previously owned but the quality of housing is infinitely superior. The frmland is
decrsed slightly.
26.         The resettlement plan also make provision for monitoring and reportig.
Special rportng forms will be completed by resettlement pesnnel at xiag or vilage
level, and submitted to provincial and municipal resetlement bureaus. These will be
submitted to the YRCC Resetdement Office and enclosed in the constuction progress
reports submitted by supervising engineers.
27.         YRCC has engaged independent qualified social scienfsts to conduct
individual evaluatons of resettlers' socioeconomic progress. This service aims at
evaluatn, and reporting on, the level of living conditions and social services of the
affected pouation, both before and after resettlement. The evaluation will be done
annualy.
28.         In summary, the project resettlement and reestablishment of livelihood plan
is judged to be the most detailed arnd competent yet developed for a major dam project in
the developing world, and it is believed that, with continuous periodic monitoring the plan
will be successful as is already seen in the 900 families resetted so far. Based on the
plan, none of the resetters or hosts will be disadvantaged.
Cultural Heritage
29.         There are no cultural heitage relics that will need to be removed as a result
of consruction of the new resetdement villages or farlands or industral enteprises.



- 201 -                       ANNX 16
Inpact on the Physical Ecological Environment
30.         Publlc Heat. The pevalent communicable diseases common in the study
area include malaria, encephalitis, hemorrhagic fever, brucelosis, paragonimis, and
sanitation-related enteric diseases including dysentery, hepaitis and typhoid.
31.         The project will markedly change the hydrology of the Yellow River thrugh
the creation of a reservoir, and providing an opportunity for incrsed irigationof the
sufrounding and downstream  grcultural areas.  hee changes will modify the ecological
conditions for vector-borne diseases such as malaria and encephaitis, and for
communicable diseases such as dysentery, hepatis and typboid. Inundation of the
reservoir area will also force the out-nugration of rats, resuting in a possible hnresd
incidence of hemorrhagic fever in the surrounding area and population. The inflE of
constructon workers could icese the risk of both insect-borne and sitation-related
enteric diseases in the vicinity of the construction and host areas.
Other Fonms of Impact Analyzed
32.         Other forms of impact analyzed included: fisheies (in-stream, aquautr);
water quality; inundation of physical resources; landslides in the rewvow, resevi
seepage; reservoir area clearng; rare species and special habitats; wetlands; and globa
environmental issues. The analyses showed that the adverse impacts on these aspect of
the environment will generally be small and/or controllable.
E. ENVIROnM TAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
33.         A salient feature of the recommended ennmen protection prom is
mplementation of an Ennment Management Plan, fuly funded through the proect
Ihe Plan includes provision for an Envinmental  agement Office (EMO) which wil
have lead and coordinaing resosiblity for implementing all needed  I t
protecton measr  including:
(a)   Management of continuing periodic monitring for a_ssing the actual
effects of the proect;
(b)  Plmanning and implementation of needed correction meares (public heath
and saniton, industial effluents, culturl relic removal and resevoir
clearin  identified through the monitoring program; and,
(c) Preparation of routine periodic reports (and special reports, when needed)
for disrbution to concerned Government Agencies and to the Banik
34.         The present xaolangdi EIA team will form the core staff of the EMO and
will assist in the transiton period to get the Office fully functional as expedtiousy as
possible.  The EMO will make appropriate use of the resou     of all concened
Govemment Agencies including parcipation in monitog and need conrectin meaur.



-202 -                        A       16
35.         Public Health and Sanitation Plan. The public health vector control and
sanitation programs to be implemented are summarized as follows:
(a) Malaria. During the construction phase, medical screening of construction
workers for carniers of malaria (as well as other contagious diseases), and
routine spraying of construction site buildings and breeding areas to control
mosquitoes will be undertakn. The EA report recommended that mosquito
control be carried out using Bacillus druingiensis serovar israliensis (Bti),
which is a biological alternative to chemical insecticides. During the
operation phase disease prevention to be undertaken in both the reservoir
and irrigation areas comprises periodic medical checks of the affeted
population to deternine malaria incidence, and periodic monitorig of
potental mosquito breeding sites for anopheline lavae to detrmine the need
for special control measures. Special control will include spraying to
control anopheline larvae, habitat modification where cost-effective, and
medical prevention and treatment programs.
0b)   En    alti. The encephalitis control program is similar to that for
malaria, except that different mosquito species are involved.
(c)   HemorrhagIc Fever. Rats are the principal vectors of hemorhagic fever.
The prevention and control program to be implemented during  the
construction and operation stages consists of: (i) destruction of rodents in
the area inundated prior to inundation; (i) monitoring rodent density and the
incidence of hemonhagic fever in the control area in the year pnor to
inundation; and, (iii) monitoring after inundation, and applying rodent
control and medical treaunent as required.
(d)   Saniation-Related Enteric Diseases. Enteric diseases will be controlled
by hygiene, provision of clean water and adequate sanitation facilities at the
consuton site. Contract documents will require construction contractors
to comply with relevant provisions and the Envinm tal Management
Office will monitor compliance. In resetleme  areas, clean water and
adequate sanitation facilities will be provided in the host areas and vilag
for controlling entexic diseases.
36.         Induial Effluents. A total of 84 industries are exeted to be built
absorb resettlr. The fist 31 industries already exist. A detail breakdown of the
industrial profiles are given in Chapter 3 of the SAR. Preliminary assessment has been
performed on all the first-phase industry. All liquid and gaseous waste will be treated to
conform to National Envirnmental Standards. Since there is a wide range of industies
pead over a eight-year period when the plans will be put into production assurances will
be obtned from the Borrower that when the industrial plants are designed there will be
deailed impact  sment will be performed and EIA and proposed treatment facilities
will be approved by the provincial Environmental Protection Bureau before the
construction of the plants.



- 203 -                               1
37.         Culta Relics Protectio Meus.  Ie folowing gudelines shall be
followed, based on principles established by the National Adminis   Bureau of Cultbal
Relics: culural relics m the affected areas shall be sahged prior to the beging of
consruton and impoundment; undeground relics sa be idendfied through a drlling
progxam   vering 90 to 100 percent of the relics distribudto zone, and it is anticipated that
excavation of the major relics will cover 5 to 10 percent of the zone; surfce zelics shal
be salvaged sepately from the progam outlined above. Mhe most signifcant items shall
be eite removed, dismantled and relocated or sampled after survey and drawing
depending on their value and quality; the uneathed relics dsa be kept, dqending on ther
value, in county cutural relics staions or in museums at prefecure, municipal, provindci
or national levels.
38.         Underground relics will be handled, according to their values, by means of
exploration, excavation or recoding. General explortion and pncipal ecavation wil
be conducted for such underground relics of higher tecical values as histrcal sites left
from the New Stone Age, ancient tombs, china 1lns, etc. The total expltn area wi
be 5.501 x 10' m2, and an area of 5.44 x 105 m will be excavated. For those hisoria
sites that are seriously damaged or which have low values, proper inforation wil be
gathered and recorded. There are eight sites of this kdnd that are distributed in an ares of
2.36 x 105 n2 (i.e., Chihetan Histrical Site, Qiaohe Site, Maogong Tomb, Xaogou Tom
of the Han Dynasty, Xiaogou Mil Channel, Dejiao Tombs of the Han Dynasty, Luoyu
Zone of fauna fossils, Luoyu Tombs and Baigou Tombs of the Han Dynasty.)
39.         Relics on the surface will be removed, dismtled and rdocated or surveyed,
mapped and sampled in light of their values. Relics to be rdocated include Shiman
Grottoes, Xiwo Grottoes, Balihutong staues on cliffs, Qinghe statues n cliffs, stone lions
and ancient stelae. Relocation and recnion of the Tangdi Temple, which is of higher
histrica and architectrl value, is required. In general, though, it is unnecessay to
reconsuct such ancient buildings as temples, palaces or ancient residences. The main
components will be removed and sunreys and drawings will be kept.
40.         The National Administive Bureau of Cultural ReLics shal be rpoie
for the salvation of the XLD Project-related relics. Henan and Sbarxi Culal Relcs
Bureaus shall be in charge of the detabed implemenion, and te  enan Bureau set up
Xiaolangdi Culturl Relics Preservation Team in 1992. The EMO of YRWHDC shall
assist the National Administve Bureau of Cultral Relics in monitorng the actvit
performance by provincial bureaus.
F. Ovzm" ASSrSSM
41.        Tne Xaolangdi Rettlemt Project, as planned, represents a sound
reselemet   development/economic  project.  Especially sgnificant is the deailed
comprehensive attention given to the details of  t,  rep nting a pioneering
approach for major dams in China and in Asia by which It b proposed that all possible
effort is being made so tat no resetler wiXl be dieand most reseters will
sig    ay benefit from the project



Tabb I: STAIm CS oF HouSiN I FVE VIuAGES BEFO R AND AF1  RELUCON
Items     /     Villages       Xiaolangdi     Heqing   Shiyuanpo   Liaowu  Shuangtano
lousing Ares  before mvoing       38349           12431     28668      43362       1971
(sq.m.)                                                                -
after moving      47495           11960     27874      43155       2162
Average Area   before moving      36.18          31.96      36.61      35.87      30.80
of Housing
(sq.O.Iperson)  after moving       42.90          29.80      35.60      35.70      33.78
dwelling caves:
before moving       682           402       58S         622        352
Types of                     houses 322        602        421        382        652
Housing                      sngle storied                                                             2
premade bouses:
662               842        692        742        712
after moving
double storied
premade houses:
34Z               162       312         262        292
with
compensation    4.4167            1.6439    3.6825     5.8624      0.2859
Cost for
Housing        with saving      0.35             0.09.5    0.255       0.315      0.018
Construction
(Million Yuan) vith borrowed
oney            0.305             0.102     0.22         0.496     0.021



Table 2: SuMMARY OF RELoCATEES' INCOmE
(Yuan/person)
Items/Villages        Siaolangdi      Shiyuanpo      Reqing      Liaowu       Shuangtang
let Income
in 1992               167               144            170        550           243
services sector,    small par    project       project     project
project construc-   from         construction, construc-   construc-
Sources of the   tion, part of       project      services and  tion,        tion,
Present Incoma ' agriculture and     construction agriculture   tertiary    tertiary
newly-built         and                        industries  industries
enterprises         agriculture                and         and
agriculture agriculture
Net Income
in 1993              S5o                330           320         610           380
Note: I this able, the net income of relocatoes in the five villages in 1992 is quite low. The drought during
1991-92 in this area resulted in crop failures. On the whole, there is no question about the increase of the
reloctees' incomes after relocation.



Table 3: SuAnT[ON OF THE HOSr V=AGES AlTR LAm  REQULsmOK
Items  I Villages    Yingzhuang         Wangzhuang      Dongliuyang      Song(townsl..p)
Land Requisitioned      120 (mu)           730             1000              1800
Land Compensation       0.21               1.20            4.50             not clear yet,
(mil. yuan)                                       (go to villages)
Received Land Comp.     0.16               1.00            1.50               1.20
(mil. yuan)
Farmland before         1.9 (mu)           1.6             1.7                1.23
per
person    after         1.7 (mu)           1.2             1.3                1.2
Economic Activities irrigation wells, irrigation      extension of        telephone
Planned/Undertaken  telephone nets,   construction,  freight yard        networks for
with Land           construction       transport      at train            resettled and
Compensation        industries.        business,      station for        host villages,
chemistry      500,000 yuan,      resettling total
plant.         piggery with       1,500 people
fish ponds for     (already done
450,000 yuan,      271 resettlers).
public facilities
and middle school
Note: The compensation payment for famlnd varies with the quaihtes and locatons of the land. The
;ingtd land is usually reimbursed for 3,800 to 4,500 yuanmu in this resevoir project, while the
dryland might be paid for some Y 1,7001mu. The land nearby city like Luoyang has higher payment
rat.



- 207 -                                 ANNEX 16
Table 4: SuWARY OF ENvmoNMNAL REVIw it SUU*Mw
CritriaFator                     RS o ExistiPg    IS to New/Relaimed RS to Usbn Setor
Agral Arm             -       A                _
item                      OK=f See RS Tog  OK-f See RS Ten OK=ot See R Text
Sctions             Sections           Sct,ions
1.Fo Risctd.r                                                                 _                   _
1.1 Housing                                  f      10 Ro               10           f      10
1.2 Housingaism                                     11                  1            -      11
1.1 Water supply                             if     10          /       10          of      10
1.2.2 ExoretDispoa                                  t o 1f              10           Sf     10
1.2.3 Solid waa                              f      10          of      10          if      10
1.2.4Drainage                                If     10              o   10           Sf     10
1.3 Exnal support facilitis                          _                         _
1.3.1 Healtbic            If                       10          of      10          of      10
1.3.2 Roads                                If      11          of      11          S       11
1.3.3 Schoobls                              f      10,11       of      10,11               10,11
1.4EqUalainppotti                           of      5-9         of .                   
1SC ompenszion for lost inome                of     13          /       13           f      13
1.6 Povision of needod tainig                _      14                  14          If      14
2. For Host Commuity                                             _ 
2.1 Water Supply                             of     10           ./-    10           Sf     10
2.2 Hoal clinic                              S      10           -       10         of      10
2.3 Roads                                           I            -       11                 11
2.4 Schoob                                   S      10,11        -      10,11          _    10,11
3. Cultuallssues                              _       _           _       _           _      -
3.1 Aceptan  by host coramuniy                      8, 9         If     8,9         Sf      8, 9
3.2 Reloato with samlsiimiar ethnic group    /      7            /      7                   7
3.3 Minium fasibe disnnoe to host ara        /      7            If     7                   7
4. Sheduling adequacy                        of     14           101    14           101    14
5. provision of Envionmental Reure            /       7           I       7           S       7
6. YRCC/Local Govenmenss Collabortion         o       14          of      14          /       14
7. Monitoing ByEMO                             f      14          Sf      14                  14
8. Provision for Complaints by Resetlr                14                  14                  14
Note: The are some gaps in the tabulation because the resettlment planning has not yet
finished tiese detils;
/  =  completed OK; RS Text refers to Resetlement Main Volume, Ref Al.
Annex 17.



- 208 -                       ANNXJ 17
SELECTED DOCUMET AND DATA AVAILABLE IN
TUE PROJECT FILE U
A.   Reporb ad Studies Related to the Project
A.1 Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project Brief, RPDI-YRCC & CIPM Joint
Venture (September 1992)
Summary Report
Resettlemnt Main report Vol. IX
Construction Zone Resetlement Implementaion Plan Vol. IX-1
Detled Design of Resettlement Plan Below EL 180 Vol. IX-2
-     Detailed Plan for Mengjin Resettlement Vol. IX-3
-     Prilot Project Plan for aolangdi Village Resettlement IX-4
-     Report on   ement Planning for Yellow River Flood Plain IX-5
-     Report on Resettlement Plan for the Three Downstream Counties
IX-6
-     Yuangqu County Resetdement Plan (Based on the Houhe Reservoir)
IX-7
3Feasibility Study of Dryland Farm  Expanion for Mianchi
Resettlement IX-8
-     Ldnd Carrying Capacity Analysis of Xln'an and Mianchi Counties
IX-9
-     AgigdcltualS Development Backgrounds in Jiyuan, Mengjin and
Xln'an IM-10
-     Results of Household Surveys IX-li
-     Feasibility Study of Industial Re ement at County Level IX-12
-     A Review of Women in Development with Respect to the Proposed
Xaolangdi Proect (WID) IX-13
-     Milestones of Consultation During Resetdement Planning IX-14
-     Analysis Report on the Present Income Level in the Affected Areas
DC-15
Compensation Standards for Affected Populadon and IndustrW
Ilitutions IX-16
Study on Nonagricultural Resetdement Criteria IX-17
Feasibility Report on Typical Projects for Nonfarm Resettlement at
County Level IX-18
Feasibility Report on Iypical Projects for Typical Agricultural
Resettement IX-19
l  Mk  of stn        will a be lable to tbe pubc.



-     Brief Report on th  Grevances and Appeal Procedwres for
Relocatees D-20
-     Summary Of Reett     t Cost Estimate IX-21
A.2   Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Poject Brief -  vinmal Summay Volume
10, RPDI-YRCC & CIPM Joint Venture (September 1992)
A.3   Xiaolangdi Mulipurpose Proect Brief - Environment Main Report Vol 10,
RPDI-YRCC & CIPM Joint Venture (September 1992)
A.4   Xiadlangdi Re ent Project Bef - Envonment Impct Assessmen,
RPDI-YRCC & CIPM Joint Veture (Septmber 1992)
A.S   Xiaolangdi Mipurpose Prect - Resettlement Mas Vol Xm, RPDI-
YRCC & CIPM Joint Vetue (Setember 1992)
A.6 China: Yellow River Basin Investnwt Plamdng Study, Report No. 11146-
CHA, World Bank
A.7  Cbina Invluntary Re      nt Study, Report no. 11641-CHA, June 8,
1993
A.8  East Asia Region Report on Rement for the Bank-Wide Resettement
Review, December 1993, (Intemal Docment) World Bank
A.9   Xaolangdi Multupose Project Resetlent Summary Report, RPDI-
YRCC & CIPM Joint Venture (September 1992), Deember 1992
B.   Working Papers
B.1  XMaolangdi Mulpurpose Dam Project Nonaicultual Component, UNISO
B.V., Netherands, November 1993
B.2   Suppt Services for Reocte' Socia Adjustment, Zong Cheng Lin,
Cosultant, November 1993
B.3   Detailed Project Schedules, Appraisl Mission,- November 1993
B.4   Detailed Farm Models, Appail Mision, November 1993



na
I~~~~~~~ 



MAP SECTION



nternotona' Boundorles                                                 CHINA
)    Province Boundartes
i <  Chlnaf A             XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
Mongola                                  RESETLEMENT MACRO SITE LOCATION AND DAM SITES
Inner Mongola Plan    ' ,
A  Interior Basin      1       Fen Plain
n   ,t ',', - . *  ;"_
O.   _ " ' 4?                                                                        _
fft.   h   _WT,                                           .                                                    -. V-   -o
5.,  wr  f .ib    0*                                                                                                4
-Vw of .y m-    .P.
ft.*tWW~~~~~~~ atooe $MCAx an3as3  iou1.Lnag
41~~~
J4~~~~~~~~~~~~
i                              ..       |                                                           13. Lijiascia13
-'   --~~~~~~~- ~~Majoir Dam~s
zami k/aa .- -~               -
ZA                    1. rSanqiao      9. Liana
Wei plain            2. Wanpazhai    10. Bapauxia
Flooded Areas and Dams              3. Qikou        11. Izgyangpia
4. Lnmn         12. L)W
>   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~UDo*gping Lake Flood ))iYeriAQ. At"   Catehzeogo Am                             1.Ljai
AmPlo~dod if Dy*et Rh   ~     Blob,6. Sane  a   14. Dania
>                            J                                           7. Samhungong   15. <Kagwngiia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PWSPae   *Snhnog    5  igogi
Kmi                             MUwo ReSdamt Site        Plm4 Dam/Power niu   8. Yanguoxia    16. Daliushu
0  2  40-)          Yellow Rim Floodpiala



internationol Boundaries
-t   Province Boundaries            CChina                               hina: Xiaolangdi Resettlement Projct
Mongolia                                        Industrial Income (1989) & Resettlement Areas
YelwSea
/ -F 4             ..r^ -f                               nS#                                             g                     1 a, 
The boondo,ke~ cc/ars~                  /                                           o 1992-1994 (9.7 P2e                            -  4*n.
~~~~~~~n,hn an any,:                                                                                                   (2,4  Pcuos ']                 20 ,'(fO-  40
infwmot h te shown                                                                                                   F'1      400
4 s  '             on denasthic snct m np do not         1                                             a 1993-1996 (2t04 PLJOS)         }               -
an ud?rne5tw an thr e tla          7                    K-
The World Bank Gro.                 /                   R                             1997-2011 (135,2L Pa''O
I.  r aceplaliCO       h               o2D0                                                   Resettlement Areas                          >   So
boundaries.                        ~~~~~                           ~~0 2D 40  EDJ                        Eli(



lnternotionol Boundories                                         C       1(Hu 't:  Xi     cXaoK   i  7 rsWlWmCPi                        !     i
Province Boundaries
Agricultural Income (1989) & Resettlement Areas
Uow        (~~~~~~~nw o
Area Of Map
;t                                                                                                                            -  -~~~~\-- - -- - --  
1~~~~~~~~~~ - - - -t -, -, - - :- - - - 
1,  V z < 1~~1
::S~~~~~~~~~ -s "- '- - - - ._-:_.::_::_:: :::::::_.:- - -:: - ,, - -    -- - - -_ - - --
. . ''\...;.....       I
-    --     ---   -  -  -     .  .  . .  . .   ..  .  .   ..
/~~~~sau  ;f any tefttf,                                            ____-_________/_____\                                                                             1
_g4'-'-'~~~~~---o-----L--_{_y    - 
~~ A '"+--~~~~ _ g \ / \ RMB ~~~~~Per Cap&t 
n  v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   -   200 /tn  o
< \''' l f , 1 X S 1an any200-   40
\~~~~~te ihformaSan sown                                                                                 4192M   (9,   PRtm    1
$   )  %    t              o,nwt~an  hbs mep do not                                                                 *1993-1996(n,044 Prw)               F]            40-600g
> / % ~~~~~~,'r1oy udgment on the tegM                                                 KM                              1997-2011 (O3      ,2Z Petson)    8      0      0      -  8
\ 1    \   /~status of any tefftory,                /                                                                                                                             J
or acceptance ot such                             0         2                                 Rt                                                 >   800
boundaes. 



-  I_eProvince Boundaries                                               China: Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project
Population Density by County in Resettlement Areas
....    ...  ...  ...'    ---- --                                                         -
~~~                      /      ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ siiasi ~~~~~~~        --------
*  1992I2994 (9,970 Perons)        D-   10
* 1993-1996 (21,044 Person,)        Li]          400  -  200
C-                                                (                 Persons]00  -  800
o; X t g~ Ther intorrnaiovnd s co/ors - - -  /                                              Resettement Aeags              [  200 
 J \~~~~~o thdis map do not                                                                           K                                                                   914M  697 MlS   
/   )    /            ~~~~mpOy, on nthepar dofnt ,             S        )      !                                19931996 (21,044 Penro")                      4060p
Si   9     l             r~~~~~~he WoHd BaEr, Group, w                                                     
6_ \ F / e~~ny juegmcnt on the legal                                              Km                1997-2011 (,MQ2 Pe n)                              1M                  8 -
I_     I     \       / ~~~status of ony terrntofy,            /                     ,, 
Us I \ / or e~~at  ny endorsement ** _> 
. ._._   <    /  |  /   boundadereies.nc f5c0                                    20        400                    Reettlement Arma                                   >   8               r



