Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2605-0 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 2, 1994
Credit Number 2605-0 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through the Yellow River 
Water Conservancy Commission with the assistance of Henan Province and Shanxi Province 
(the Project Provinces); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the environmental management plan, 
dated October, 1993, as the same may be supplemented and amended from time to time 
with the approval of the Bank.
(b)
"MWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources, and any successor 
thereto.
(c)
"Project Implementation Agreements" means the agreement between MWR and 
Henan Province, dated October 22, 1993 and the agreement between MWR and Shanxi 
Province, dated October 20, 1993, for the implementation and counterpart funding of 
the Project, as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Implementation 
Agreements.
(d)
"Project Provinces" means Henan Province and Shanxi Province and their 
respective successors.
(e)
"Resettlement Criteria" means the criteria for resettlement and 
rehabilitation set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(f)
"Resettlement Plan" means the plan for the resettlement and 
rehabilitation of the approximately 181,000 people (approximately 171,000 people from 
the reservoir and approximately 9,940 from the dam site construction area) who will be 
resettled in four stages in the Project
Provinces as a result of the construction and operation of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose 
Dam Project as more particularly described in the Environmental Impact Assessment 
Executive Summary set out in the Project Brief dated February 1993 prepared for the 
Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project by the Reconnaissance Planning and Design 
Institute of YRCC under MWR in consultation with the CIPM Yellow River Joint Venture, 
as such plan shall be further developed and implemented in accordance with the 
Resettlement Criteria, with the concurrence of the Association, and the Resettlement 
Plan shall include the agreements made and to be made for the construction and 
reconstruction of residential and infrastructure facilities, for the compensation and 
resettlement of those being resettled in the Project Provinces, and for the 
reestablishment of the income and livelihoods of those resettled and of others 
affected by their resettlement, as the same may be supplemented and amended from time 
to time to implement the Resettlement Criteria.
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(h)
"Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project" means the project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for the Xiaolangdi 
Multipurpose Project, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Bank, and "Xiaolangdi Loan Agreement" means said Loan 
Agreement.
(i)
"YRCC" means Yellow River Conservancy Commission, a commission 
established within MWR to manage water resource management and flood control along the 
Yellow River.
(j)
"YRCCRO" means the resettlement office of YRCC, as maintained in 
accordance with paragraph D.1(a) of Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy nine million nine hundred thousand Special 
Page  3
Drawing Rights (SDR79,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2004 and ending April 1, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2014 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project through YRCCRO, and shall cause the Project Provinces to assist YRCCRO to 
carry out the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall provide, and shall cause 
the Project Provinces to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project through YRCCRO in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower and of the respective Project Provinces responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
Page  5
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
implement the Resettlement Plan in a manner acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
ensure that the coffer dam constructed under the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose 
Project is not closed unless the resettlement program under the Resettlement Plan 
remains synchronized with the construction program under Part A of the Xiaolangdi 
Multipurpose Project and, to that end, if
construction of the dam is progressing faster than the rate of construction progress 
anticipated in the Resettlement Plan by four months or more, the Borrower shall make 
revisions in the schedules for resettlement and construction, satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(c)
ensure that the water level of the dam constructed under the Xiaolangdi 
Multipurpose Project is not permitted to rise beyond 265 meters before the details of 
the resettlement arrangements proposed for those who are to be resettled in the last 
stage (between the year 2010-2011) under the Resettlement Plan have been provided to, 
and approved by, the Association.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower (acting through MWR) shall: (a) establish by 
December 31, 2000 and thereafter maintain a Reservoir Area Support Fund in an amount 
which is sufficient to provide minimum incomes to those who are resettled under the 
Project, or whose incomes or livelihood are adversely affected by the Project, and who 
are unable to achieve or to maintain their pre-Project income levels; and
(b)
operate such Fund in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, until such time as the Borrower (acting through MWR), with the 
concurrence of the Association, determines that potential beneficiaries are no longer 
likely to require Fund assistance.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any of the parties to the Project Implementation Agreements shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations set forth in such Agreements.
(b)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Xiaolangdi Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this Agreement; and
 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Xiaolangdi Loan 
Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing China
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                    Amount of the          % of
                                  Credit Allocated     Expenditures
                                    (Expressed in         to be
          Category                 SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)      Works
         (a) Housing construc-        17,790,000      60%
         tion under Part
         A.1 of the Project
         (b) Other works              19,600,000      60%
(2)      Goods
         (a) Vehicles                  2,190,000      100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
         (b) Other Goods              30,270,000      100% of local
                                                      expenditures (ex-
                                                      factory cost) and
                                                      75% of local ex-
                                                      penditures for
                                                      other items pro-
                                                      cured locally
(3)      Consultants' services         2,480,000      100%
(4)      Training                        730,000      100%
(5)      Environment management
         (services for reservoir
         clearing/cultural relics
         removal/public health)          800,000      20%
(6)       Unallocated                  6,040,000
          TOTAL                       79,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  8
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR7,260,000 on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1993.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works and services not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to resettle and improve 
the livelihoods of the approximately 154,000 people in the reservoir area who need to 
be resettled as a result of the construction and inundation up to the 265 meter level 
of the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam on the Yellow River in Henan Province and Shanxi 
Province and to minimize the effects of social adjustment of the resettlers and of 
their host communities following resettlement.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Residential and Infrastructure Reconstruction
 
1.
Constructing and equipping about 35,000 houses and establishing about 10 towns 
(with associated infrastructure and community services) in the Project Provinces to 
receive those people being resettled.
2.
Constructing about 1750 kilometers of new roads, about 630 kilometers 
transmission lines, communication lines, broadcasting facilities, water supply works, 
hydraulic stations and other infrastructure in the Project Provinces to better service 
the resettlement areas and constructing and equipping about 27 wharves around the dam 
reservoir, and acquisition of about 132 ferries.
3.
Constructing and equipping required to relocate about nine special purpose 
institutions and about seven special purpose community facilities. 
Part B:
Relocation
 
1.
Relocating about 154,000 people in about 35,000 households from the inundation 
area of the dam up to the 265 meter level to about 276 host sites in the Project 
Provinces.
2.
Providing logistic support for those being resettled, including moving costs, 
temporary shelter, food and medical services.
3.
Transporting all salvageable materials and personal belongings, and factory 
machinery and other goods to the resettlement sites. 
Part C:
Planning, Design, Institutional Support
 
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of YRCC and the Project Provinces to 
plan, design and implement the details of the proposed resettlement through the 
provision of training, technical assistance, offices, office equipment, vehicles, and 
consultants services.
2.
Carrying out further detailed planning and design work related to the proposed 
resettlement.
Part D:
Livelihood Development
 
Reestablishing the incomes and livelihood of those being resettled and ensuring 
that the incomes and livelihoods of those in host communities are not affected by 
Page  9
resettlement through:
1.
Agricultural improvements covering an area of about 11,100 hectares of which 
about 7,000 hectares will be irrigated including completion of the Houhe dam and 
irrigation scheme covering about 5,000 hectares, and a new river training and warping 
scheme to protect about 13,300 hectares and to create about 4,100 hectares of new land 
for resettlers with aquaculture, industries and orchards at Wenmengtan.
2.
Reestablishment of industries relocated as a result of the inundation of the 
reservoir for the Xiaolangdi dam and the establishment and expansion of about 85 
industries to provide new employment for about 20,000 people being resettled.
3.
Providing compensation to those who are relocated for assets acquired or lost as 
a result of the construction and inundation of the dam, and to those in host 
communities which receive those relocated for assets acquired or lost as a result of 
such resettlement.
*           *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more. 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A. hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association, except that housing construction costing up to an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $48,000,000, and the river training and warping works at Wenmengtan may 
be carried out by force account in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Page  10
2.
Items or groups of items for goods (excluding steel and vehicles) estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, and cement and building 
materials may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Items or groups of items of office and design equipment and instruments 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out 
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A.
Resettlement
 
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Provinces prepare the final 
resettlement program designs according to the Resettlement Plan.  The Reconnaissance 
Planning and Design Institute of YRCC must take part in and approve the final designs.  
The final resettlement site construction designs prepared by the Project Provinces 
shall be reviewed and approved by YRCCRO.
Page  11
2.
The Borrower shall, through YRCCRO: (a) continue to employ an independent 
monitoring institution acceptable to the Association to evaluate at least 
semi-annually the socioeconomic progress of those resettled under the Project and 
those in host communities who are affected by such resettlement; and
(b)
furnish promptly to the Association for comment the report of each such 
evaluation along with proposals for meeting Project targets in accordance with the 
Resettlement Plan if these are not being achieved.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain or shall cause to be maintained, and shall publicize 
or shall cause to be publicized, the availability of, grievance procedures to hear and 
determine fairly and in good faith, after taking into account the Resettlement 
Criteria, all complaints raised in relation to the implementation of the Resettlement 
Plan by those being resettled or by those in host communities who are adversely 
affected by the implementation of the Resettlement plan, and shall take all measures 
necessary to implement the determinations made under such grievance procedures.
Part B.
Environmental Management
 
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all activities undertaken for the purpose of 
carrying out of the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association, including the regulations and guidelines issued by 
the National Environmental  Protection Agency and the Provincial Environmental 
Protection Bureaus; and
(b)
implement the Environmental Management Plan in a manner acceptable to the 
Association, including all necessary measures to minimize and to mitigate any adverse 
environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the Project, such as emissions 
from relocated industries under Part D.2 of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, through YRCC: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association by 
December 15 in each year the detailed plan for implementation of the Environmental 
Management Plan in the next calendar year; and
(b)
maintain YRCC's environmental management office with competent staff in 
adequate numbers and with such responsibilities and functions acceptable to the 
Association as shall enable YRCC to manage, coordinate and monitor the implementation 
of the Environmental Management Plan.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) through YRCC, employ an international Environment and 
Resettlement Panel of independent experts with composition and functions satisfactory 
to the Association to conduct semiannual reviews of the implementation of the 
Resettlement Plan and the Environmental Management Plan and of the detailed 
resettlement and environmental management programs under such Plans;
(b)
furnish promptly to the Association the findings and recommendations for 
follow up action resulting from each such review; and
(c)
implement all such recommendations for follow-up action as are agreed 
with the Association.
Part C.
Livelihood Development
 
1.
The Borrower shall cause the Houhe dam and irrigation scheme and the river 
training and warping scheme at Wenmengtan under Part D.1 of the Project to continue to 
be carried out so that they are sufficiently completed by June 30, 1996 to permit the 
resettlement planned for 1997 under the Resettlement Plan to be carried out as 
planned.
2.
Without limiting the generality of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower (acting through MWR) shall: 
(a)
ensure that Shanxi Province shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the 
Association, cause the dam and related structures constructed under Houhe irrigation 
project under Part D.1 of the Project to be periodically inspected by the Borrower and 
by independent experts in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to 
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or 
Page  12
in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the same, which 
may endanger their safety;
(b)
to this end, propose to the Association appropriate arrangements for the 
Association's review no later than one year before the completion of the dam and 
related structures constructed under Houhe irrigation project; and
(c)
employ, or shall cause Shanxi Province to employ, a panel of independent 
experts, with composition and functions acceptable to the Association, to conduct 
periodic reviews of the Houhe Dam and its related structures no less frequently than 
the Association requires during final
engineering and construction to examine whether any new grounds for making changes in 
the design of the dam or technical specifications have become apparent, and shall 
promptly report the findings of each such panel review to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
 
(a)
all necessary governmental project approvals for industrial projects 
under Part D.2 of the Project are obtained prior to the approval of resettlement 
funding by the relevant resettlement office;
(b)
YRCC shall employ industrial consultants pursuant to the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to review on a semi-annual basis the 
proposed industrial projects under Part D.2 of the Project and furnish promptly to the 
Association the report of each such review along with the recommendations for follow 
up action; and
(c)
YRCC shall implement such follow up actions as are agreed with the 
Association.
Part D.
Project Implementation
 
1.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain the resettlement office of MWR, and vest it with the 
responsibility for the overall implementation of the Project, and the resettlement 
office of YRCC, and vest it with responsibility for daily implementation of the 
Project, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, and with 
competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
cause the Project Provinces to maintain their respective Provincial 
resettlement offices and prefectural and county resettlement offices, with functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
maintain its Central Coordinating Group and cause the Project Provinces 
to maintain their respective provincial leading groups with composition and functions 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall, through YRCC, by December 15 in each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Association the proposed financing plan and implementation program for 
Project activities in the next calendar year, as approved by the Borrower.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that all training and technical assistance under Part 
C of the Project, including local and overseas training, study tours and consultants' 
services are carried out in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower (including MWR) shall, not later than June 30, 1996, carry out a 
midterm review with the Association of the progress of and prospects for Project 
implementation.
5.
The Borrower (acting through MWR) shall establish by November 30, 1994 and 
thereafter maintain with a balance of not less than the equivalent of three months 
estimated non-Credit Project expenditures (initially thirty million RMB), a revolving 
fund to finance YRCCRO's expenditures for the Project which are to be financed out of 
the Borrower's (MWR's) budgetary resources, if there is a delay in the availability of 
such resources.
Page  13
6.
The Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces to assist YRCCRO to carry out the 
Project in accordance with this Agreement and the Project Implementation Agreements.
SCHEDULE 5
Resettlement Criteria for the Xiaolangdi Project
1.
The population subject to resettlement should not only maintain its current 
standard of living but it should also directly share in project benefits.
2.
The resettlement transition period should be minimized and adequate support for 
both social and economic development should be provided during the transition period.
3.
Resettlement should achieve the complete social and economic reestablishment of 
those dislocated, on a viable productive basis, through the creation of project-funded 
new industrial, service sector and agricultural employment activities.
4.
Insofar as changes of occupation are necessary, the replacement opportunities 
should properly recognize the social, communal, cultural, educational, and vocational 
profile of those affected, and any changes in economic activities should be introduced 
on a voluntary basis.
5.
Resettlement of the agricultural population should be land-based wherever 
possible.
6.
Land sharing with host villages should be based on the principle of mutual 
acceptance and should be planned so as to provide higher incomes (from all sources) 
for relocatees and hosts.
7.
The resettlement plans should have popular acceptance and the affected 
population should be consulted.
8.
Resettlement distances should be minimized and opportunities for resettling 
entire communities and natural groups should be provided.
9.
House and dwelling size allocation at new town and village sites should show 
improved standards and conditions.
10.
The resettlement plans for towns, villages and enterprises should minimize the 
loss of existing agricultural lands.
11.
The resettlement plans should have adequate institutional arrangements to ensure 
effective and timely implementation and adequate monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements.
12.
The financial resources to carry out the relocation and development proposals 
should be available when and where required.  Development plans should be prepared in 
concert with relocation plans.
13.
The impact of resettlement on the natural and socioeconomic host environment 
should be considered acceptable.
14.
Only those enterprises that will be economically viable should be considered for 
relocation and the compensation for the assets of the nonviable enterprises should be 
used to create new employment opportunities.
15.
Inundated items of infrastructure such as roads and bridges should be replaced 
so that the previous level of service is maintained or improved.
16.
If sharing farmlands does not result in achieving target incomes, some of the 
labor force should be offered non-agricultural employment opportunities.
17.
Family members of the employees of affected state enterprises and institutions 
can be employed in non-agricultural sectors on a voluntary basis.  The units of local 
governments, once compensated, shall be responsible for such employment arrangements.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit 
Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Page  15
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
