                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                          Report No.: 43061




                  PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                            PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA




           XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 2605-CHA)




                                     February 20, 2007




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)

1994 (Nov)       US$1.00          =Y 8.70         (Xiaolangdi Resettlement Approved)
2003 (DEC)       US$1.00          =Y 8.29         (Xiaolangdi Resettlement Completed)



Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS      -       Country Assistance Strategy
CRO      -       County Resettlement Office
EIA      -       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMO      -       Environment Management Office
EMP      -       Environmental Management Plan
EPB      -       Environment Protection Bureau
ERR      -       Economic Rate of Return
ESE      -       Environmental Supervising Engineer
HCWCF            Henan China Water Consulting Firm (Associated with NCWCHI)
HPRO -           Henan Provincial Resettlement Office
ICR      -       Implementation Completion Report
IDA      -       International Development Association
MOF      -       Ministry of Finance
MTR      -       Mid-term Review
MWR -            Ministry of Water Resources
NCWCHI           North China Water Conservancy and Hydropower Institute
NRCR -           National Research Centre For Resettlement
POE      -       Panel of Experts
RPDI -           Reconnaissance Planning And Design Institute
SAR      -       Staff Appraisal Report
VEO      -       Village Environmental Officer
SAR      -       Staff Appraisal Report
SPRO -           Shanxi Provincial Resettlement Office
YRCC -           Yellow River Conservancy Commission
YRCH -           Yellow River Central Hospital
YRCCRO           Yellow River Conservancy Commission Resettlement Office
YRWHDC           Yellow River Water Hydropower Development Corporation
YRWHDCRO YRWHDC Resettlement Office

LAND MEASUREMENT: 1 ha. = 15 mu

Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 -- December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                 :  Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)      :  Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division :  Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             :  Mr. George T. Keith Pitman

 IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                  iii


Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS....................................................................................................................V

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE..........................................................................................................V

PREFACE......................................................................................................................................VII

SUMMARY .....................................................................................................................................IX

1.    BACKGROUND ................................................................................................................. 1

      The Yellow River............................................................................................................... 1

      The Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project............................................................................. 1

      The Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project Area.................................................................... 1

2.    OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS................................................................................. 2

3.    IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................................................... 5

      Updated Resettlement Plan 1997.................................................................................... 6

4.    EVALUATION .................................................................................................................... 7

      Monitoring and Evaluation .............................................................................................. 7

         Relevance ................................................................................................................................10

         Efficacy.....................................................................................................................................13

         Efficiency..................................................................................................................................24

      Outcome .......................................................................................................................... 25

      Risks to Development Outcome ................................................................................... 26

      Bank Performance.......................................................................................................... 30

      Borrower Performance................................................................................................... 31

5.    DISCUSSION AND LESSONS LEARNED...................................................................... 34

ANNEX A. BASIC DATA SHEET ................................................................................................. 39


ANNEX B. RESETTLEMENT CRITERIA FOR THE XIAOLANGDI PROJECT........................... 43


ANNEX C. MAPS.......................................................................................................................... 45


ANNEX D. PROJECT-AFFECTED TOWNS, VILLAGES AND PEOPLE.................................... 49


ANNEX E. SOCIAL PRINCIPLES APPLIED THAT MITIGATED SOCIAL RISKS .................... 51


ANNEX F. RESETTLERS INCOMES 1994-2003......................................................................... 53


                                                      v


Principal Ratings
                                   ICR*                       ICR Review*                 PPAR


Outcome                          Satisfactory               Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory

Institutional                        High                   Substantial                    ------
Development
Impact**

Risk to                            ------                     ------                    Substantial
Development
Outcome

Sustainability***                Highly likely              Highly likely                  ------

Bank                             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance

Borrower                         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Performance

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1, 2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.


Key Staff Responsible
Project              Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                       Sector Director

Appraisal              Daniel Gunaratnam              Joseph Goldberg                 Nicholas Hope
Completion               Chaohua Zhang                  Mark D. Wilson                 Yukon Huang


                                              vii


Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Xiaolangdi
Resettlement Project in China.

        The Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project, estimated at appraisal to cost US$ 571.2
million, was approved in April 1994 for an IDA credit of $110 million. Total project
costs at completion were US$ 840.9 million. The project closed at the end of December
2003, having fully disbursed a year earlier.

        This report is based on the review of the respective Memoranda and
Recommendations of the President, Staff Appraisal Reports and Project Appraisal
Documents, credit and legal documents, project files at the World Bank's Headquarters,
Implementation Completion Reports, discussions with Bank staff in Washington and
Beijing and a field visit to the project in China. In addition the Yellow River Hydropower
Development Corporation summarized the status of the project to October 2006 in a
report entitled "Submission to IEG."

        An Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) mission visited China in October and
November 2006 to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the
Government, implementing agencies and beneficiaries that included resettlers,
resettlement officials and other officials in the project area. In addition IEG discussed
resettlement policies in China and elsewhere with Chinese officials and bank staff. The
cooperation and assistance of central government officials, management and staff of
implementing agencies, provincial, county and township officials, project beneficiaries
and other stakeholders are gratefully acknowledged.

        This project was selected for assessment for two reasons. Firstly, to support a
country case study report on the World Bank Group's environmental effectiveness in
China as part of an ongoing IEG Review of Environmental Performance of the World
Bank Group. This project is one of five projects assessed under the theme of "Water
Resources Management and Social/Resettlement Aspects." Secondly, it will inform a
future IEG evaluation of the Bank's Safeguard Policies.

        Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the
relevant government officials and agencies for their review and comments, but none was
received.


                                               ix


Summary

        The 1994 Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project was one of three Bank-supported
projects relating to the US$ 4.5 billion Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project on the Yellow
River in Henan Province. Two IBRD loans, which totaled US$ 890 million, were devoted
to the construction and operation of the multipurpose (flood, sediment, ice and drought
management and hydropower) Xiaolangdi Dam, as well as institutional support, training
and environmental management. The IDA credit of US$110 million was the Bank's first
stand-alone resettlement project associated with a major infrastructure investment. The
specific objectives of the project were to (a) resettle and improve the livelihoods of
approximately 154,000 people in the reservoir area in the 182 administrative villages and
11 towns to be displaced by the dam and reservoir and (b) minimize the effects of social
adjustment of the resettlers and of their host communities following resettlement. In
addition to project funds, the Xiaolangdi hydropower utility agreed to establish a 10-year
post-resettlement program funded from hydropower revenues.

        Project implementation was highly satisfactory. The Resettlement Office of the
Yellow River Water Hydropower Development Corporation successfully coordinated the
overall project while the Resettlement Offices of Henan and Shanxi Provinces
successfully implemented the project at county, municipality and township levels through
resettlement offices established in the inundation and host areas. Following the concept
of "putting people first," site selection, design and construction were carried out through
a participatory process engaging both resettlers and host communities. Resettlers were to
be moved in four phases linked to the progress of dam construction: the people located at
the dam site and those within three horizontal bands corresponding to inundation stages
as the reservoir was filled. Initially the IDA project officially covered the first two of the
three resettlement groups who lost their land and property through inundation in the
period 1998-2001. Shortly after effectiveness, however, the project undertook a re-survey
of the reservoir area and revised the population and cost estimates to include resettlers in
all three phases of inundation and people previously overlooked when initial village
boundaries were drawn. This enlarged the number of resettlers by more then 18,000 and
project costs increased because of updated unit costs and greater than anticipated
compensation requirements. Ultimately, the project affected 184,080 resettlers in 227
administrative villages and 11 towns, and 545,000 people in 397 host communities spread
over 13 counties in Henan and Shanxi Provinces. As a result, the project closed at the end
of 2003 with a total cost of US$ 841 million, 47 percent higher than the appraisal
estimate of US$ 571 million.

        The project fully achieved its first objective to resettle the project-affected people.
The project was very successful in moving a huge number of people to new village sites
created on land relinquished by host communities through agreements between the
resettlers and host communities. The project was also noteworthy in the priority it gave to
restoring and improving the incomes of resettlers and host communities. The original
plan to finance new industrial development to create non-farm jobs was cancelled
because of adverse experience of such government-planned efforts elsewhere in China
and changed macro-economic conditions. Instead a land and agriculture-based strategy

                                                x


was successfully employed. In addition an independent monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) program tracked village-level progress and household income and expenditures
and articulated the attitudes and problems of resettlers and host community members
during the implementation of the project.

        The second objective, to minimize the effects of social adjustment of the resettlers
and host communities, was substantially achieved with some shortcomings. New and
improved housing, infrastructure and access to public services were substantially
improved but it is unclear how far they benefited also from China's own regional and
municipal development programs unconnected with the project. By the time of credit
closure at end-2003, it was estimated that 70 percent of the resettlers had restored or
increased their incomes and most of the remainder were within 80 percent of previous
income levels; at that time, host communities had exceeded prior incomes by at least 10
percent. Based on the findings from the M&E program during project implementation it
typically takes households four years after relocation to reestablish pre-project incomes.
At the end of the project IEG estimate that about 43,726people resettled after 2000 were
still undergoing adjustment to their new economic and social order and had reduced their
incomes compared with pre-project levels. This includes 3,376 people who were
relocated after 2003.

        The fate of these latter resettlers is unclear because the M&E program designed
by the project was terminated at project closure in 2003, and comparable income data
since then are unavailable. In addition, the Hydropower utility's 10-year post-
resettlement fund to invest in new livelihood activities and resolve adjustment problems
failed to live up to expectations because initial hydropower revenues were less than
expected. Although this fund was replaced in 2006 by a national post-resettlement
program aimed at providing post-resettlement support for a longer period, and at a higher
level than the Xiaolangdi fund, it is too early to evaluate its effectiveness for Xiaolangdi.
Chinese local authorities continue routine socio-economic surveys as part of national
M&E but it was not possible to isolate Xiaolangdi resettlers within their survey results.

        Project outcome is rated as moderately satisfactory. Project design and consistent
adherence to Chinese and Bank resettlement policies during implementation successfully
mitigated the principal risks associated with resettlement programs. Moreover, a number
of innovative features of the Xiaolangdi project that contributed significantly to its
success were incorporated in new national resettlement regulations that went into effect
in 2006. The development element, however, is yet to be fully realized. The lack of
ongoing monitoring makes it hard to identify locations where additional development
investment is needed to fully restore livelihoods and incomes. Thus risk to development
outcomes is rated substantial.

        Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank maintained the same highly
qualified core team throughout the project period, providing continuity and a clear focus
on the quality of physical works, the participatory approach and income impacts.
Supervision gave priority to reducing the human cost of resettlement on resettlers and
host communities and to quickly restoring and increasing livelihoods. Government
performance is rated satisfactory with some shortcomings. While implementation was
exemplary in many ways, people were moved to two major resettlement sites before the

                                               xi


irrigation network and land improvements were completed, and the government failed to
maintain the independent socio-economic monitoring program after credit closure.

Eight main lessons emerge from the evaluation:
        Finance resettlement independently. Successful resettlement must be adequately
        funded and funding must be reliable, as both can be jeopardized if the
        resettlement budget competes with the construction budget in a project, especially
        if cost of either is higher than anticipated.
        Do not move people prematurely. Resettlement programs must ensure that people
        can regain control of their lives immediately, thus no one should be moved until
        resettlement sites are fully constructed and outfitted and the means for livelihood
        are in place.
        Inform fully and get feedback. Information and transparency were critical for
        gaining trust and obtaining ownership, in both the overall program and the
        resettler-host community agreements, which set the foundation for positive long-
        term relationships.
        Prepare for both resettlement and development. Achieving successful
        resettlement with real development requires at least two different sets of skills and
        competencies, which an implementing agency should have available from the
        beginning.
        Update, Update, Update. The scope and budget of a resettlement and
        development program needs to be updated periodically to encompass the
        dynamism of communities and ensure that adequate funding is available to meet
        the legitimate, changing needs of affected people
        Follow up, as relocation is only the start. Under the best of circumstances full
        readjustment can take years and some income restoration and improvement
        strategies will fail. Mechanisms should be in place after resettlement to address
        readjustment problems and plan development initiatives. It is especially important
        to continue independent monitoring to follow progress, spot problems and
        highlight priority areas for development support, for several years following
        resettlement.
        Arrange financing for post-project M&E and supervision before closing. The
        Bank needs to find ways to allocate funds to allow continued supervision of
        projects that have critical and unresolved safeguard issues.
        Great care needs to be given to establish a project counterfactual to establish
        socially equitable levels of income restoration. The before and after approach
        used by the project did not make allowances for the general improvements in
        welfare and incomes in areas unaffected by the project.




                                                                         Vinod Thomas
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                          Evaluations


                                                   1


 1. Background

The Yellow River

1.1      The Yellow River is the second longest watercourse in China and traverses nine
provinces. The catchment area accounts for 7 percent of China's total land area and
supports the agriculture of 130 million people on a cultivated area of 13 million hectares.
Some of the most fertile and densely populated lands (2 million ha) in China are in the
lower reaches of the Yellow River. Historically, floods in the lower reaches have brought
severe destruction to farmlands and cities, killing thousands of people and causing
billions of dollars of damage. At appraisal, about 103 million people were at risk of
severe flood damage and the lives of as many as one to three percent of the population
would be in jeopardy if there were a major flood.1 The flooding is exacerbated by soil
erosion in the mid-reaches of the river. This has resulted in enormous quantities of
sediment (1.6 billion m3 per year) being washed into the river and transported
downstream. About one quarter of the sediment has been deposited in the lower reaches,
causing the riverbed to rise between three and ten meters higher than the surrounding
ground. Over several centuries, huge investments were made in levees to protect the
lower reaches. At the time of appraisal about US$ 70 million was needed annually to
maintain the levees, and US$ 2 billion was needed every decade to raise their crests to
ensure adequate freeboard above the floodplain.

The Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project

1.2      Despite the earlier huge investment in levees, they were inadequate to protect
fully the 103 million people, eight large cities and industries, including major oilfields.
Moreover, the lack of river regulation in the lower reaches led to frequent droughts,
erratic irrigation and drinking water supplies, and constrained industrial production. The
Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project was the centerpiece of a major program to provide flood
and ice-jam protection, prevent silting of the lower reaches of the river and maintain
annual minimum river flows. Construction of the dam and the 130 km long reservoir was
expected to force the relocation of about 180,000 people from the dam site and the
reservoir area.

The Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project Area

1.3      The Xiaolangdi dam site is located on the Yellow River in Henan Province 40 km
north of Luoyang City. The reservoir area at the 275 m level extends upstream for 130
km. The total area inundated is 272 km2, including the original water surface of the
Yellow River. The broader reservoir region includes three counties in Shaanxi Province
and five counties in Henan Province.




1. This chapter was drawn from the World Bank SAR (Rpt. 12527, March 1994) and the ICR (Rpt. 29174,
June 2004) for the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project.

                                                       2


1.4      The reservoir region of eight affected counties had a 1992 population of 2.8
million and an annual population growth rate of 1 percent for the period 1982-1992.
Population density was 264 persons/km2. In 1992, about one third of the population was
14 years of age and younger; 63 percent was in the 15-65 age range; and 4 percent 65
years and older. The male/female ratio was 52/48. Most of the population was rural ­ 75
percent in Yuanqu county and 96 percent in Xiaxian county. Average household size was
4.4 persons with a labor force ratio of 44 percent. Eighty percent of the regional
population was literate. The reservoir was to inundate 173 villages, 11 government
towns, 252 industrial and mining enterprises, 250 commercial enterprises, 12 power
stations, 267 irrigation pumps, 658 km of irrigation canals, 688 km of roads and 548 km
of communications lines. Per capita net incomes of the rural population of the inundation
zone in 1993 averaged Y 650, with a range between Y 423/capita in Mianchi to Y
900/capita in Yuanqu.

1.5      About 10 percent of the households derived their total income from agriculture;
80 percent from mixed agricultural and nonfarm activities. The households with the
highest incomes relied on both agriculture and full-time wage employment in an
enterprise. The prevailing poverty in much of the project area was due to a poor
agricultural resource base, remoteness, the lack of off-farm employment opportunities
and limited infrastructure, such as roads, communications, electricity and water supply
systems.

 2. Objectives and Components

2.1      The Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project was responsible for relocating people living
within the reservoir area and enabling them, and people in their host communities, to
restore their incomes. Resettlement is normally a component within the overall dam
investment project, and is generally given secondary importance. Xiaolangdi was IDA's
first stand-alone resettlement project associated with a major dam, as well as the Bank's
largest resettlement undertaking in China. The resettlement was planned to take place in
four phases, the dam site and three phases defined by the height of the surface water in
the reservoir. The IDA project targeted Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the reservoir area, about
154,000 resettlers and roughly 300,000 people in affected host communities (Table 1.)

         Table 1: Estimated Relocation Period and Population

                                                                               Population
              Group             Reservoir        Timetable                 Directly    Total to Move*
                                   Level                                  Affected

         Dam Site                                1992-1994                    9,556             9,556
         Phase 1                To 180 m.        1995-1998                   20,506            21,690
         Phase 2                180-265 m.       1998-2001                 115,733            130,612
         Phase 3                265-275 m.       2010-2011                   13,053            17,924
         State Workers                                                          880               880
         Total**                                                           159,728            180,662
         ** The total moved is larger than those directly affected in order to maintain communities.
         ** The total assisted by IDA was estimated to be 152,302. At appraisal this was rounded up to
         154,000 (SAR, paras 2.4 and 3.38).

                                               3


2.2     The overall goal of the project was to achieve the complete social and economic
reestablishment of the dislocated population, on a sustainable productive basis, through
the creation of new industrial, agricultural and service sector employment and activities.
The specific objectives of the project were to assist the Borrower: (a) to resettle and
improve the livelihoods of approximately 154,000 people in the reservoir area who need
to be resettled as a result of the construction and inundation up to the 265 meter level of
the Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam; and (b) to minimize the effects of social adjustment of
the resettlers and of their host communities following resettlement.

2.3     There were four main components and five additional activities embedded in the
project, only one of which (environmental management) was a separate line item in the
budget (Table 2). The Components were as follows:

        Planning, Design and Institutional Support. Potential resettlement sites were
        identified prior to appraisal, but final plans and designs were prepared on a rolling
        basis once resettlers and host communities agreed on specific sites.
        Residential and Infrastructure Reconstruction for Villages and Towns. New
        towns and villages were to be constructed, complete with infrastructure,
        communications and public facilities; resettlers constructed their own homes
        individually or collectively. This was estimated to include 154,000 people in
        35,000 households, 12 towns (township centers), 182 villages, over 1,000 km of
        roads, 2,400 km of power lines, 777 km of communication lines, 229 schools and
        252 clinics.
        Transfer of Resettlers. Families were to be transported to new locations with all
        of their belongings and salvageable materials from their abandoned residences
        and given allowances for lost wages and medical costs.
        Livelihood Development. This was to consist of reconstructing 824 enterprises;
        reclassifying people who sought and obtained non-farm employment; providing
        farmers with improved land (estimated 13,700 ha in total, at an average of 0.08 ha
        or 1.2 mu per person), and training; and funding village employment-generation
        initiatives.

2.4     The following "Activities" were also basic to the project design:

        Social Adjustment. This comprised a number of efforts to ease the transition for
        resettlers and host communities, ranging from farming support and non-farm
        employment assistance to arranging essential services in the resettlement areas
        and facilitating positive interactions between resettlers and host community
        residents. A post-resettlement support fund was to be established from a portion
        of the income from Xiaolangdi hydropower to provide follow-up support to poor
        villages and provide capital for village-level livelihood activities. The State
        Council approved a level of 300 yuan (about US$ 34) per capita per year for 10
        years for Xiaolangdi resettlers.
        Consultation, Participation and Grievance Redress. The planning and design
        process was designed to be participatory, engaging both resettlers and their host
        communities and culminating in an agreement between a resettler village and the
        host community. Resettlers were to be engaged in conducting inventories,
        designing sites and developing livelihood programs. Explicit grievance

                                                        4


          procedures were to record complaints and keep track of their status. Field
          personnel were to be responsible for resolving issues or raising them up the
          hierarchy.
          Gender and Vulnerable Groups. Women were to participate in all phases of the
          project, including receiving training. All resettlement villages were to have easy
          access to schools and health services. Special funding would enable the
          vulnerable people--elderly, widowed, disabled, households without someone in
          the active labor force and the extremely poor--to be relieved of the burden of
          managing house construction.
          Environmental Management. Environmental elements ranged from monitoring
          drinking water quality in resettlement and host areas, to incorporating adequate
          provisions in site designs to manage wastewater and solid waste, as well as
          drainage. In addition, public health monitoring was built into the project, as well
          as monitoring industrial pollution and the environmental impact on host
          communities. Clearing of the reservoir area also fell under this activity.
          Preservation of Cultural Property. Early in project development, teams of
          provincial and national specialists made an inventory of culturally and historically
          significant sites. In coordination with the resettlement program, the sites were to
          be mapped and documented, and either excavated, relocated, modeled or
          otherwise treated, depending on their significance.

Table 2: Project Objectives, Components and Costs

     Objectives                          Components                            Costs             Planned
                                                                           (US$ millions)        (percent)

1. Resettle and            Resettlement                                Planned       Actual
improve livelihoods
of approximately           Planning and Design                             11.7         44.1         376
154,000 people             Residential and Infrastructure
                           Construction                                   292.9       483.2          165
                           Transfer of Relocatees                           7.3          9.5         130
                           Livelihood Development                         257.1       295.7          115
2. Minimize effects        a)       Wenmengtan*                            47.1         67.7         150
of social adjustment       b)       Houhe Dam and Irrigation**             15.4         24.7         160
on resettlers and          c)       Agricultural & Production
host communities           Development                                      9.2       198.2          215
                           d)       Industrial development***             172.2            0           0
                           e)       Monitoring and Social
                           Development                                     10.4          5.1          49
                           Environmental Management                         3.5          5.1         240
                           Total                                          571.2       840.9          147

* River training works to protect flood-prone farmland to resettle 42,000 people.
** Dam (74.5 m high) and irrigation works to make 1,000 ha of irrigated land available for Xiaolangdi
resettlers and others.
*** The industrial component was cancelled because it was not viable. The development cost coming
mainly from land compensation went into the land-and-agriculture-based resettlement programs. As a
result, the cost in d) is included in c).

2.5       The project introduced four new elements to Chinese resettlement programs:

                                                   5


        Independent design and construction supervision, for quality control in design,
        construction and land development;
        Independent socio-economic monitoring,2 to assess progress from the perspective
        of resettlers and host communities; to measure impacts in incomes, household
        expenditures; to give voice to resettlers; and to give all institutions associated with
        the project a measurement of the impact on different economic groups and a
        systematic way to assess effectiveness;
        Environmental monitoring and the appointment of village environment officers to
        establish and maintain health and safety standards in affected areas; and
        Public health monitoring, to monitor the impacts of resettlement on individuals
        and communities.

2.7     Resettlement criteria for the Xiaolangdi Project spelled out the principles to apply
in the design and implementation of resettlement plans. The criteria cover topics from the
objectives of resettlement to the characteristics of resettlement sites and housing,
institutional arrangements, host community participation and benefits and income
restoration parameters, among other things. The criteria essentially embody the basic
principles of OP/BP 4.12, offering clear guidance to resettlement planners and
implementers. (See Annex B).

 3. Implementation

3.1     The project was implemented through a management model described as
"leadership of the Ministry of Water Resources, management by the project owner,
provinces contracted for implementation, and county as the basic unit for
implementation." As owner, the Yellow River Water and Hydropower Development
Corporation (YHWHDC) was responsible for managing the resettlement through its
resettlement office. Henan and Shanxi provinces, and all affected counties, cities and
townships also established resettlement offices responsible for implementation in their
respective administrations. During the peak period, the implementing agencies had a total
of 1,505 resettlement staff working on the project.

3.2     Three technical entities also had significant roles. The Yellow River
Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute (RPDI) was responsible for resettlement
design and worked throughout the implementation process to develop site specific plans
in consultation with resettlers and their local government officials. The Yellow River
Engineering Consulting and Supervision Company was hired to supervise
implementation and established six supervision offices in the project area. Finally, The
North China Water Conservancy and Hydropower Institute was given responsibility for
an independent socio-economic monitoring program, producing comprehensive biannual
reports based on surveys, group interviews and field observation. The environment
department of the RPDI supervised environmental aspects of the project, including public



2 In discussions with MWR and resettlement officials at different levels, IEG was told that independent
M&E was unique to Xiaolangdi, but it was actually introduced in the Shuikou Project, Recent Experience
with Involuntary Resettlement, China--Shuikou (and Yantan), OED Report No. 17539, 1998.

                                                      6


health monitoring, which was carried out by the Yellow River Central Hospital. An
international panel of experts, whose composition changed over time, met 12 times
between 1994 and late 2003.


Updated Resettlement Plan 1997

3.3      The preliminary resettlement plan for Xiaolangdi was prepared between 1986 and
1991, so one of the first major tasks of the project was to carry out a new inventory and
census. This was completed in 1996, after which the plan was revised to increase the
number of villages and population affected, as well as prices. The revised plan moved
forward the schedule for Phase 3 resettlement from 2010-2011 to 2002-2004. The total
estimated population of Phases 1-3 rose to 184,080, in addition to the 11,652 people at
the dam site who had already moved by 1994. This included 779 people and 190 families
classified as vulnerable in Phases I and II. The revised plan raised the number of affected
resettler villages to 227 and raised the estimates of host population to 545,000 in 397
communities. Accordingly, the budget increased by 47 percent to US$ 840.9 million. The
new budget was approved only in 1998, which slowed down the overall resettlement
process.3

3.4      In the revised scope of the resettlement activities cause a revision of the project
objective to include all those people below reservoir water level elevation 275 m instead
of the 265 m originally specified. This revision was implicitly read into the project
objectives without formal approval of the Board.

3.5      At project closing, virtually all of the construction was completed. Twelve towns
and 227 villages and houses had been constructed for 47,012 resettler families, as well as
2,665 km of roads, 2,154 km of power lines, 1,886 km of communications lines and 317
schools, 667 clinics and 80 bridges. Approximately 1,500 people remained to move,
however.

3.6      The 1995-1996 census and inventory and the decision to drop the industrial
development component4 raised the land requirement significantly, as reflected in the
increase of the affected host population from 300,000 to 545,000 and the number of
affected host villages grew to 397. At project completion in 2004, seventy-five percent of
the villages had met the target of providing 1.2 mu per capita or had established
alternative income generating activities to offset the land shortage.

3.7      The post-resettlement fund, expected to provide 60 million yuan per year, had
received less than 30 million from Xiaolangdi hydropower by the end of 2002 due to
lower than expected generation of electricity.




3 To illustrate the slow-down, a total of 8,100 people were resettled in 1997, compared to 22,776 in 1996
and 16,347 in 1008 (See table C2).
4 The first meeting of the International Environment and Resettlement Panel of Experts, July, 1994,
assessed the industrial component to be too risky for affected persons and recommended that it be dropped.

                                                     7


3.8      At project closing, the government agreed to complete the resettlement program,
meet land allocation requirements and continue monitoring the incomes and status of
resettlers and host communities. The government also agreed to maintain the provincial
and county resettlement offices to provide support to the villages and manage the post-
resettlement fund. IEG found that the resettlement offices remain open but with reduced
staffing commensurate with ongoing responsibilities.

3.9      The independent monitoring program filed its last report at the end of 2003 and
the program was terminated. Consequently, except on the village level, there is no up-to-
date repository of data relating to land allocation and income restoration relating to the
project. While some of the socio-economic indicators introduced by the project are
routinely monitored by China's own socio-economic evaluation system, many do not
follow the same sampling protocols, and identification of Xiaolangdi households and
their systematic follow-up is thus very difficult.

 4. Evaluation

Monitoring and Evaluation

4.1      Design. The monitoring and evaluation program was developed with the
assistance of Bank staff, in close collaboration with the implementing institution. The
North China Water Conservancy and Hydropower Institute, through its Henan China
Water Consulting Firm (HCWCF), implemented the program, following a regular six-
month schedule of visits to a broad sample of households, both affected persons and host
community members. A panel consisting of 1,538 households from 133 resettler villages
and 206 households from 22 host villages kept income and expenditure data to compare
with baseline data gathered prior to resettlement in 2004. The panel was expanded as
subsequent villages were moved.5 The baseline data for the dam site population was the
1992 census and inventory, while the baseline for the reservoir population was the 1995-
96 survey. Household data were monitored periodically and collected, analyzed and
reported every six months.

4.2      The monitoring program was not designed to support an analysis of the
counterfactual. This would have been possible if the household samples had included a
group of people remaining near the reservoir (for resettlers) or in randomly selected
communities with similar characteristics (propensity sampling) and of people in
unaffected villages near the host communities (for hosts). However, this was not done.
Instead the M&E design includes two major samples--resettlers and host community
residents--which were assessed separately before and after the project. The data show
that one group (resettlers) is improving income status, albeit with great annual



5 Combined with dam site and Phase 3 villages, full-scale monitoring included a total sample of 2292
families in 206 resettler and host villages. The sample contained sub-samples of high, medium and low
income households, respectively, in each village. Final M&E Report, p. 10. Unfortunately, the households
were surveyed before moving and three years thereafter, before the final 2003 survey, leaving data gaps
that limit the analysis of adjustment patterns.

                                                    8


fluctuations, and one group (host residents) essentially restored or increased incomes by
the end of the project. What the data do not show, however, is how the resettlers' final
incomes compare with those who remained behind near the reservoir area or how the
incomes of host residents compare with those of people in neighboring villages who did
not relinquish land to resettlers.

4.3     The M&E thus measured the "with project" situation along two major
dimensions--resettlement itself, which is socially and economically disruptive, and
income restoration (development) initiatives--which would be hard to differentiate
analytically. The basic questions to answer in resettlement are as follows.

· Do people regain or increase their incomes?
· If not, what factors constrain them?
· How long does restoration take in most villages?
· What are standard patterns of adjustment and how can problem sites be identified to
    target remedial interventions?


4.4     The relative influence of non-project factors, such as the overall economy, is
important for year-to-year analysis, but measuring the absolute status of the affected
people is critical. The Xiaolangdi independent monitoring program focused on project
implementation (infrastructure, housing, utilities, media access) school attendance,
income and expenditure impact, and highlighting problems identified by affected people.
Although there was sufficient field presence and capability to undertake the more in-
depth analysis of adjustment that would be needed to make the best use of the post-
resettlement fund, the Institute was not given the mandate. M&E did not go the extra step
that would have been required to understand resettlement dynamics or to establish the
impact of resettlement within a broader context. This constitutes the loss of a major
opportunity to understand resettlement processes from the point of view of resettlers and
to showcase the formidable achievements of the project more substantively. Given the
lack of realistic counterfactual M&E Design is rated modest.

Implementation.

4.5     The Bank insisted on including an independent M&E program in the project
despite the reluctance of counterparts.6 Supervision missions regularly coached institute
staff and the quality of reports constantly improved. Over time, project management
recognized the practical, constructive approach of the Institute and utilized the
recommendations to strengthen implementation and mitigate shortcomings. Similarly,
the regular reports established a quantitative and qualitative background for joint


6 Apparently, the first independent resettlement monitoring program in China was for the Shuikou Dam,
which was considered to be one of the factors of success for the project. Independent monitoring
consistently estimated post-resettlement incomes as 10 percent lower than official statistics. Recent
Experience with Involuntary Resettlement China--Shuikou (and Yantan), 1998, OED, Report No. 17539
pp 18-19; and summarized in Fuggle and Smith, "Experience with Dams in Water and Energy Resource
Development in the People's Republic of China," contributing paper for the World Commission on Dams,
2000, pp. 24-26.

                                               9


supervision missions. In short, the M&E program not only was carried out as planned,
but also was actually used as a management tool to a degree seldom attained in Bank
projects.

4.6     Trained enumerators, including staff of the institute and local collaborators,
worked with the sample households and also gathered data from project and village
databases, surveys, focus groups and informal discussions with resettlers, host residents
and officials throughout the project area. Regular monitoring reports covered a range of
issues from the allocation and disbursement of resettlement funds and compensation to
livelihood activities, relocation, living standard restoration (resettler and host
populations), social adjustment and the status of vulnerable groups and women.

4.7     The Institute reported regularly on the status of each resettlement village and
reported income and expenditure data of a sample of households in 133 resettlement
villages and 22 host villages. The reports also covered a range of other issues from
satisfaction with consultation and decision-making arrangements to the size and quality
of allocated lands, infrastructure, educational enrollment and the status of women.

4.8     The Institute had household level data for each affected family and community
that enabled it to analyze the status of households as well as villages, and generalize
beyond the sample population. The village level data--infrastructure, facilities,
amenities--captured outputs; household income data measured outcomes; and household
expenditure data served as a proxy measure for impacts and standard of living. Project
inputs in host villages consisted of funds to compensate for the land relinquished for
resettlers, which were used for income restoration investments. Outcome (household
income) and standard of living (household expenditure) data were gathered in a sample of
host communities to measure changes there. On its own initiative and its own budget, the
Institute conducted additional studies on specific topics, such as traditional herb
production, to help turn promising income generation ideas into viable project initiatives.
This helped to address issues that were not planned or budgeted. The M&E system thus
succeeded at giving project managers useful annual snapshots of income status and
specific implementation deficiencies.

4.9     Household income data was collected in each sample village a maximum of 5
times: the year before relocation, three successive years after the year of relocation, and
in 2003. The annual data show that resettler households in many villages experienced
large variations in their annual incomes. The lack of continuity in the data set is a
significant weakness in the M&E program. The sampling plan appears to have been
based on the assumption that the transition to full income restoration would occur within
three years, which proved to be an unrealistic assumption. The limitation also means that
the M&E approach would have had little value for tracking the impact of the post-
resettlement fund, without modification. Implementation of M&E is rated substantial
but with some shortcomings.

4.10    M&E Utilization. All parties--Bank staff, MWR, YRCCRO and Provincial
Resettlement Officers--informed IEG that the monitoring program was very effective as
a practical, sympathetic voice of the people, which improved in quality and utility over
time. However, it was output rather than outcome focused. The independent

                                              10


monitoring reports contained much useful data, but the bottom line consistently focused
on the achievement of project objectives, issues that needed to be addressed, based on
direct inputs and informed observation, and practical recommendations to help
management address the issues that were highlighted. Each report also reviewed the
status of actions recommended in previous reports. IEG reviewed monitoring reports and
confirmed the general assessment that specific recommendations were useful and
practical, although some of the optimistic conclusions regarding income restoration
seemed to gloss over very mixed results.

4.11    One other element of the M&E program deserves special mention--public health
monitoring. The RPDI Environment Department regularly gathered and analyzed public
health statistics on the village level to compare pre-and post resettlement health
indicators. The data demonstrated that, contrary to the experience in earlier resettlement
programs, community-level health improved after resettlement--how much that can be
attributed to the project (as against China's own development efforts) is uncertain.

4.12    IEG was unable to determine why M&E program was terminated after project
closure, despite the client's assurance that it would continue. Four factors may account
for the termination. First, village administrations are responsible for livelihoods and keep
their own records for tax and other purposes. Consequently, the owner and other
authorities may have lost interest in ongoing documentation, although the Henan
Provincial Resettlement Office says the monitoring will resume when the new post-
resettlement program goes into effect. Second, despite assurances that M&E would
continue, it is not clear if any office was given the responsibility or the budget to manage
the contract, thus the program may have ended by default. Third, M&E reports
systematically identified problems and shortcomings and officials may have decided such
information was not needed once the physical resettlement investments were completed.
To illustrate this point, IEG found resettlement officials at all levels to be much more
conversant about inputs--infrastructure, livelihood programs, and the like--than about
outcomes. Finally, in discussions, M&E is described as a "project activity" and, like
Bank supervision, an activity that is expected to conclude at the end of the project. The
frequency with which this occurs in most Bank projects suggests that it is a Bank
problem, even more than a client problem. Despite institutional recognition that
supervision and M&E are needed after resettlement, the Bank has yet to develop
mechanisms to do so by committing resources for ongoing supervision or funding
ongoing M&E directly or through the client. Consequently, the shortcomings in
Xiaolangdi mirror constantly-repeated Bank experience.

4.13    While M&E utilization to improve management of resettlement was high during
the life of the project, failure to agree M&E post-project and the negligible rating for this
phase lowers the overall rating for utilization to modest. Given the rating for design as
modest, and the qualified rating for implementation as substantial and the rating of
modest for utilization to improve outputs rather than outcomes, overall rating of
M&E is modest.

RELEVANCE

4.14    Relevance is rated as High. The Xiaolangdi Project set new resettlement
standards in China to demonstrate that conscientious application of existing laws and

                                                    11


regulations could produce a satisfactory outcome. In the mid-1980s GOC reported that at
least one-third of the 10 million people previously subject to involuntary relocation due
to reservoir development still lived in poverty awaiting successful settlement.7 That
estimate applied only to those who had been moved and did not take into account the fate
of host populations who were forced to share their existing land and other resources with
the relocatees. These figures clearly indicated that people forced to relocate were at great
risk of poverty. Financial allocations were insufficient in a large number of cases.
Compensation payments set in the early 1980s often had no provisions for inflation.
Most problems resulted from inadequate resettlement planning and the failure to provide
relocatees with an adequate income-earning potential. One fundamental problem with
involuntary resettlement, particularly before the mid-1980s, had been the notion that
those displaced were making an obligatory contribution to national welfare and therefore
no extraordinary measures were needed to restore their livelihoods. Another fundamental
problem was that resettlement was implemented without transparency or consistency and
thus easily subject to mismanagement.

4.15     This attitude changed after 1985. Problems in large projects were recognized by
the GOC, which coped with periodic resettlement demonstrations and an exodus from the
original host areas back to the reservoir zones. In 1986, the resettlement office in the
Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) was given responsibility to undertake rehabilitation
programs for all resettlement sites where people have been disadvantaged, and to develop
new standards, laws and regulations for new resettlement sites. By the time the
Xiaolangdi Project was appraised, a series of laws and regulations was in effect to
provide guidance for all types of resettlement projects. Taken together, they called for
full protection of the resettled and much stronger support to reservoir relocatees than
previously had been the case.

4.16     The Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project was appraised shortly after the Bank
completed an assessment of resettlement experience in China and a Bank-wide review of
resettlement in Bank Group projects was nearing completion.8 Both studies reached
similar conclusions: (a) Chinese national and provincial law and regulations now
substantially meet the requirements of both the Bank's resettlement policy (Operational
Directive 4.30) and OECD resettlement guidelines; (b) the experience in recent projects
indicates that the Chinese authorities treated resettlement as a long-term process requiring
sustained attention long after physical resettlement activities are completed; and (c)
resettlement plans clearly articulated a key objective of improving or maintaining the
standard of living of affected people.

4.17     By the end of 1993, the basis for "resettlement with development" was in place. It
was generally agreed that the GOC demonstrated a high degree of commitment to


7 See Lee Travers, Involuntary Resettlement, 1993, WB Report No. 11641-CHA; and Jun Jing,
"Displacement, Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Reparation and Development--China Report, contributing
paper to the World Commission on Dams, 2000. Sophia Woodman, among others, questions the universal
characterization of Chinese resettlement as a model, "Wishful Thinking: China, Resettlement Models and
the International Review of Big Dams, China Rights Forum, Spring, 200, reprinted by International Rivers
Network.
8. China: Involuntary Resettlement World Bank, (Rpt. 11641, June 1993).

                                               12


successful resettlement. Resettlement policies had clear developmental objectives.
Responsibilities were well delineated. Resource allocations were increased. And
programs for long term-training on resettlement were initiated. Having addressed obvious
shortcomings, there was optimism that that the new orientation could achieve results. For
example, in the Shuikou Hydroelectric Projects I and I1 (Loans 2775-CHA and 3515-
CHA), the incomes of resettlers exceeded their original incomes in real terms within the
first year of resettlement.

4.18     Of the laws and regulations dealing with resettlement planning and
implementation, one is particularly relevant to the Xiaolangdi Project: The Regulation
for Land Requisition Compensation and Resettlement of Large and Medium Water
Conservancy and Hydroelectric Projects, issued by the State Council in Decree No. 74 in
May 1991. The regulation has four features of particular importance:

    (a) Resettlement shall make relocatees recover or surpass the existing living levels
         through construction, resource exploitation, soil conservancy and economic
         development of the reservoir region;
    (b) The state encourages and supports resettlement with development by means of
         compensation and subsidy in the initial stage, and production support in later
         stages;
    (c) Families who lose their land completely can transfer their registration from rural
         to urban registration (and hence become eligible for urban industrial employment,
         residency, and perquisites) as reviewed and approved by provincial and county
         governments; and
    (d) If the compensation for land and resettlement calculated on the basis of the
         regulation makes it difficult to meet needs, the resettlement subsidy may be
         increased to do so.9
4.19     The new principles were solid, but some practical implementation issues
remained that the project sought to address. Five issues stood out. First, to obtain realistic
costs and overcome the cost overruns and budget shortfalls that plague even successful
projects, planning needed to be improved. Second, to increase accountability and
efficiency, planning and implementation procedures needed to be more fully developed
and transparent. Third, to gain credibility and public support, compensation calculations
and eligibility requirements needed to become transparent and established through
negotiation and mutual agreement. Fourth, to achieve development and income
restoration objectives, resettlement officials, local political leaders and resettlers all need
to work together to identify their skills, their needs and new opportunities to diversify
family income sources and the local economy. Finally, to gain the ownership and
cooperation of affected persons, decision-making needed to become more participatory
and redress mechanisms needed to be transparent and responsive. All of these issues were
addressed in the project design.

4.20     From the perspective of the World Bank's resettlement policy (Operational
Directive 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement), Xiaolangdi Resettlement was a cutting edge



9. Cited in the SAR.

                                                       13


project. OD 4.30 was still in effect, but project design was strongly influenced by
emerging recommendations of the Bank-wide on-going resettlement review. The project
incorporated many recommendations that ultimately shaped the new Operational Policy,
OP 4.12, which went into effect in January 2002 and was revised in April 2004.
Compared to OD 4.30, OP 4.12 gives greater attention to income restoration as the
objective of resettlement operations; emphasizes the need to have affected persons
participate in the design and implementation of a resettlement program and benefit
directly from the investment that requires resettlement; and requires a strong monitoring
component, among other changes. Xiaolangdi thus constitutes an early pilot of the major
provisions of OP 4.12, as well as a conscientious application of Chinese resettlement
policies and procedures, of finally moving from the rhetoric of "resettlement with
development" to a real application.10

EFFICACY

4.21      The two specific objectives of the project (a) to resettle and improve the
livelihoods of approximately 190,000 people in the reservoir area who need to be
resettled as a result of the construction and inundation up to the 265 meter level of the
Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam, and (b) to minimize the effects of social adjustment of the
resettlers and of their host communities following resettlement, have been subdivided
into four objectives for the following discussion. Objective (a) has a first sub-objective to
resettle and a second sub-objective to improve the livelihoods of resettlers. Objective (b)
similarly has a first sub-objective to minimize the effects of social adjustment on
resettlers, and second sub-objective to do the same for host communities. Project
achievements are evaluated in terms of these sub-objectives below.

Physical relocation of resettlers was fully accomplished

4.22      Resettlement. The YHWHDC resettlement office informed the mission that
189,600 people were resettled from the Xiaolangdi dam and reservoir sites, including
government workers. Actual annual resettlement compared with appraisal estimates and
the 1997 Revised Resettlement Plan is shown in Figure 1. It shows that actual
resettlement was more than estimated in the early project period, then declined while
waiting for approval of the revised budget (1997) and peaked later and higher than
anticipated. In contrast the 1997 Plan caused a high volume of relocation for the first four
years of the project and then none until 2010.

4.23      The last 1,600 resettlers were moved by the end of 2005, a year before the IEG
evaluation and two years after the project closing date. They were essentially Phase 2
hold-outs who did not want to leave their old homesteads and refused to join fellow



10. Duan Yuefang and Brooke McDonald say that "RwD (Resettlement with Development) is only an ideal
at this stage and is yet to be seen in practice. Despite the inclusion of RwD in policies intended for
hydropower resettlement...there is only one project where RwD has been applied--the Three Gorges Dam
Project" (p. 9). In a footnote, they say "Although the Xiaolangdi resettlement on the Yellow River also
applies the concept, this project was developed after the Three Gorges Project and is based on World Bank
Policy (pers. Comm. January 12, 2004) (p. 9), "Involuntary Resettlement as an Opportunity for
Development: The Application of `Resettlement with Development' in the People's Republic of China,"
Melbourne University Private Working Papers Series, No. 14, March 2004.

                                                       14


villagers in new sites, for various reasons. Ultimately, with the help of the Design
Institute, the county was able to negotiate a satisfactory arrangement to locate everyone
near the reservoir, most in small group sites.

Figure 1: Xiaolangdi Resettlement History 1991-2006




Source: Xiaolandi M&E database



4.24     The project aimed to move people into fully-functioning villages complete with
utilities, services, sources of income and administration. People settled into much better
housing than they abandoned and all reports--informal and those of the independent
monitor--indicate that people are happy with the quality of their homes and villages. The
old villages had unpaved streets (Picture 1) and many residents lived in caves (Picture 2).
11Their new, compact rural (Picture 3) and peri-urban (Picture 4) villages have paved
streets inside and outside the village; drains; electricity; running water; telephone access;
schools; clinics; administrative offices; most have cable television; and some have natural
gas connections. New homes have courtyards that serve many purposes, from storing
materials transported from former residences to housing animals and storing wood and
grain (Pictures 5 and 6).




11. Picture 1 is a photo of a picture on display in the Xiaolangdi Visitor Center. All other photos were
taken by the author.

                                             15




Picture 1. Old Reservoir Village               Picture 2. Cave Similar to Old Dwellings
Original: Xiaolangdi Visitor Center.          Near Yuanqu, Shanxi




Picture 3. New Rural Village                    Picture 4. New Peri-urban Village
Mayu, Wenxian County, Henan                     Xincheng, Yuanqu County, Shanxi

4.25     Resettlers were compensated for their homes and other fixed assets, primarily in
kind with building materials and some cash for labor. Families generally added their own
resources, as well, if they could afford it. Resettlers moved into homes that are smaller
than the ones they left, but of much better quality (Picture 7). In some villages, homes are
equipped to generate biogas for cooking (Picture 8).




Picture 5. Courtyard                            Picture 6. Multiple-use Courtyard
Zhouli, Menjin County, Henan                    Mayu, Wenxian County, Henan

                                              16




Picture 7. Living Room                         Picture 8. Biogas Kitchen
Mayu, Wenxian County, Henan                    Jiaozuo, Menjin County, Henan

4.26     Compensation for land went to the resettler village administration and to host
communities to compensate them for the land they lost. The compensation funds were to
be used for livelihood development, such as workshops, common processing areas
(Picture 9), modest greenhouses (Picture 10) or fancy ones (Picture 11) or common barns
(Picture 12).




Picture 9. Thrashing, Processing Ground        Picture 10. Modest Greenhouses
Gulcxhang, Yuanqu County, Shanxi               Mayu, Wenxian County, Henan




Picture 11. Fancy Greenhouses                  Picture 12. Common Barns
Jiaozuo, Menjin County, Henan                  Jiaozuo, Menjin County, Henan

4.27     Most villages have at least one clinic (Picture 13) and school (Pictures 14-16).
IEG was informed that some villages used much of the compensation funds to enhance

                                                      17


the quality of the schools.12 Residents in resettlement villagers proudly show off their
new schools to visitors.13




Picture 13. Village Clinic                              Picture 14. Middle School
Mayu, Wenxian County, Henan                             Changtou, Wenxian County, Henan



4.28     Township centers have many public facilities (Picture 17) and wide, landscaped
streets (Picture 18). In addition to being well-equipped as administrative centers (Picture
19), the townships are already well-established as commercial (Picture 20) and service
centers.




Picture 15. Elementary School Classroom                  Picture 16. New Middle School
Mayu, Wenxian County, Henan                              Jiaozuo, Menjin County, Henan




12 Notes from discussion with the former task manager, who was involved in the project from the very
beginning as the resettlement expert. No data were made available to IEG to support these statements.
13 The ICR suggests that some villages used development funds to upgrade the quality of their schools.
Although one could argue that this investment would decrease the prospects of achieving development
objectives, village officials expected to receive additional development funds, thus they undoubtedly felt
that is was a good trade-off, consistent with the high value they place on education.

                                                   18




Picture 17. Township, Main Square                    Picture 18. Main Street, Township
Changtou, Wenxian County, Henan                       Changtou, Wenxian County, Henan




Picture 19. Township Administration                   Picture 20. Store for All Needs
Changtou, Wenxian County, Henan                       Changtou, Wenxian County, Henan

Improving the livelihood of resettlers proved challenging and remains partial

4.29      The land and agriculture base adopted to reestablish livelihoods after restructuring
placed a premium on land acquisition and development. At closure, 75 percent of the
resettlement villages had met target land allocations of 1.2 mu/capita (1.0 mu of irrigated
land or 1.7 mu of dryland). Table 3 shows average land holdings by county, which range
from 0.84 to 2.22 mu/capita. Members of host communities were left with similar land
allocations but on average each host village had to give up 0.3 mu/capita to the resettlers.
Provincial resettlement officers informed IEG that the villages with below-target land
allocations were given special funding to develop livelihood activities that would offset
the deficit, but provided no data regarding the content or success of the initiatives.

Table 3: Area of Farm Land per Capita for Resettlement Villages and Host
Communities (mu)
Farmland                                               County
per capita Yuanqu   Mengjin   Xin'an    Mianchi Jiyuan Mengzhou   Wenxian    Yuanyahg Zhongmou Kaifeng

Resettlers 1.07     0.87      1.10      1.63    0.84   0.94       1.00       0.99     0.90     2.22
Hosts      1.08     1.05      1.07      1.54    1.03   0.65       0.73       2.00     2.03     2.80

Source: Xiaolangdi M&E Final Report, p. 20

                                                                   19


4.30                         The Houhe Dam and irrigation project were completed in June 2003 six years
later than planned and four years after resettlers arrived. Land leveling was completed at
Wenmengtan at the end of 2000, two years late, and soil improvements were completed
in 2001. Resettlers in the two areas that received irrigation late--Houhe and
Wenmengtan--were still getting used to the irrigation system by project closure.
Provincial resettlement officials assured IEG that these farmers should have adjusted to
the new water regime and would have been able to increase their crop yields and incomes
between 2004 and 2006. Without careful documentation, however, this conclusion
appears to be unduly optimistic.

4.31                         The last M&E report (2003) showed two complementary trends underway: first,
in aggregate, household incomes recover in about four years, although the patterns are
varied and uncertain; and second, non-agricultural income increases over time and seems
to be the principal determinant of household income increases.14

4.32                         The three charts shown below illustrate average per capita income trends in
sample villages in three counties before and after resettlement.15 The "after" year is from
mid-2002 to mid-2003; "before" dates vary from one group to another. As these are
county averages, the median year of the sample is shown as the "before" date. Mengjin
County shows that each group has increased its income, although none of the resettler
groups reached the level of the host villagers, and the dam site and Phase 1 resettlers
were considerably below others' incomes.


                                                     Household Net Income Per Capita
                                                            Mengjin County


                          2500




                          2000

    )na
       yu(
          e               1500

           om
             ncI
                d
                 hole     1000


                     ousH                                                                Dam Site
                                                                                         Phase 1
                          500                                                            Phase 2
                                                                                         Phase 3
                                                                                         Host



                            0
                                1994  1995    1996  1997   1998     1999   2000    2001  2002    2003

                                                               Year




14 The mission had neither the time nor the resources to commission a survey to generate more current
data.
15 Taken from the before/after tables in the M&E Final Report, pp. 53-55. The "before" date for the host
community sample is unclear from the report, so the charts show 1994 as the baseline year for those
communities.

                                                                                     20


                                                                       Household Net Income Per Capita
                                                                                Jiyuan County

                                            3000




                                            2500



  )
   anuy(                                    2000

        e
         om
           ncI                              1500
              d
               hole

                   ousH                     1000
                                                                                                          Dam Site
                                                                                                          Phase 1
                                                                                                          Phase 2
                                             500                                                          Phase 3
                                                                                                          Host



                                               0
                                                  1994   1995   1996  1997    1998    1999   2000    2001     2002   2003

                                                                                  Year




                                                                       Household Net Income Per Capita
                                                                                Xin'an County


                                             2500




                                             2000

                       )nauy(
                             e               1500

                              om
                                ncI
                                   d
                                    hole     1000


                                        ousH                                                                Phase 1
                                                                                                            Phase 2
                                             500                                                            Phase 3
                                                                                                            Host




                                                0
                                                   1994   1995  1996   1997    1998    1999   2000    2001     2002   2003

                                                                                   Year




4.33                                            In Jiyuan County, the overall pattern is similar, with the exception that Phase 2
incomes started from a lower level and the income of Phase 3 resettlers has decreased
since moving. Phase 3 resettlers in Xin'an County also experienced a drop in income
after resettling. The decrease in incomes of Phase 3 resettlers indicates two factors: first,
many of the resettlers were able to
raise their incomes through individual                                             Table 4: Percent of Sample Villages that
coal mining when the ban on private                                                Reached or Exceeded Pre-Resettlement
mining was lifted as resettlement                                                  Income Level in 2003
started; second, many of these                                                     Location                         Income level (%)
resettlers moved shortly before the                                                    Damsite                             90
final survey, and were still working                                                   Phase 1                             100
on housing and settling in. The                                                        Phase 2                              85
relatively higher starting income of                                                   Phase 3                              88
                                                                                      Host communities                     100
Phase 2 resettlers in Xin'an is also                                                Source: Source: Derived from M&E Final Report, p.53-55.
likely to be due to coal mining
income.

                                                     21


4.34     Phase 2 and Phase 3 resettlers have been unable to restore their incomes to
previous levels because their incomes (measured at the time the baseline was established)
were high due to coal mining, which they could not continue after the move and because
they were still settling in at the time of the last survey (Table 4).        16


4.35     The percentages of household income from non-farm sources in the four
resettlement groups and host communities, however, increased the longer the resettlers
were established (Table 5).17 The trend appears to be for one or more members of the
family to seek outside employment, rather than for the family to abandon agriculture.
Increasingly, women are taking full responsibility for agriculture after resettlement.18
Most of the non-farm income comes from temporary work that is easier for resettlers to
find, as their new locations are closer to larger towns and larger bazaars. Many dam site
resettlers successfully sought employment related to the dam construction, but jobs were
ending and people were looking for alternatives by 2003.19

4.36     The overall pattern is that resettlers are generally increasing their incomes but at a
slower rate than their host communities. It is not clear, however, how the growth of the
host communities' income relates to non-project affected communities in the same area.
It may be that the higher growth is due to exogenous factors ­ such as China's own
municipal development programs, or spill-over effects from dam-related commerce and
employment ­ but the M&E system did not have indicators to capture these effects.

Table 5: Agriculture becomes less important once resettlers become established
    Resettlement Group            Non-Agricultural Income (percent)           Years Resettled
   Dam Site                                       86.5                               >12
   Phase 1                                        78.2                               >10
   Phase 2                                        70.0                                >5
   Phase 3                                        65.0                             3 or less
   Host Communities                               65.5                         not applicable
   Source: Final M&E Report, 2003.p. 85.

4.37     Data on income restoration results are not current. There are no project-wide data
available to confirm whether or not the percentage of resettlers who have restored their
incomes has increased since the end of 2003. The YHWHDC still cites the 2003 data and
expects the situation to have improved since then. In discussions with IEG, Henan
Provincial Resettlement officials confidently claimed that incomes have been restored in
resettler villages. In subsequent discussions with them and the head of the independent


16. Contrary to an earlier practice, local governments encouraged local people in the reservoir area to
embark on coal mining which accounted for about 70 percent of the 789 enterprises in the area (the others
were coal washing, brick making, grain processing and cement production.) When the reservoir filled these
job opportunities and the associated incomes were lost.
17 The Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project Resettlement Project Completion Monitoring and Evaluation
Report (Final Xiaolangdi M&E Report), Henan Hashui Consulting Service Company, December 2003, p
85
16. Final Xiaolangdi M&E Report, p. 118.
17. The Final Xiaolangdi M&E Report cited this as a new problem to be addressed, p. 149. The same point
is made in Michael Webber and Brooke McDonald, "Involuntary Resettlement, Production and Income:
Evidence from Xiaolangdi, PRC, World Development, Vol. 32. No. 4 April 2004, p. 688,

                                                      22


Chinese M&E team, both observed that the resettlers who failed to restore their incomes
by 2003 are concentrated on the Houhe and Wenmengtan sites or resettled in 2002 or
later. The official expectation is that farmers will increase production and incomes,
despite declining prices, after two years or more of irrigation service.

4.38     At the end of the project IEG estimate that about 43,726 people resettled since
1998 were still undergoing adjustment to their new economic and social situation. This
includes 3,376 people who were relocated after 2003 and for whom there was no project
M&E to monitor livelihoods and social impacts. Given that it took the Phase I resettlers
at least four years to adjust fully to their new economic and social environment (para 4.42
and graphs on page 20) this means that the fate of about 24 percent of the resettlers
remains uncertain.20

Social adjustment of resettlers remains incomplete

4.39     The bulk of institutional support focused on the resettlement process--selecting
sites, preparing for the move and adjusting to new physical and economic environments.
Resettlement staff were concerned about livelihoods, but income restoration was
beyond the competence of most staff, and the ICR says that the project waited too
long to address income generation issues. Village administrations assumed
responsibility for livelihoods, with limited substantive support, as they had limited access
to land compensation funds for this purpose, and expected to get additional funds through
the post-resettlement support fund, but this proved to be a small and unreliable resource.
Nonetheless, although officials were enthusiastic about helping resettlers and prepared
proposals to develop new income streams, the results were less than expected because of
the inadequacy and then lapse of transfers from hydropower revenues.

4.40     Experience with irrigation-based land reform in Southern Italy demonstrates that
people who settle before an irrigation system starts to operate may suffer irreversible
impacts, including substantial debt, and never achieve the economic status of those who
settle later.21 Waiting for irrigation water inevitably prolonged the transition to everyday
life of families resettled in Houhe and Wenmengtan. Without irrigation, those farmers
certainly would not have been able to reach former production levels on their new small
plots and their cost of living inevitably increased in the meantime.22 Recognizing this
problem, local officials distributed food to those who needed it, but such a gesture is
more likely to create a dependency relationship than to encourage self-reliance.

4.41     The IEG mission was unable to visit Houhe and Wenmengtan. Visits to other sites



20. IEG analaysis of the official M&E data (Annex F) indicates that 27 percent of the early Phase 2
resettlers had reduced incomes over the period 1998-2003. Similarly 17 percent of the latter Phase 2
resettlers saw theit incomes reduce by 17 percent over the period 2000-2003. And all of the Phase 3
resettlers did not regain pre-project income levels. The total number of Phase 2 resettlers adversely affected
was 26,526 and the number in Phase 3 was 17,000. Overall total is thus 43,726 or 23.8 percent of the total
resettled population of 184,080.
21. Previous research Peabody, S.
22 Resettlers enjoyed better living conditions, as well as improved access to utilities, the costs of which
inevitably increased everyday costs of living.

                                                     23


(Phase-2) gave the clear impression that the normal adjustment period is over for most of
the Phase 1 resettlers, at least, and people appear to be well settled-in. In virtually all
interviews, both brief and more protracted, villagers reported that they had not wanted to
move and the resettlement process was difficult, but they feel they are much better off
now than they were before the move.

4.42    Visually, villages and towns appear dynamic, considering the amount and variety
of products grown for the market and amount of residential decoration and differentiation
to the range of consumer goods in stores. The last social monitoring report showed
increasing diversification of household income sources, and this trend appears likely to
have continued both within villages and between villages and the outside. In sum, early
monitoring results suggested that the project's income restoration objective for resettlers
has been partially achieved although the achievement cannot be expected to be uniform
throughout the resettlement zone.23

4.43    Experience has shown that it can take several years for resettlers to adjust to their
new environments, even if the resettlement program itself is well-designed. Resettlers
inevitably face unanticipated challenges of many types, some of the most important of
which relate to income restoration. The Xiaolangdi independent monitor claimed that the
process took four years for Phase 1 resettlers to be fully adjusted.24 In the interim, crops
can fail; learning to manage new crops, irrigation and marketing takes time; transport and
labor can be major constraints; new businesses can fail; business relationships can fall
apart; products can fail the market test; and other unforeseen events can occur. Poor and
vulnerable people are the most likely to face economic problems and the least likely to be
resilient in the face of adversity, thus resettlement is particularly difficult for them. The
purpose for continuing independent monitoring is to be able to highlight both successful
and problematical villages.

4.44    The purpose of the post-resettlement support fund is to make development
resources available to provide seed money for individual or village entrepreneurship--to
provide the development dimension of the "resettlement with development" strategy"--
and to help the poor and vulnerable cope with their new environment. At completion, the
Xiaolangdi support fund was small, its impact had been undocumented and its future was
uncertain. Subsequently, the Supreme Council issued Decree No. 417, which became
effective in July, 2006. The decree covers everyone who was resettled since 1949 and
provides all resettlers 600 yuan per capita per year for 20 years--about one-fifth of the




23. Brooke McDonald's field work carried out in two Xiaolangdi villages in 1999 and 2000, reported in
Webber and McDonald, "Involuntary Resettlement, Production and Income: Evidence from Xiaolangdi,
PRC, World Development, Vol. 32. No. 4 April 2004, , pp. 673-690, showed how two similar villages
responded very differently to resettlement, reflecting differences in their pre-resettlement economies that
would not be apparent to planners. Presumably such differences would be manifest all over the
resettlement zone, suggesting that post-resettlement interventions need to be highly customized for each
village.
27. Final Monitoring and Evaluation Report p. 60.

                                                   24


per capita annual income in the project area.25 A census was under way at the time of the
IEG evaluation to determine eligibility and funds were expected to be released in 2007.

4.45     The new decree and regulations were not available in English at the time of the
IEG mission. Despite being briefed by people who participated in drafting the documents,
as well as officials who will implement the new program, IEG did not fully understand
how the program will actually operate. In particular, it was not clear if funds will be
distributed at the county, township or administrative village level. There is doubt also
about identifying which villages or townships need special support and how this can be
targeted effectively.

Social adjustment of host communities appears was more successful

4.46     The independent monitor confirmed that household incomes in 22 sample host
communities exceeded pre-project income levels by the time of project closure.26 This
finding is credible and incomes are likely to have continued to increase subsequently, as
host community residents lost little less than an average of 0.3 mu/capita of land to
resettlers and the compensation funds were used for capital improvements, especially
schools, and to invest in livelihood improvement projects.

4.47     The participatory planning process, involving both resettlers and host
communities, engaged resettlers and helped convince them to agree to move. It also
enabled host communities to manage expectations and mitigate the impact of the loss of
village land to resettlers. Resettlers and host communities jointly agreed on the location
of resettlement sites and the amount of land that would be made available to resettlers.
Following negotiations, both parties signed an agreement. The process helped establish
good relations between resettler and host communities, greatly easing adjustment in the
new environment. Early M&E reports cited instances of poor relations between resettler
and host communities, primarily triggered by resettler dissatisfaction with the quality of
the land that the host community ceded, but these problems decreased over time. Indeed,
the final M&E report remarks that the incidence of marriages between members of host
and resettler communities was increasing.

EFFICIENCY

4.48     Efficiency is rated substantial. Although efficiency is normally measured as a
return on capital, a more salient measure of the efficiency of resettlement is the success at
creating a new environment for resettlers in which they can adjust quickly and
permanently.

4.49     Total project costs were almost 50 percent above appraisal estimates. Actual costs
were $4,434 per capita. The increase was due not to overruns, however, but to the results



25. In 2004, the per capita net income was estimated to be 2,838 yuan in rural Henan Province and 2,891 in
rural Shanxi Province, "An Introduction to China's Provinces, Municipalities and Autonomous Regions,"
http://www.china.org.cn/english/features/ProvinceView.
26 Annual data from 2000-2003 show considerable fluctuation, however. Three villages had average
incomes in 2003 lower than 2000, and half had lower incomes in intervening years.

                                              25


of a census and inventory of the whole project area that was undertaken between 1995
and 1996 (para 3.3). The budget appears to have stayed within the revised allocation
approved by the State Planning Commission in 1998. This re-assessment and re-
calculation occurred in the initial project period, which made it possible to revise the
detailed design and implementation schedule and obtain commitments for additional
funding early enough to ensure the availability of adequate resources without subsequent
interruption.

4.50     The project period was extended by two years, primarily because much time was
spent in early years to prepare operational documents and detailed plans and to recruit,
organize and train staff. The time was well spent, however, and everything was in place
during the peak years of 1998-2001 and, unlike other resettlement programs in China,
implementation was quite uniform throughout the project area. Virtually all of the IDA
funds were disbursed almost two years before the closing date, but supervision continued
through the first year of Phase 3 resettlement, which completed in 2004.

4.51     Project efficiency is rated high except for Houhe and Wenmengtan, which lowers
the overall rating to substantial.

Outcome

4.52     Outcome is rated moderately satisfactory based on the relative importance of the
project's objectives and their relevance, efficacy and efficiency, Table 6. While the
mechanical process of resettlement is fairly routine, the most important value-added of
the Bank's participation was to highlight the importance of livelihood restoration of
resettlers and the minimization of effects of social adjustment. In consequence the
greatest weight is given to sub-objective A(2) and B(1). Rating the efficacy of these sub-
objectives was most adversely affected by the shortcomings of the M&E system ­ better
and current M&E may have led to a more sanguine outcome.

Table 6: Factors Determining Project Outcome rating
Objective                     Weight   Relevance  Efficacy    Efficiency  Outcome

A(1): Resettle 189,600 people    3        High    Substantial
from the reservoir area

A(2): Improve the                1        High      Modest
livelihoods of the 189,600
people that were resettled

B(1): Minimize the effect of     2        High      Modest
social adjustment of the
resettlers

B(2): Minimize the effect of     4        High    Substantial
social adjustment of the host
communities

                                          High      Modest    Substantial    Moderately
                                                                            Satisfactory

                                                       26


Risks to Development Outcome

4.53      The overall assessment of risk to development outcome is moderate. The risk
to development outcome must be considered along two separate dimensions:
resettlement and sustainable development. The threat to development in resettlement is
rated low, but the risk to achieving and sustaining the "resettlement with development"
outcome is moderate. The reasons for ratings are discussed below.

4.54      Resettlement is inherently a risky process, as failures can be devastating for
resettlers and host communities alike.27 If the resettlement process is designed and
implemented appropriately, and resettlers and host communities are able to restore or
increase their incomes, the risk of subsequently losing their status is similar to that of
other citizens. That is, most of the critical risks in resettlement can be mitigated by good
design and implementation. In the best of circumstances, some people inevitably need
additional support after the move, but such support should be planned and budgeted in
advance.

4.55      In the discussion that follows, some of the threats identified may affect
individuals, while others may affect specific groups or the whole population of affected
people. In addition, some threats relate to aspects resettling and re-establishing
functioning households; some relate to restoring and maintaining income levels or
increasing them, and others concern post-resettlement troubleshooting.

4.56      Technical. Members of resettler villages and host communities all ended up with
smaller land plots than they had previously. To compensate, the project sought to allocate
land by family size and to distribute irrigated, improved land, as much as possible. In
most cases, to restore or increase incomes, farmers had to produce higher value crops, for
which many had to learn how to irrigate and/or manage greenhouse production. These
technological changes were not very sophisticated, but they were critical for success.
Extension and specific technical assistance was available to help villages and farmers
make the transition. Almost 85,000 people were trained in 1,165 agriculturally-related
training sessions, of which almost 37,000 were women.28 Technical issues were thus
critical for outcomes, but moderate risk.




27. Michael Cernea identifies eight impoverishment processes usually associated with "forced replacement
and reestablishment--(a) landlessness; (b) joblessness; (c) homelessness; (d) marginalization; (e) food
insecurity; (f) loss of access to common property resources; (g) increased morbidity; and (h) community
disarticulation in "The Risks and Reconstruction Model for Resettling Displaced Populations," World
Bank Environment Department, August 1997. Webber and McDonald (World Development, April 2004)
cite Cernea and essentially say that of all these, Xiaolangdi resettlement doe not adequately address
joblessness and loss of access to common property resources. They conclude that "the Chinese state does
have the capacity to avoid many of the worst effects of resettlement, at least for villages that are resettled as
a whole to a new rural location. Even so, the state may not be able to (a) avoid loss of land; (b) insure
against joblessness; (c) avoid the loss of space for low-intensity sources of income; and (d) plan in
sufficient detail to respond to different village economies (p.689).
28 The training included growing and managing paddy, fruit trees and herbal medicines; livestock raising
(cattle, pigs, sheep and rabbits); aquaculture; greenhouses and marketing, and others. ICR pp. 12 and 48. In

                                                     27


4.57     Financial. Inadequate or untimely funding can jeopardize a resettlement
program, and often accounts for unsatisfactory outcomes. Unlike most resettlement
programs, the Xiaolangdi project had a development objective in addition to income
restoration. Resettler and host communities received land compensation funds that were
intended to be used for livelihood investments. This funding was to be complemented by
a post-resettlement support fund that had two purposes: to promote new livelihood
activities in the community and to help the vulnerable adjust to their new environment.
Unexpectedly low revenues from the Xiaolangdi hydropower in the early years of
operation (but since recovered) threatened or at least delayed achieving the development
outcomes of the project. The national post-resettlement program's objective is to double
both the level and duration of post-resettlement support that was promised and mitigate
the impact of previous shortfalls in Xiaolangdi hydropower revenue. It remains to be seen
whether or not the program will be implemented in a way that meets the needs of
Xiaolangdi resettlers and host communities.29 This uncertainty poses a moderate risk and
but the potential impact on restoring livelihoods is rated significant.

4.58     Economic. Ultimately, a downturn in the local or national economy could reduce
income levels attained by all project people. The direct impact is likely to be most severe
for employees of the relocated enterprises, but other resettlers and host community
members who have begun to produce high-value crops would also be affected by changes
in demand for their products. To protect resettlers against catastrophic failure, the project
set a minimum allocation to farmers of 1.2 mu (0.08 ha) per person (which is smaller than
their previous average holdings) and helped them make good use of the new plots, 57
percent of which were irrigated, through training, extension, and targeted technical
assistance.30 Relocation sites were selected that could make land available for resettlers
with the carrying capacity to provide the minimum allocation. This is in contrast with the
Three Gorges Project, for example, where land requirements far exceeded the supply,
even at long distances, which resulted in many farmers being resettled in high-rise
apartments in new cities that offered no prospects for employment, agricultural or
otherwise. It is unlikely that the Xiaolangdi project would have attained minimum per
person land allocations without the new land made available through the Houhe and
Wenmengtan schemes.

4.59     Social. Resettlement potentially imposes hardships on resettlers and host
communities alike and can easily lead to conflict between these two groups of affected
people.31 Poorly designed and managed resettlement can lead to impoverishment,
unemployment, permanent dislocation, isolation, intransigence, conflict or rebellion,



addition, some villages used their development funds to hire technical experts for training and extension in
specific subject areas.
29. The primary risk is ensuring that the funds are correctly targeted and this can only be done if there is
good monitoring and evaluation of resettlers' livelihoods. An independently managed trust fund or
foundation could support necessary M&E and identify appropriate mitigation measures for shortcomings.
Such approaches aimed at providing support for bridging activities have been tried in Bank projects, as for
example in the UGANDA--Bwindi Impenetrable National Park and Mgahinga Gorilla National Park Conservation
Project (GET Grant No. 28670 UG).
30. The project acquired 187,468 mu of farm land, of which 112,995 mu was provided with irrigation.
31. See also Cernea (1997).

                                                   28


among other responses. Although income restoration data are relevant, for an assessment
of social risk, it is more useful to assess the physical and institutional environment to
ascertain if the conditions are favorable for people to actually resettle and carry on their
lives, with adjustments to take advantage of new opportunities. In this case, the
conclusion is overwhelmingly positive. See Annex E for a more detailed analysis.
Another unobtrusive indicator of low social risk is the fact that provincial resettlement
people obtain one or two complaint letters a year from Xiaolangdi-affected people,
compared to hundreds from people affected by other resettlement activities. The social
risk for resettlement is rated as low in Xiaolangdi because virtually all foreseeable social
risks were mitigated in project design and implementation.32 The potential impact could
be significant, however. For the development aspect, the social risk is moderate, as much
of the post resettlement support was to come from the fund that has never been realized
as intended.

4.60    Political. At the time of the evaluation there were no political issues under
consideration that would affect either resettlement or development initiatives.
Consequently, political risks are negligible and impacts also negligible.

4.61    Environmental. Environmental threats are negligible, as are their likely impact,
because environmental elements were built into the project design. The project
successfully implemented provisions to clear the reservoir to reduce pollution in the
reservoir, to mitigate industrial pollution and to establish village environmental officers
to monitor water quality and public health. Site designs incorporated latrines, drainage
and solid waste facilities to maintain environmental quality, as well. Public health was
also monitored successfully, based on the experience of other resettlement projects, in
which resettlement was accompanied by an increase in the incidence of environmentally
related health problems.

4.62    Government Ownership. The project enjoyed a high level of government
ownership during implementation, which contributed greatly to its basic achievements.
The level of ownership appeared to decline after the Bank withdrew, as is commonly the
case in China and other countries, as illustrated by the termination of the independent
monitoring program and the delay in setting up an acceptable post-resettlement fund. On
the other hand, however, development responsibilities were transferred to village
administrations that keep their own records, and the post-resettlement issue has been
addressed on a national level instead of the project level.      33


4.63    The creation of the new national post-resettlement support program indicates that
the central government is committed to redress shortcomings in previous resettlement
programs. In Xiaolangdi, the new fund is planned finance development investments that
were promised. Continued government commitment is needed to ensure that the program
is implemented transparently, with the active participation of resettlers. The independent
monitoring program should be resumed as the need for tracking incomes and adjustments



32. See Webber and McDonald, World Development, 2004.
33 Dependence on village-level data has its own problems, as Mc Donald and Weber indicate in
"Involuntary Resettlement in China: A Model of Good Practice?". FMR 14, July 2002, p. 38-39.

                                                 29


is still as important is it was during the project period. Although there is a moderate risk
that post-resettlement allocations will be used by village administrations as general
purpose grants, thereby potentially undermining the objective of the program, this risk is
partially mitigated by the fact that villagers are aware of the new fund and have gained
some experience in keeping officials accountable for the use of development funds. The
risk to development outcome is thus moderate, but the long-term impact could be
significant.

4.64       Institutional Support. During the IEG mission, officials at all levels were
confident that the post-resettlement fund would go into effect as planned with the full
support of different levels of government. The current risk thus relates to implementation
responsibility and procedures, rather than policies or legislation, and is low, although the
potential impact on achieving real development outcomes is significant.

4.65       Governance. There is a significant risk that poor governance could significantly
limit the impact of the post-resettlement support program and ultimately the long term
fate of resettlers. Provincial corruption is a recognized problem and is receiving higher
coverage in the national and international press. More recently senior officials have been
successfully prosecuted to highlight the need for good governance. The threat can be
mitigated by implementing the program in a transparent manner with full accountability
to resettlers, building on the positive experience in Xiaolangdi.

4.66       Natural Disasters Exposure. The new resettlement sites are not in disaster-prone
areas, thus the likelihood of this risk is negligible.

4.67       Table 7 summarizes the IEG's assessments of the specific threats discussed
above.

Table 7: Risks to Development Outcome at Time of IEG Evaluation

                                                      Resettlement/Development
                                            Resettlement              Sustained Development
Risk                                Likelihood      Impact         Likelihood      Impact

Technical                                Low            Low             Low          Moderate
Financial                             Negligible     Negligible       Moderate       Significant
Economic                                 Low          Moderate       Significant     Significant
Social                                   Low         Significant      Moderate       Significant
Political                             Negligible     Negligible       Moderate       Moderate
Environmental                         Negligible     Negligible      Negligible      Negligible
Government Ownership                     Low            Low           Moderate       Significant
Other Stakeholder Ownership           Negligible     Negligible      Negligible      Negligible
Institutional Support                  Modest           Low           Moderate       Significant
Governance                            Substantial      High          significant       High
Natural Disaster Exposure             Negligible     Negligible      Negligible      Significant


4.68       Overall Risk to Development Outcome. The threat to the development outcome
in resettlement is low. Because of uncertainty regarding the post-resettlement program
and lack of ongoing monitoring, the threat to achieving the "resettlement with
development" outcome and increased incomes is substantial. The overall risk to
development outcome is therefore rated substantial.

                                              30


Bank Performance

4.69    Quality at Entry. The Bank was engaged in preparation of the project from early
stages, working closely with counterparts and consultants on all aspects of the design.
The decision to fund the resettlement project separately, rather than treat resettlement as a
component of the dam project, had important strategic and practical implications. It
increased the visibility of resettlement issues; changed the orientation of the project from
relocation and mitigation to livelihood restoration and development, introducing new
concepts, priorities and institutional mechanisms; and ensured dedicated funding. The
project design drew lessons from other resettlement experience in China and applied
international best practices, as well as prevailing Chinese laws and regulations, resulting
in a strong initial design that set the framework for the participation of affected persons in
detailed site designs.

Table 8: Quality at Entry Assessment Criteria

Strategic Relevance and Approach                             Highly Satisfactory
Technical, Financial and Economic Aspects                    Highly Satisfactory
Poverty, Gender and Social Development Aspects               Highly Satisfactory
Environmental Aspects                                        Highly Satisfactory
Fiduciary Aspects                                            Highly Satisfactory
(Policy and) Institutional Aspects                           Highly Satisfactory
Implementation Arrangements                                  Highly Satisfactory
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements                       Satisfactory
Risk Assessment                                              Highly Satisfactory
Bank Inputs and Processes                                    Highly Satisfactory

4.70    This PPAR assesses quality at entry as highly satisfactory.

4.71    Quality of Supervision. The Bank carried out 24 supervisions during the life of
the project, including 16 site visits. Most site visits were at 6-month intervals, but there
were also longer intervals during critical periods--10 months (2), 11 months and 15
months--that were inconsistent with the demands of such a project. Members of the core
project team (engineer and social scientist) stayed with the project from project design
through the ICR, providing consistency and stability. With the combination of
appropriate skills and continuity, the team developed a strong rapport with counterparts,
which was reinforced by the high level of professionalism and attention to detail that
characterized their field visits. Counterparts at all levels expressed their admiration for
the energy, dedication, technical competence of the Bank team, as well as the utility of
their constructive, practical advice. Members of the Bank team served as valuable role
models for implementation staff and are given high marks for keeping the focus on
people, setting and maintaining high standards, and giving strong and collegial advice
and feedback.

4.72    Bank supervision focused on the quality of works as well as the development
impact of the project, particularly from the perspective of affected persons. Their field
discussions and supervision reports maintained a focus on project objectives and
identified key implementation issues. They worked with various stakeholders to identify
and resolve problems, repeatedly highlighting outstanding issues that remained to be
addressed. Supervision staff made good use of the independent monitoring reports, which

                                                    31


proved to be especially valuable as their quality improved over time. The supervision
missions added great value to implementing agencies, which was recognized and
appreciated. They traveled throughout the project area, meeting with a wide spectrum of
officials and affected people. Transition arrangements were part of the original design,
and adequate, but the client failed to meet follow-on agreements. It is not clear what more
the team could have done to avoid this occurrence, as it is common in such projects.
Quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory.

Table 9: Quality of Supervision Assessment Criteria

Focus on Development Impact                                               Highly satisfactory
Supervision of Fiduciary and Safeguard Aspects                            Highly satisfactory
Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes                              Satisfactory
Candor and Quality of Performance Reporting                               Highly satisfactory
Role in Ensuring Adequate Transition Arrangements*                        Satisfactory

* The government agreed with the Bank to continue independent M&E. It failed to do so, however, and the
Bank exerted no leverage at that point. As indicated below, this is a common occurrence that the Bank
needs to find a way to overcome.

4.73    Overall Bank Performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

4.74    Government Performance. The MWR and YRWHDC effectively engaged
provincial and local governments in developing the resettlement strategy and initial
resettlement plan, establishing a sound basis for the multi-level management and
implementation structure that was adopted and functioned effectively. Preparation started
with an initial inventory and census at the dam site and the inundation area in 1986,
which was updated at least three times before the final revised resettlement plan was
approved and funded by the State Council in 1998. Despite the fact that all aspects of the
project went through a lengthy review and approval process in the province and MWR,
the centralized implementation approached provided flexibility in detailed site design and
planning that could accommodate the obvious needs of resettlers. Implementation
guidelines and manuals helped maintain uniform standards and procedures.

4.75    The government adopted a complex project management and implementation
structure, and established and staffed implementation offices adequately. It prepared
useful guidelines to clarify the roles, responsibilities and accountability of different
players and successfully monitored operations and results. The project worked with a
huge number of people and sites over a large area, without compromising the complex
participation and consultation process that proved effective. The ICR identified a few
weaknesses and bottlenecks that occurred, such as the delay in getting approval of the
revised budget and delayed adoption of resettler privileges, particularly exemption from
taxes during the transition period, but these weaknesses do not appear to have reduced
impact significantly or detracted from the magnitude of the overall management task and
impressive performance of the YRWHCDRCO and provincial resettlement offices.

4.76    The project was implemented through well-equipped resettlement offices at the
provincial, municipality, country and township levels and changed attitudes to

                                                     32


resettlement at all levels. Although initial staff was primarily engineers, the expanded
offices included a broad range of specialists.34 In addition to thorough indoctrination in
Xiaolangdi resettlement concepts and principles, all resettlement officers received
training through mechanisms that range from university education to on-site field
training. Trained officers continue to work in resettlement offices of different levels of
government, where they will have a major role in administering the new national post-
resettlement program. Many others moved on to take the lead in implementing other
resettlement programs.35 Meanwhile, as a product of its successful participation in the
project, the independent monitoring and evaluation contractor, HCWCF, is in great
demand to advise and implement monitoring and evaluation programs in other parts of
China.36

4.77     At the time of the IEG assessment, two noteworthy deficiencies remained
unaddressed since project closure: the failure to establish a functioning post-resettlement
support fund acceptable to the Bank, and the failure to maintain the independent
monitoring program. The latter is particularly hard to understand, given its obvious value
during implementation and the equally obvious need to continue tracking outcomes to
assess the impact of development investments. In addition, the income from the
Xiaolangdi dam has steadily increased from Y150 million in 2000 to Y1,436 billion (US$
205 million) in 2006.37 A portion of this income could easily have supported continued
M&E. The last two deficiencies significantly call into question the government's
commitment to achieving "resettlement with development."

Table 10: Government Performance Assessment Criteria

Government ownership and commitment to developing                        Highly Satisfactory
objectives
Post-resettlement follow-up                                              Unsatisfactory
Enabling environment--policies, etc
Adequacy of beneficiary/stakeholder consultations, involvement           Highly Satisfactory
Readiness for implementation, institutional and staffing                 Highly Satisfactory
Timely resolution of implementation issues                               Satisfactory
Fiduciary                                                                Satisfactory
Adequacy of M&E, using M&E data in decision-making*                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Relationships and coordination with donors, others                       Highly Satisfactory
Adequacy of transition arrangements                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

* This assessment gives primary weight to the implementation phase.

4.78     Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory but with
some reservations relating to post-project M&E and support.




34 Interview with the former task team leader. IEG did not obtain data on the specialization of resettlement
officers,
35 Provincial resettlement officers and staff of the YRCCRO described with pride the varied career paths
of different resettlement specialists who had been trained and worked on the project.
36 Stated by a high-level Henan Province resettlement officer and confirmed in an interview with the
leader of the M&E team.
37. PPAR of Xiaolangdi I and II, January 2007, para 37.

                                              33


4.79    Implementing Agency. In this section, the implementing agency is considered to
be both YRWHDC and the Provincial Resettlement Offices that had major responsibility
for implementation. The project was adequately funded by the YRWHDC, based on
adequate data obtained during the 1995-1996 inventory, census and revision of unit
prices. To strengthen implementation, the YRWHDC kept the design institute actively
involved in the ongoing task of negotiating sites and preparing detailed designs, it
contracted HRCCRO to supervise construction and it appointed the HCWCF to carry out
the independent monitoring and evaluation program. The resettlement offices at
HHRWHDC and at the province and county levels, which actually implemented the
project, all made good use of the three contracted agents to identify problems and
weaknesses and to overcome them. Field staff at all levels were trained and re-trained as
needed, developing their participatory and financial management skills. The project
maintained good records of the status, entitlements and compensation of all participants,
all of whom had their own signed copies of their records. Eventually, implementing
offices recorded all grievances and either addressed them or moved them up the
hierarchy. Successful initiatives were shared and promulgated; unsuccessful ones were
dropped.

4.80    It was undoubtedly a great challenge to apply the principles of consultation,
participation, transparency and accountability during initial stages of the project, as it
often meant changing the behavior and attitudes of management, implementation staff,
local administrations and affected people. Nonetheless, as various participants gained
experience and started seeing positive results, they accepted the principles and refined
their applications. Their success ultimately led to the recent revision of national
resettlement regulations that mirror the Xiaolangdi experience.

4.81    Despite an extraordinary high level of success at resettlement, especially
compared to other resettlement programs, the project had development objectives that
failed to be met. The delayed completion of the Houhe and Wenmengtan schemes was a
failure to manage inter-agency differences. This would not necessarily be a major issue,
but it led to the premature relocation of resettlers to the Houhe and Wenmengtan areas
before the infrastructure was in place. This was a significant deviation from project
principles and undermined an otherwise impressive demonstration of "putting people
first" in resettlement. As mentioned above, the failure to establish an acceptable post-
resettlement support fund and the decision to terminate the independent monitoring
program have significantly compromised achieving the "development" objectives of the
project.

Table 11: Implementing Agency Performance Assessment Criteria

Agency Commitment to Achieving development objectives              Satisfactory
Adequacy of beneficiary consultations and involvement              Highly Satisfactory
Readiness for implementation, arrangements, staffing               Highly Satisfactory
Timely resolution of implementation issues                         Satisfactory
Fiduciary                                                          Satisfactory
Adequacy of M&E arrangements, use of M&E data                      Satisfactory
Continuity, follow-up                                              Moderately Satisfactory
Relationships and coordination with partners                       Satisfactory
Adequacy of transition arrangements                                Unsatisfactory

                                                 34



4.82    At project completion, 1,500 people from the Phase 2 group remained to be
resettled. They were eventually moved by the end of 2005 after the project was able to
negotiate micro-level arrangements that satisfied many small groups with different
interests. This effort took time, patience, imagination and flexibility and the successful
outcome is a tribute to the implementing agencies' continued commitment to consultation
and participation. The overall performance of the implementing agency is assessed as
satisfactory.

4.83    Overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory.


 5. Discussion and Lessons Learned

5.1     Involuntary resettlement is a hotly debated issue and rightly so, as few life
experiences have the profound, disruptive impact of involuntary resettlement on
individuals, families and communities. Moreover, there is virtually no example of
resettlement unanimously judged to be satisfactory by critics, advocates and practitioners.
Resettlement due to dam construction is surely the most anxiety-provoking and
threatening as it means that affected people watch familiar surroundings gradually
disappear and move to potentially totally unfamiliar environments, replete with great
uncertainty about housing, work, infrastructure, social networks and even spiritual
attachment. The Bank has struggled with the issue for many years, stimulated by both
internal and external pressures. Surely no Bank policy, with the possible exception of the
Indigenous Peoples Policy, has received as much scrutiny, debate and hand-wringing as
involuntary resettlement. The Bank's resettlement approach has gradually moved from an
objective of "do no harm" to "resettlement with development," which requires resettlers
to benefit directly from the investment that triggers the resettlement. Ultimately,
however, the borrower carries out the program, not the Bank.

5.2     The Bank's resettlement policy (now OP/BP 4.12), generally considered to be the
most comprehensive and effective policy of any bilateral or multilateral development
institution, is constantly under scrutiny in principle and practice. Following the report of
the World Commission on Dams,38 Bank policy has been criticized for not insisting that
dam construction should have "demonstrable public acceptance and negotiated
agreements." OP/BP 4.12 requires a resettlement program to ensure that resettler and host
community incomes be restored or increased following resettlement, and that affected
people share in the benefits of the investment. In its 2001 study of resettlement39 IEG
criticized projects for not restoring incomes, except in China, and said that resettlement
should be an element of a regional development plan and used as a "development
opportunity" to increase incomes and essentially to bring resettlers into the economic
mainstream. The IEG study also advocated stand-alone resettlement projects. One of the


38. Dams and Development: A New Framework for Decision-Making, 2000,
39. Involuntary Resettlement: Comparative Perspectives, by Robert Picciotto, Edward B. Rice and Warren
Van Wicklin.

                                                     35


acknowledged gurus of resettlement, Thayer Scudder, recently argued that Bank policy
and practice make at least five major mistakes:40

            incorrectly assuming that compensation can restore incomes;
            using income restoration as a standard ignores the fact that living standards drop
            during the planning process;
            pre-project surveys underestimate income and living standards, thus lowering
            the income restoration threshold;
            the focus on economic and social impacts ignores other socio-cultural effects,
            which can also be significant; and
            cash expenditures of resettlers inevitably increase and simple income restoration
            does not fully cover the new cash demands.

5.3       The Xiaolangdi project was designed to address the issues presented above. It
aimed to restore and increase incomes; it was to use a share of hydropower revenues to
establish a post-resettlement support fund for income remediation and development; it
updated baseline data to set realistic benchmarks for monitoring changes in income;41 it
moved whole villages in an attempt to maintain social networks and cultural bonds; and it
engaged an independent socio-economic monitor to keep abreast of both physical
progress and income impacts. Resettlers were given a modest transition allowance in
addition to compensation for residences and other assets. Although the adequacy of the
allowance has never been assessed to determine if it enabled resettlers to meet the new
cash expenditures of resettlers that Scudder describes, no grievances were reported
regarding the allowance, and thus it appears not to have been a problem.42

5.4       Brooke McDonald attempted to carry out an independent field assessment of
production and income in two Xiaolangdi villages.43 Working in one Phase-1 and one
Phase-2 resettlement villages she documented differences in production, employment and
incomes in the two villages before and after resettlement. Incomes were considerably
higher in one of the two villages before resettlement. After resettlement, incomes in the
poorer village increased (four years after resettlement), while incomes in the previously
richer village decreased (one year after resettlement). The findings and analysis highlight
an important point: villages that appear to be similar may have very different economies


40. Letter to Janet West, OECD, June 14, 2005.
41. The updated survey discovered that incomes and standard of living had increased during the planning
period, instead of decreasing as Scudder predicted, as restrictions on coal mining in the reservoir were
lifted in 1998 and many families took advantage of the changed policy to increase their incomes
significantly before their departure. The ICR and the final social monitoring report explain that this new
temporary income source therefore unrealistically raised the threshold for income restoration.
42 One of the early M&E reports expressed the concern that resettlers were using virtually all of their
resources to upgrade their residences and leaving no funds for productive investments (fertilizer, seeds, and
the like) or emergencies. This concern was echoed in the findings of the Expert Panel. In addition, when
asked what lessons were learned from the project, the last task team leader replied that a mechanism was
needed to limit investments in housing.
43. Webber and McDonald (World Development, April 2004). The paper modestly, and correctly,
discusses the limits of their claim to "independence," but the study is nonetheless valuable and the data
seem especially rich, given their caveat. See also their article "Involuntary Resettlement in China: A
Model of Good Practice?" FMR 14, July 2002.

                                                    36


which lead to divergent outcomes after resettlement under similar circumstances.
Detailed village-level resettlement planning and site design are not likely to highlight
such differences, or respond to them, even if they are undertaken in a highly participatory
manner.

5.5      This insight strongly underscores the need to have a post-resettlement mechanism
available to respond individually to the unique and unforeseen needs of communities and
groups within them. The Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project was unusual in its provision for
such a post-resettlement fund, and it had in place an effective monitoring system to help
identify communities needing further assistance, as well as those with ideas for
investments to grow the local economy and raise resettler incomes. The independent
social monitoring team was expected to document changes and highlight problems,
although the monitoring reports barely touched the surface. This was not an isolated issue
in China as the experience elsewhere shows.44

5.6      Although the final issues of post-resettlement monitoring and support remain to
be realized, the new post-resettlement support policy of the government should provide
an opportunity for Xiaolangdi resettler communities to be able to prepare and undertake
development initiatives that can have long-term benefit to affected people. This is in
marked contrast with other, unsuccessful resettlement programs for which the new
support policy was undoubtedly intended. In such cases, the post-resettlement fund is
needed just to relieve the suffering of affected peoples who were abandoned with
incomplete, inadequate facilities and opportunities. In Xiaolangdi, the need for
remediation is not obvious. Thus, instead of using the fund to overcome long-standing
deficiencies; it can be used to enable resettlers to create new development opportunities.

5.7      The government's failure to continue M&E after project closure is not unique to
Xiaolangdi in China or elsewhere. Likewise, this is not the only project for which
adequate post-project supervision might have reduced risks to development outcomes.
Rather than continue to repeat the unfortunate experience, the Bank needs to find ways to
allocate funds to allow continued supervision of projects with critical and unresolved
safeguard issues. Staff need to work with government to develop mechanisms to ensure
funding to meet their post-project obligations in these cases. Clearly, inadequately-funded
final agreements are doomed to failure. The Uganda Bwindi Forest and Mgahinga
National Park Project offers one example of an offshore trust fund to support post-project
activities; perhaps other examples are available, as well. It took years for the Bank to
recognize that resettlements projects must be kept open until the physical works are
completed. How long will it take for the Bank to realize that it must also stay involved
until the social outcomes are also achieved?




44. A post-resettlement fund for the Daguangba Multipurpose Project (1992-1998), was established in
2000, effective from 1997 to 2006, primarily to resolve the many remaining resettlement problems.
Contrary to normal practice, the Bank supervised the project a couple of years after project closure. A
supervision report in 2001 recommended that supervision continue for a few years to monitor income
restoration and ensure that the resettlement fund was allocated as agreed. Contrary to agreements with the
Bank, independent monitoring at Daguangba was terminated after project closure (similar to Xiaolangdi),
and the 2001 supervision recommended that the program be resumed.

                                                      37


5.8      The project influenced resettlement in China by helping to formulate clear
concepts and priorities, introduce new institutional mechanisms, develop operational
guidelines, and train staff. Some innovations were accepted easily, while others, such as
independent M&E were initially challenged by various officials and technical people.
Nevertheless, as the result of successful implementation, the new concepts and
mechanisms were incorporated into national policy; the guidelines were adopted and
applied systematically; and competent, trained staff have moved on to apply their skills,
experience, guidelines and concepts in new resettlement programs.45

5.9      The term used most commonly used to differentiate the Xiaolangdi Resettlement
Project from others is "people centered."46 Unlike previous programs, it gave priority to
the needs and ultimate status of both resettlers and host community members. Officials
up and down the hierarchy now use the term and a number of concrete manifestations of
the concept: consultation; participation of affected persons in design; fairness; respect for
individual rights; transparency in all areas, especially financial; special attention to the
vulnerable; and attention to the needs of host communities. These terms are now part of
the standard vocabulary of people dealing with resettlement issues, as is the priority given
to income restoration as the objective and ultimate measure of the success of a
resettlement program.

5.10     Ten lessons emerge from this project.

         Finance resettlement independently. Successful resettlement must be adequately
         funded and funding must be reliable, as both can be jeopardized if the
         resettlement budget competes with the construction budget in a project, especially
         if cost of either is higher than anticipated.
         Do not move people prematurely. Resettlement programs must ensure that people
         can regain control of their lives immediately, thus no one should be moved until
         resettlement sites are fully constructed and outfitted and the means for livelihood
         are in place.
         Inform fully and get feedback. Information and transparency were critical for
         gaining trust and obtaining ownership, in both the overall program and the
         resettler-host community agreements, which set the foundation for positive long-
         term relationships.
         Resettlers and host communities need mutual understanding. Resettler-host
         agreements set the stage for mutually beneficial relations and reduce both the
         anxiety and uncertainty of resettlers.
         Prepare for both resettlement and development. Achieving successful



45 Several officials cited the new structure downstream of Xiaolangdi and the South-North Water Transfer
Project as examples of resettlement using Xiaolangdi concepts and materials.
46. This term is an adaptation of the term initially used during project preparation--"putting people first".
The term was coined by Michael Cernea and gained international recognition as the title of his landmark
book that recounted various development experiences and argued for a participatory approach to all
development activities. Putting People First: Sociological Variables in Rural Development. (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1985). The World Bank's first sociologist and an internationally recognized
resettlement expert, Cernea served as peer reviewer for the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project.

                                     38


resettlement with real development requires at least two different sets of skills and
competencies, which an implementing agency should have available from the
beginning.
Set standards and be flexible. High-level oversight and local-level
implementation of this massive resettlement program set uniform standards and
permitted the flexibility needed to respond to the needs of resettlers and host
communities.
Update, Update, Update. The scope and budget of a resettlement and
development program needs to be updated periodically to encompass the
dynamism of communities and ensure that adequate funding is available to meet
the legitimate, changing needs of affected people
Follow up, as relocation is only the start. Under the best of circumstances full
readjustment can take years and some income restoration and improvement
strategies will fail. Mechanisms should be in place after resettlement to address
readjustment problems and plan development initiatives. It is especially important
to continue independent monitoring to follow progress, spot problems and
highlight priority areas for development support, for several years following
resettlement.
Arrange financing for post-project M&E and supervision before closing. The
Bank needs to find ways to allocate funds to allow continued supervision of
projects that have critical and unresolved safeguard issues. Staff need to work
with government to develop mechanisms to ensure funding to meet their post-
project obligations.
Great care needs to given to establish a project counterfactual to establish
socially equitable levels of income restoration. A before and after approach was
flawed as it did not make allowances for the general improvements in welfare and
incomes. Thus while project resettlers did improve their incomes over baseline
levels in most instances their subsequent income growth was slower than that in
host communities. And is not known how host communities' income growth
related to other communities in the same region that were unaffected by the
project

                                           39                                    Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project 2605-CHA

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                        Appraisal        Actual or       Actual as % of
                                        estimate      current estimate appraisal estimate

Total project costs                       571.2            840.9               147

Loan amount                               111.9            111.9               100

Cofinancing                                0.0             0.0.                n.a.

Cancellation                               0.0              0.0                n.a.


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                  FY95    FY96   FY97  FY98  FY99     FY00    FY01   FY02 FY03     FY04

Appraisal         15.00   15.00  25.00 30.00 15.00     7.00   3.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
estimate
(US$M)

Actual (US$M)     16.52   28.14  14.66 15.55 14.89     5.28   0.01   14.77    2.00 0.04

Actual as % of     110    188     59    18     52      75       0      --      --  --
appraisal

Date of final disbursement: 12/07/2003


Project Dates
                                              Original                    Actual

Concept Review                               06/23/1993                  06/23/1993

Appraisal                                    10/01/1993                  10/01/1993

Board approval                               04/14/1994                  04/14/1994

Effectiveness                                08/31/1994                  09/22/1994

Closing date                                 12/31/2001                  12/31/2003


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Staff Weeks              US$ (`000)
Identification/Preparation                                                 146.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                        -
Supervision                                                                669.0
ICR                                                                          -
Total                                                                      845.0

                                             40                                  Annex A



Mission Data

         Date      No. of      Specializations represented      Implementation Development
   (month/year)    persons                                        Progress      Objective

Identification/            Task Manager ; Anthropologist ;
Preparation                Assistant Anthropologist ;
06/1993                    Institutional Specialist ;
                           Resettlement Specialist
Appraisal/
Negotiations
10/1993            8       Task Manager; Engineers (2);
                           Resettlement Specialists (2)
                           Anthropologist


04/1994            6       Task Manager; Lawyer;
                           Resettlement Specialist;
                           Anthropologist; Irrigation Engineer;
                           Economist


Supervision


10/1994            3       Task Team Leader;                    S              HS
                           Financial/Training Specialist;
                           Irrigation Engineer


05/1995            3       Task Team Leader; Irrigation         HS             HS
                           Engineer; Anthropologist


11/1995            3       Task Team Leader; Irrigation         HS             HS
                           Engineer, Economist


05/1996            2       Task Team Leader; Irrigation         HS             HS
                           Engineer


11/1996            3       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                           Specialist; Irrigation Engineer


12/1997            3       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                           Specialist; Financial Specialist
                           t
06/1998            4       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                           Specialist; Irrigation Engineer;
                           Anthropologist


11/1998            5       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                           Specialist; Social Development
                           Specialist; Environment Specialist;
                           Irrigation Engineer

                                           41                                  Annex A




       Date       No. of     Specializations represented      Implementation Development
   (month/year)  persons                                        Progress      Objective

01/1999          9       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                         Specialists (2); Procurement
                         Specialist; Financial Specialist;
                         Auditor; Irrigation Engineer; Social
                         Development Specialist; Economist


09/1999          8       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                         Specialists (3); Compensation
                         Specialist; Financial Specialist;
                         Irrigation Engineer; Auditor


12/200           8       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                         Specialists (3); Social Development
                         Specialist; Environment Specialist;
                         Irrigation Specialist; Financial
                         Management Specialist


10/2001          9       Task Team Leader; Resettlement       S              S
                         Specialist; Engineer; Social
                         Development Specialists (2);
                         Financial Management Specialist;
                         Environment Specialist;
                         Agronomist; Cultural Property
                         Specialist


05/2002          9       Task Team Leader; Engineer;          S              S
                         Resettlement Specialist;
                         Environment Specialist; Social
                         Development Specialists (2);
                         Cultural Property Specialist;
                         Economist; Rural Development
                         Specialist


11/2002          6       Task Team Leader; Engineer;          S              S
                         Environment Specialist; Social
                         Development Specialist;
                         Economists (2)
10/2003          5       Task Team Leader; Social             S              S
                         Development Specialists (2);
                         Resettlement Specialist; Economist
ICR
                 9       Task Team Leader; Social
                         Development Specialists (2);
                         Resettlement Specialists (2);
                         Economists (2); Environment
                         Specialist; Irrigation Engineer

                              42                           Annex A


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:

FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS

                Operation     Credit no.   Amount       Board date
                                         (US$ million)

      None

                                              43                                  Annex B


Annex B. Resettlement Criteria for the Xiaolangdi
Project

1.      The population subject to resettlement should not only maintain its current
standard of living but it should also directly share in project benefits.

2.      The resettling transition period should be minimized and adequate support for
both social and economic development should be provided during the transition period.

3.      Resettlement should achieve the complete social and economic reestablishment of
those dislocated, on a viable productive basis through the creation of project-faded new
industrial, service sector and agricultural employment activities.

4.      Insofar as changes of occupation are necessary, the replacement opportunities
should properly recognize the social, communal, cultural, educational, and vocational
profile of those affected, and any changes in economic activities should be introduced on
a voluntary basis.

5.      Resettlement of the agricultural population should be land-based wherever
possible.

6.      Land sharing with host villages should be based on the principle of must be
acceptance and should be planned so as to provide higher incomes (from all sources) for
relocatees and hosts.

7.      The resettlement plans should have popular acceptance and the affected
population should be consulted.

8.      Resettlement distances should be minimized and opportunities for resettling entire
communities and natural groups should be provided.

9.      House and dwelling size allocation at new town and village sites should show
improved standards and conditions.

10.     The resettlement plans for towns, villages and enterprises should minimize the
loss of existing agricultural lands.

11.     The resettlement plans should have adequate institutional arrangements to ensure
effective and timely implementation and adequate monitoring and evaluation
arrangements.

12.     The financial resources to carry out the relocation and development proposals
should be available when and where required Development plans should be prepared in
concert with relocation plans.

13.     The impact of resettlement on the natural and socioeconomic host environment
should be considered acceptable.

                                             44                                  Annex B


14.     Only those enterprises that will be economically viable should be considered for
relocation and the compensation for the assets of the nonviable enterprises should be used
to create new employment opportunities.

15.     Inundated items of infrastructure such as roads, bridges, etc., should be replaced
so that the previous level of service is maintained or improved.

16.     If sharing farmlands does not result in achieving target incomes, some of the labor
force should be offered non-agricultural employment opportunities.

17.     Family members of the employees of affected state enterprises and institutions
can go into non-agricultural sectors on a voluntary basis. The units of local governments,
once compensated, shall be responsible for such employment arrangements.

                                     45          Annex C


Annex C. Maps


Map C 1 Flooded Areas and Population Affected


                                     47               Annex C


Map C 2: Agricultural Net Income and Flooded Areas


                                       49                       Annex D


Annex D. Project-Affected Towns, Villages and People

Table D1. Inundated Villages and Towns
                                 SAR                     Actual
    Item     Unit   Henan      Shanxi    Total   Henan   Shanxi Total
Affected     No.         8         4        12      8       4      12
towns
Affected     No.        173       54       227     217     66     283
villages
Affected     No.     133,616     39,255  172,871 130,440 42,047  172,487
population

                                                             50                                      Annex D




Table D2. Movement of Rural Resettlers
                        1992-  1995   1996  1997 1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003 2004 2005 2010-  Total
                        1994                                                                  2011
   Dam Site     SAR     9944                                                                         9944
               Actual   11652                                                                       11652
   Phase 1      SAR            7230   7230  7230                                                    21690
               Actual          11549  22776 8100                                                    42425
   Phase 2      SAR                              26122 26122 26122 26122 26122                      130612
               Actual                            16347 45771 30658 18262   0    0        1676 17924 112714
   Phase 3      SAR                                                                                 17924
               Actual                                                    7650  7850 1700            17200
    Total       SAR     9944   7230   7230  7230 26122 26122 26122 26122 26124                17924 180170
               Actual   11652  11549  22776 8100 16347 45771 30658 18262 7650  7939 1700 1676       184080

                                             51                                  Annex E


Annex E. Social Principles Applied That Mitigated
Social Risks

    The following are the most significant social principles embedded in the project and
the mechanisms to achieve them that effectively mitigated social risks:

    Choice and Voice--resettlers were consulted on site locations and participated in
    preparing the site designs once they were satisfied with the selection

    Equity--entitlements were clear and uniformly applied

    Fairness--resettlers participated in preparing the asset inventory and were aware of
    compensation levels, which were updated by 1997, from earlier inventories in 1986
    and 1992

    Informed Consent--relocation and land allocations were based on a signed agreement
    between the resettler village and host community

    Specific Agreement--relocation followed a signed agreement between the local
    resettlement office and each family, there were no forced relocations

    Responsiveness--grievances, primarily regarding the quality of allocated land, were
    recorded and resolved quickly (fully in place during the last four years)

    Transparency--compensation for households and allocations of compensation funds
    to villages were posted on public bulletin boards (the practice was implemented
    midway through implementation)

    Asset Replacement--resettlers were compensated for the value of their homes with
    the expectation that they would end up with one of comparable value (within the new
    context); new land was allocated on a per capita basis, understood to be smaller than
    their original household plots, but more productive. Land location and quality was
    the most prevalent issue raised in grievance procedures

    Preparedness--resettlers were expected to restore or improve incomes on smaller
    plots by growing new, higher-value crops, which required new information and skills;
    there were programs to prepare the farmers, but it is not clear how widespread or
    adequate they were or when their full impact was expected to be realized.
    Presumably post-resettlement support funds would be used to overcome problems
    caused by over-optimistic assessments of the crop choices, farmers' skills and the
    training and advice provided

    Completeness--all village facilities and infrastructure were to be completed, and land
    improvements made, before people were relocated. This was mostly adhered to,
    except in the case of Houhe and Wenmengtan and a number of Phase 2 and Phase 3
    villages, and was assiduously tracked by independent social monitoring

                                                  52                                            Annex E


    Customization--resettlers managed residential construction individually or in groups,
    which assured ownership and permitted them to use their own resources to add extra
    features

    Administrative Continuity--resettlement was by administrative units, with existing
    administration having a major role in preparing for the move and settling into the new
    environment

    Community--resettlers moved as whole communities, maintaining social networks,
    although people were free to opt out, if desired

    Kinship--residential sites were usually allocated by lots, but kinship units were kept
    together, if desired, especially inter-generational households

    Inclusion of the Vulnerable--vulnerable people were identified and given special
    assistance as needed to ensure that they were settled satisfactorily

    Financial Independence--the project explicitly aimed to enable people to restore their
    livelihoods and, through village initiatives, identify viable alternatives

    Safety-net--funds were available to address problems of adjustment47

    Benefit-sharing--the post-resettlement fund, expected to come from hydropower
    revenues, was intended to be used to overcome deficiencies in planning and
    implementation and to create new development opportunities. Instead honoring the
    commitment to share benefits, the owner is relying on the Government to fund post-
    resettlement support.

    Readjustment--inevitably, some resettlement sites and livelihood arrangements are
    unable to meet the needs of resettlers. Although the M&E program was supposed to
    maintain up-to-date project-wide data to spot problems and propose remedial
    measures, officials will have to rely on village administration data to serve that
    purpose.




47 The final M&E report provided data on the amount of funds spent for assistance to the vulnerable, but it
did not assess their efficacy or adequacy, but it did not mention funding for general hardships, such as
caused by delays in completing irrigation and land improvement in Wenmengtan. Provincial resettlement
officials indicated that they had funding provide food and other support to resettlers facing crises.

                                                                       53                                                                 Annex F




Annex F. Resettlers Incomes 1994-2003

Monitoring Results of Resettlers' Income ­ Results from the Xiaolangdi Monitoring Evaluation Final Report (Table 4.1)
                                                                                                        Resettlers' net income per capita (yuan)
No. County    Village   Sample amounts   Population  Style  Relocation year Relocation session
                                                                                              1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
1   Yuanqu    Anwo     10                   49       Inside     1999               2.1                               1367          2376 1110 1381 1580
2   Yuanqu   Dongtan           9            50       Inside     1999               2.1                               1771          1313 1382 1045 1384
3   Yuanqu   Gucheng          15            85       Inside     1999               2.1                               1658          1648 1274 1607 1783
4   Yuanqu   Guanjia          10            42       Inside     1999               2.1                               1631          1198 1051 2556 2890
5   Yuanqu   Huchun           10            47       Inside     1999               2.1                               1567          1749 1071 1915 1899
6   Yuanqu    Mawan           10            51       Inside     1999               2.1                               1229          1554 972 819 1158
7   Yuanqu   Ruichun           9            44       Inside     1999               2.1                               1928          1074 511 707 1029
8   Yuanqu    Xiabo           10            48       Inside     1999               2.1                               1600          1965 1492 1626 2056
9   Yuanqu  Xincheng2         10            46       Inside     1999               2.1                               1967          1472 2704 1467 3086
10  Yuanqu  Xincheng1          8            31       Inside     1999               2.1                               2332          2427 2410 2334 3306
11  Yuanqu    Yaotou          10            48       Inside     1999               2.1                               1872          1526 922 943 1892
12  Yuanqu   Yunling           8            36       Inside     1999               2.1                               1853          1617 1137 1457 1566
13  Yuanqu   Caojiapo         11            49       Inside     2000               2.2                                      1865          1829 1306 1285
14  Yuanqu    Motou            9            41       Inside     2000               2.2                                      1733          1558 1101 1801
15  Yuanqu  Xinzhuang         10            53       Inside     2000               2.2                                      1831          2599 2310 1976
16  Yuanqu    Zaili           10            42       Inside     2001               2.3                                             1978         1676 1596
17  Yuanqu   Xiaozhao         10            49       Inside     2001               2.3                                             1332         1138 1428
18  Yuanqu     Yuli           10            39       Inside     2001               2.3                                             2063         2407 1598
19  Yuanqu     Xiama          10            49       Inside     2001               2.3                                             1265         1563 1531
20  Yuanqu   Xiechun          16            70       Inside     2002                3                                                     1652      1343
21  Yuanqu    Yuzi            10            40       Inside     2002                3                                                     1324      1069
22  Yuanqu   Shangbo          15            63       Inside     2002                3                                                     1367      1112

                                                              54                                                                       Annex F




                                                                                                  Resettlers' net income per capita (yuan)
No. County  Village  Sample amounts Population Style  Relocation year Relocation session
                                                                                        1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
23  Yuanqu Yanjiahe       12           53      Inside     2002                3                                                     1470      1288
24 Mianchi  Shaohua       10           40      Inside     1999               2.1                               1755          1649 3324 2877 2689
25 Mianchi Banchun        12           52      Inside     1999               2.1                               1981          1121 1199 1879 1726
26 Mianchi  Guanjia       10           45      Inside     1999               2.1                               1354          1389 1360 2244 1988
27 Mianchi Shaoyang       10           47      Inside     1999               2.1                               1792          1143 801 1804 2064
28 Mianchi  Yangjia        9           38      Inside     1999               2.1                               1357          1354 664 975 1125
29 Mianchi  Yingxin        9           36      Inside     1999               2.1                               1309          1357 1342 1936 1459
30 Mianchi Renchun2       11           54      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1730          1241 1058 1875
31 Mianchi Renchun1       11           53      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1730           776 1058 1530
32 Mianchi  Beiping       10           46      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1589         1239 1645
33 Mianchi  Nanping       10           48      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1589         1632 2123
34 Mianchi  Huaipa        15           64      Inside     2002                3                                                     1761      1417
35 Mianchi  Bailang       15           57      Inside     2002                3                                                     2068      1959
36  Xin'an   Hexi         10           42      Inside     1997                1                   1110          745 1219 1266                  1176
37  Xin'an Dazhang        10           41      Inside     1997                1                   1098          798 1013 1184                  1707
38  Xin'an  Magou          9           32      Inside     1997                1                   1083         1186 1330 1474                  1991
39  Xin'an   Tadi         10           41      Inside     1997                1                   1109         1467 1649 1752                  1850
40  Xin'an  Lingqu        10           34      Inside     1997                1                   799           877 975 1041                   1376
41  Xin'an Huangpo        10           44      Inside     1997                1                   995           940 924 1683                   1243
42  Xin'an  Huailin       10           41      Inside     1997                1                   1013          994 1129 1265                  1248
43  Xin'an Yancang        10           41      Inside     1997                1                   902           971 1121 1273                  1371
44  Xin'an Caozhuang      15           65      Inside     1999               2.1                               1810          1081 1539 1811 1308
45  Xin'an  Shiqu          6           30      Inside     1999               2.1                               2015          1635 1909 2331 2512
46  Xin'an Wangfen         5           26      Inside     1999               2.1                               1590          735 1513 1396 1224
47  Xin'an  Yunshui       10           44      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1475         2105 1987
48  Xin'an Tanzigou       11           56      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1389         2022 2149

                                                                55                                                                        Annex F




                                                                                                    Resettlers' net income per capita (yuan)
No. County  Village   Sample amounts Population Style   Relocation year Relocation session
                                                                                          1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
49  Xin'an   Mewu           9           34      Inside      2002                3                                                     1915      1811
50  Xin'an  Taishang       10           53      Inside      2002                3                                                     1600      1293
51 Mengjin  Dongdi         10           40      Inside      1999               2.1                               2322          1547 1539 1372 2380
52 Mengjin  Meiyao         22          103      Inside      1999               2.1                               1118          683 1089 1109 1566
53 Mengjin  Guanghua       10           52      Inside      2001               2.3                                             1218         880 1898
54 Mengjin  Zhouli         10           49      Inside      1997                1                   1161         1037 1147 1183                 1204
55 Mengjin  Qinghe         10           42      Inside      1997                1                   1179         1649 1858 1909                 1702
56 Mengjin  Xiagou         16           71      Inside      2002                3                                                     1766      1726
57 Mengjin Xiaolangdi       9           28      Inside      1994         The dam area     788 3340 3100 2350                                     1286
58 Mengjin Liuzhuang        9           35      Inside      1994         The dam area     747 2805 3150 2500                                     1225
59 Mengjin Shiyuanpo        9           37      Inside      1994         The dam area     926 2670 2935 2300                                     1519
60 Mengjin  Shimen          9           33      Inside      1994         The dam area     862 2930 2755 1500                                     1414
61 Mengjin  Heqing         10           45      Inside      1994         The dam area     884 2745 3140 3050                                     1450
62 Wenxian  Yandong        10           44      Outside     1997                1                   902           888 1188 1113                 2109
63 Wenxian   Hexi          10           45      Outside     1997                1                   1110          639 938 759                   2781
64 Wenxian  Longqu         10           40      Outside     1997                1                   799           769 1004 842                  2051
65 Wenxian  Cangtou        14           67      Outside     1999               2.1                               1993          1065 1848 1780 2328
66 Wenxian   Mayu           9           37      Outside     1999               2.1                               1142          1358 1381 1648 2218
67 Wenxian   Shiqu         11           45      Outside     1999               2.1                               1650          903 1461 1736 2315
68 Wenxian  Taijian        15           68      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1616          1974 2016 2308
69 Wenxian   Xigou         16           74      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1448          1126 1176 1740
70 Wenxian Xiashijing      14           66      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1615          1641 1748 1822
71 Wenxian   Beiye         15           75      Outside     2001               2.3                                             1187         1301 1262
72 Wenxian  Peiling        10           42      Outside     2001               2.3                                             1627         1784 1842
73 Mengzhou Beichun         9           34      Outside     1997                1                   1172          744 951 1019                  1556

                                                                  56                                                                       Annex F




                                                                                                      Resettlers' net income per capita (yuan)
No. County   Village    Sample amounts Population Style   Relocation year Relocation session
                                                                                            1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
74 Mengzhou   Tadi           10           36      Outside     1997                1                   1109          591 656 685                    1508
75 Mengzhou   Yanxi          10           47      Outside     1997                1                   902          1119 1406 1668                  2326
76 Mengzhou   Xiwo           10           36      Outside     1997                1                   1027         1013 1131 1361                  1566
77 Mengzhou Caozhuang        13           51      Outside     1999               2.1                               1838          1272 1957 1614 1868
78 Mengzhou  Chenwan         16           65      Outside     1999               2.1                               1901          1412 1262 1433 2151
79 Mengzhou Hengshan         23          116      Outside     1999               2.1                               1773          1418 1564 1947 1722
80 Mengzhou   Gaoya          12           49      Outside     1999               2.1                               1367          1228 1237 1502 1274
81 Mengzhou  Shishang        13           54      Outside     1999               2.1                               1764          1350 1647 1224 1741
82 Mengzhou  Zhuyuan         15           80      Outside     1999               2.1                               1768          1425 1799 1460 1899
83 Mengzhou  Yunshui         13           59      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1475          1414 1504 1441
84 Mengzhou  Shichun         15           61      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1306          1500 1671 1527
85 Mengzhou Xuzhuang         10           40      Outside     2001               2.3                                             1750         1561 1816
86  Yima    Kuangkou         20           87      Outside     1997                1                   1885         1050 1714 2509                  2610
87 Yuanyang  Xinyang         10           38      Outside     1997                1                   900           961 1665 1239                  1601
88 Yuanyang  Cangxi          13           59      Outside     1999               2.1                               1733          1037 1284 1515 2091
89 Yuanyang   Heyao          10           49      Outside     1999               2.1                               1402          1050 1062 1222 1979
90 Zhongmou  Xuchun          14           63      Outside     1999               2.1                               1296          763 1245 1918 1964
91  Kaifeng  Heshui          15           70      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1680          1589 1393 1768
92  Kaifeng  Shaofeng        15           67      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1755          1160 1202 1954
93  Kaifeng Yangshao         15           57      Outside     2000               2.2                                      1357          1213 1495 1521
94  Jiyuan  Tongshuling       8           47      Inside      1994         The dam area     990 2727 4296 3880                                     1187
95  Jiyuan   Liaowu          10           45      Inside      1994         The dam area     1016 1756 2452 3100                                    1060
96  Jiyuan   Qiaogou         10           39      Inside      1994         The dam area     953 1725 2399 2589                                     1612
97  Jiyuan  Shuangtang        8           35      Inside      1994         The dam area     981 1069 1241 2010                                     1566
98  Jiyuan    Liandi         10           39      Inside      1994         The dam area     756 1120 2199 2523                                     1867
99  Jiyuan    Luoyu           9           45      Inside      1997                1                   1068         2442 2153 2430                  1317

                                                               57                                                                        Annex F




                                                                                                   Resettlers' net income per capita (yuan)
No. County   Village  Sample amounts Population Style  Relocation year Relocation session
                                                                                         1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
100 Jiyuan  Liang'an        8           35      Inside     1997                1                   1155         1721 1698 2023                 1819
101 Jiyuan   Baigou         9           39      Inside     1997                1                   1072         2209 1965 2643                 1620
102 Jiyuan  Niuwan          8           36      Inside     1997                1                   1198         2358 2242 2149                 1296
103 Jiyuan Changquan        9           38      Inside     1997                1                   1054         1444 1239 1680                 1235
104 Jiyuan   Zhuyu         10           50      Inside     1997                1                   1058         2248 1687 1894                 1091
105 Jiyuan  Guanyang        9           49      Inside     1997                1                   968          1612 1663 1096                 1238
106 Jiyuan   Dajiao        10           50      Inside     1997                1                   1034         1996 1435 1543                 1449
107 Jiyuan   Jiaodui        8           33      Inside     1997                1                   956          1915 1793 2046                 1023
108 Jiyuan Zhangling       10           51      Inside     1997                1                   1003         2181 2209 1128                 1764
109 Jiyuan  Lujialing      10           40      Inside     1997                1                   939           780 909 1354                  1634
110 Jiyuan Liuzhuang       11           59      Inside     1997                1                   973           664 1020 1415                 1209
111 Jiyuan   Shiniu         8           38      Inside     1997                1                   898          1058 1129 1507                 2046
112 Jiyuan Dahengling      11           54      Inside     1999               2.1                               1103          2142 1649 1846 1769
113 Jiyuan    Dayu         14           67      Inside     1999               2.1                               1753          1926 1660 1682 1930
114 Jiyuan  Dongpo         16           74      Inside     1999               2.1                               1679          1769 1624 2233 1800
115 Jiyuan   Jianbei       10           44      Inside     1999               2.1                               1252          1839 1431 1825 1793
116 Jiyuan  Jinggou        11           57      Inside     1999               2.1                               1666          1483 1351 1825 1902
117 Jiyuan  Maotian        10           34      Inside     1999               2.1                               1621          1690 1534 1856 1943
118 Jiyuan   Xiling        10           45      Inside     1999               2.1                               1721          1946 1615 2434 2041
119 Jiyuan  Xiaogou        10           44      Inside     1999               2.1                               1596          2296 2168 2251 1899
120 Jiyuan  Baigeda        15           71      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1682          1411 1565 2382
121 Jiyuan Huangzhuang     10           54      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1774          2270 1710 1713
122 Jiyuan  Wuligou        10           52      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1727          1615 1347 1752
123 Jiyuan    Xipo         10           42      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1242          2337 2278 2401
124 Jiyuan Shanbeitou      15           69      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1740          2425 1446 2926
125 Jiyuan Xuezhuang       17           82      Inside     2000               2.2                                      1877           984 1626 2620

                                                              58                                                                       Annex F




                                                                                                  Resettlers' net income per capita (yuan)
No. County  Village  Sample amounts Population Style  Relocation year Relocation session
                                                                                        1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
126 Jiyuan  Gaogou        10           47      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1755         1672 2335
127 Jiyuan  Fengnan       10           47      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1869         2037 2485
128 Jiyuan  Huweihe       10           46      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1991         2282 1999
129 Jiyuan Wangguai       10           47      Inside     2001               2.3                                             1146         1317 1504
130 Jiyuan Dakuiling      10           49      Inside     2002                3                                                     2110       1892
131 Jiyuan  Shanghe       12           57      Inside     2002                3                                                     1792       1402
132 Jiyuan Xishuitun       9           36      Inside     2002                3                                                     1707       1182
133 Jiyuan  Luohe         11           50      Inside     2002                3                                                     1233       981

