Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13697
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL FORESTRY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2828-MA)
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
Agricultural and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Name of Currency = Ringitt ( M$)
Currency Exchange Rate
March 1987 June 1992
US$1.00  =  M$2.56       M$2.60
M$1.00   =  US$0.39    US$0.38
Government of Malaysia
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights And Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations & Acronyms
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
CGIAR    -   Consultative Group for International
Agricultural Research
CIFOR    -   Center for International Forestry Research
FD       -   Forest Department
FRIM     -   Forest Research Institute of Malaysia
ICRAF    -    International Center for Research in
Agroforestry
MFRDB    -   Malaysian Forestry Research and
Development Board
PWD      -   Public Works Department
RAC      -   Research Advisory Committee of the MFRDB
FELDA    -   Federal Land Development Authority
SAFODA   -   Sabah Forestry Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off0oe of Dreatow-etu
Opeitkne Evalution
November 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUITIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Malaysia
National Forestry Research Development Project (Loan 2828-MA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malaysia-National Forestry Research
and Development Project (Ln. 2828-MA), approved in 1987. Parts I and m were prepared by the
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office and Part II by the Borrower. The quality of the PCR is
satisfactory.
The project supported institutional development of the newly-established Forestry
Research Institute of Malaysia (FRIM).  Specific objectives were to support research in
environmental science and management of moist tropical forests and forest plantations; staff
development through training and fellowships in Malaysia and abroad; and construction of
administrative and technical facilities.
Despite a slow start, the main objectives were met. Limitations on Bank support for
recurrent expenditure on forestry research had to be relaxed and delays were incurred due to
unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement procedures. Support for integration of Malaysia's national
and state forestry research agendas was less effective than expected. On the other hand, FRIM has
emerged as a leading, global tropical forestry research institute with committed support from
Government and international donors. Seven covenants aimed at ensuring quality in FRIM's research
program, staffing, training, and consultancy were fully complied with.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, institutional development as
substantial, and sustainability as likely. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document hes a restricted distribution end may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Proiect Comoletion Report
Malaysia
National Forestry Research And Development Proiect
(Ln 2828-MA)
Table Of Contento
Paae No.
Preface  ..i
Evaluation Summary ................... .                                           iii
PART I:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity .1
2. Background .1
3.    Project Objectives and Descriptions.                              3
4.    Project Organization and Management.                              4
5.  Project Implementation.                                             4
6. Project Results.                                                     5
7.  Project Suotainability.                                             8
8. IDA Performance.                                                     8
9.  Borrower's Performance.                                             8
10. Project Relationship.                                               8
11. Consulting Services .9
12. Project Documentation and Data.                                     9
PART II:  BORROWERS'S COMMENTS .10
PART III:   STATISTICAL TABLES
1.    Table 1. Related Bank Loans Credits .11
2.  Table 2. Project Timetable .11
3.    Table 3. Loan Disbursements
4.    Table 4. Project Costs and Financing:
Table 4A.Project Cost   ..12
Table 4B.Project Financing   ..13
5.    Table 5. Status of Legal Covenants .14
6.    Table 6. Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  . . .              15
7.    Table 7. Bank Resources: Missions .16
MAP          IBRD 20233
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL FORESTRY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2828-MA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National
Forestry Research and Development Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 2828-MA in
the amount of US$9.0 million was approved on August 14, 1987 and made effective
on September 10, 1987.
The Loan was closed on 30 June 1992 (as per the original Loan
Agreement).  Total disbursement amounted to US$7.0 million compared with the
original loan amount of US$9.0 million.
In response to a request received from GOM in January 1992, US$2.0
million of the loan were cancelled. The rationale for this request was that by
1992, the Forestry Research Institute of Malaysia (FRIM) had become an attractive
partner for international grant aid-funded research projects from many different
overseas institutions and donors. It no longer needed Bank funding and technical
assistance in the amounts determined at appraisal and loan negotiation.
This PCR was prepared by EAIAN based on material collected in the
course of a final supervision mission and in the project file. The Borrower's
comments are included as Appendix 1 to this PCR.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL FORESTRY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2828-MA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.           The National Forestry Research and Development Project was the first
free-standing forestry research project in the Bank. It was conceived as a model
to be developed for major tropical forestry countries in general and as a
catalyst to integrate Malaysia's somewhat loose network of forestry research
organizations. Project identification coincided with a growing awareness of the
need for a change in direction in tropical forestry research from production to
sustained management for multiple purposes with special emphasis on preservation
of biodiversity. The main objectives of the project were to improve and reorient
forestry research and development by strengthening FRIM's institutional capacity
to carry out an expanded research program in ecology, natural forest management,
plantation forestry, timber processing, forest economics and forest policy.
2.           The project's main components included:
(i)    support for implementation of an agreed research program
through   strengthening  of  FRIM's   scientific   staffing
capability, provision of technical assistance, delivery of
services, operation and maintenance of equipment and
establishment of research plantations;
(ii)   construction  and  improvement  of  civil  works  at  FRIM
headquarters and field stations;
(iii)  provision of vehicles and equipment for FRIM activities; and
(iv)   training of FRIM staff.
3.           Special loan covenants that were expected to promote achievement of
project objectives included:
(i)    referral to the Bank of a long term research plan with
staffing and budgetary requirements;
(ii)   selection of research projects that were satisfactory to the
Bank;



- iv -
(iii)  appointment  of  scientific  staff with qualifications  and
experience satisfactory to the Bank;
(iv)   appointment  of  external  consultants  with  qualifications
acceptable to the Bank to assist in the implementation of
research projects and in training of FRIM staff;
(v)    implementation of an approved training program;
(vi)   appointment of an Independent panel to carry out a mid-term
review of FRIM's research program; and
(vii)  appointment of a second panel of experts to carry out a final
review of the project.
4.           The decision by the Bank to support this FRIM project was timely and
appropriate, given the major expansion of both natural forest management and
plantation establishment envisaged in Malaysia's Fifth Development Plan (1986-90)
and the weakness of the technical basis for such expansion.
Project Design and Organization
5.           The project design was a time-slice of FRIM's projected expansion
program in which Bank financing was to support all activities. A special feature
which was later to prove troublesome for implementation was the high percentage
of recurrent costs in FRIM's total expenditure. This occurred because FRIM had
inherited substantial land, buildings and other facilities from the Forest
Department when it was established as a separate entity. Apart from a few items
of civil works, most expenditures were for operational activities. No special
project management unit was created and project implementation was to be
undertaken by the regular management of FRIM which was accountable to the
Minister of Primary Industries through the Malaysian Forestry Research and
Development Board representing State and Federal Forest Departments, Timber
Producer Organizations and Universities.
Implementation
6.           Total project costs during the five year project period 1987-92 were
estimated at appraisal at M$95.5 million (US$37.3 million) . The Bank loan of
US$9.0 million was intended to finance the foreign exchange requirements of the
project. The borrower was GOM. FRIM was subject to normal GOM financial control
and audit procedures that were acceptable to the Bank.
7.           Actual project costs were US$7 million with US$2 million being
cancelled. An unusual feature of the project was the financing arrangement with
the Borrower financing 90% of FRIM's projected research program costs and the
Bank only 10%. This was calculated to be the foreign exchange content of the
overall program. FRIM needed Bank assistance more early in the project but the
restrictive financing arrangements effectively constrained support to a low
level. This was compounded by FRIM's unfamiliarity with the Bank's very complex
procurement  and disbursement procedures.   Attempts to amend the financing
percentages eventually proved successful, three years after project start-up in



- v -
1987, but were difficult to negotiate because of the Malaysian Government
restrictions on external borrowing for recurrent cost expenditure.
Project Results
8.           Despite the slow start, the project was generally successful in
achieving its objectives. By the time of project completion, FRIM had emerged
as one of the leading tropical forestry research institutions in the world. This
status resulted in its being successful in attracting grant funds for
collaborative research with established research organizations throughout the
world.    FRIM became attractive to Malaysian scientific staff with a strong
program in training and upgrading capabilities. FRIMb research publications are
internationally recognized and the Institute has been a major force in the
development  of  the  rubberwood  industry.    Civil  works  and buildings  were
constructed on time and are being maintained satisfactorily and the research
facilities are well equipped. The one objective on which results were mixed, was
that of integrating Malaysiab  somewhat dissipated forestry research efforts
among the different State forestry research organizations. It was expected that
FRIM would take a strong role in integrating Malaysiab forest research effort.
Because  of  States   rights  over  land  and  forest  matters,  State  Forestry
Departments continued with separate programs, often duplicating topics and
missing others of greater relevance.
Project SustainabilitY
9.           Now that FRIMb  value to industry and sustainable forest management
has been successfully established, its ability to attract local and foreign
funding appears assured.   Donors remain committed to funding joint research
programs with FRIM, industry supports the timber utilization programs and
Government regards FRIM as the leader in developing the research base for
sustainable management of its unique forestry resource.
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.          The main lessons which emerged from the project and likely to be
relevant elsewhere are:
(i)    Research  is  intensive  in  recurrent  cost  expenditure.
Traditional design of project financing and disbursement is
likely to be unsuitable. Close collaboration with Bank
disbursement staff is needed early in the  project design
stage to design an administratively simple system related to
a financing percentage of the cost of the total program. In
retrospect, choosing to finance a percentage equivalent to
the foreign exchange component had no meaning.
(ii)   Amendments  to  the  disbursement  schedule  of  the  legal
documents proved difficult from the Borrowerh  end.   For
innovative projects, the degree of uncertainty is high and



- vi -
documents need to provide for a high degree of flexibility
to avoid the need for legal amendments to respond to changes
not affecting the projecth  basic objectives,  design and
other attributes.
(iii) A federalist system with states having constitutional rights
over land and forestry matters poses special problems for
implementation of national forest policy. The project started
the process of  integrating Malaysias   forestry research
effort, to a limited extent.    Important timber producing
states closely guarded against intervention in the sector.
This continues to restrict the success of developing and
implementing a national forest policy with due regard to
environmental sustainability.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL FORESTRY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln 2828-MA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Prolect Identity
Project Name                     National Forestry Research and
Development Project
Loan Number                      2828-MA
RVP Unit                         EAlAN
Country                          Malaysia
Sector                           Agriculture
Subsector                        Forestry
2.        Backaround
2.1       Malaysia's Forests contain more tree species than any other
ecosystem in the World. Timber production and exports have been major
contributors to the economy. However, development policy has given priority
to agriculture and mining in the allocation of land and forest resources have
declined precipitously. Nevertheless, in terms of exports and contributions
to state revenues, forestry remains a major sector.
2.2       Malaysia's topography and well distributed rainfall are eminently
suited to forestry. Of the total land area of 33 million ha, about 20 million
ha or 62% are covered by natural forest. Although much of the forest is
secondary growth, Malaysia retains one of the largest areas of tropical rain
forest in the world. These are noted for their rich species diversity and the
high value of the timber. However, the "timber boom" of 1974-84 saw large
areas cut over by loggers and much forest land planted to tree crops,
particularly oil palm. During this decade, the Peninsular States lost almost
1 million ha, and Sabah State almost 2 million ha of forest. Because of steep
and swampy terrain, Sarawak State suffered little depletion while lower cost
log alternative remained, particularly in Sabah.
2.3       Malaysia is one of the world's largest producers and exporters of
tropical timbers. Annual output is about 36 million cubic meters (mm3) of
timber products. Of this, some 23 Mm3 are exported annually, mostly as logs.
Production has declined due to weak demand, the depletion of easily accessible
timber supplies, and conservation measures under the National Forestry Policy.
Under the Malaysian Constitution, land is a State matter within the
jurisdiction of each of the 13 states and Foderal Territory that constitutes
the federation of Malaysia. As such, each state is empowered to enact
forestry laws and to formulate foreot policy independently. The executive



authority of the Federal Government only extends to research and maintenance
of experimental and demonstration stations, training and advice and technical
assistance to the states.
2.4       From the 1920a up to 1984 the Forest Research Institute (FRI)
operated as a subdivision of the Federal Forest Department. The main
achievements were the classification and timber testing of over 200 species of
tropical hardwoods and management of lowland dipterocarp forest. Its
development of grading rules for tropical hardwood timber was instrumental in
*nabling the acceptance of Malaysian processed timber exports on world
markets. As timber resources began to decline, the demand for research
services expanded and shifted towards conservation and reafforestation with a
particular focus for economic and policy analysis. In response, the
Government, assisted by the FAO/UNDP, studied the institutional changes
required. Subsequently, under the Malaysian Forestry Research and Development
Board Act, 1985, a statutory body called the Malaysian Forest Research and
Development Board (MFRDB) was formed. This Board reorganized FRI into the
Forest Research Institute of Malaysia (FRIM). The Act also made the Institute
a statutory body, managed by the MFRDB, responsible to the Minister of Primary
Industries.
2.5       Forestry Research Institute of Malavsia (FRIM)
The objectives of FRIM, under the MRFDB Act, include the following:
a.    to conduct and promote research into forest development
including the production, extraction, processing, storage,
transportation and utilization of forest produce and
rubberwood, and other fields appropriate to the continued
development of the forestry sector and the conservation of
the resource base;
b.    to collect, collate and disseminate information relating to
forest management and development, forest produce and forest
product utilization; and
c.    to coordinate activities within Malaysia relating to
research and development, publicity and other matters
relating to forest development and forest industries and to
liaise with bodies outside Malaysia concerned with these
matters.
2.6       In addition to forestry research, FRIM provides a variety of
forestry services. Technical consultancy services are provided on a range of
forestry topics and utilization of forest products. As an apex institution,
FRIM provides forestry extension services to state forestry departments and
the private sector. FRIM conducts training courses, provides genetically
superior planting material to state forestry departments and to the public,
and maintains a collection of forest species. In addition, FRIM publishes
periodicals and bulletins reporting research results on specific topics of
relevance to the timber industry.



3.        Project Objectives and Descriptions
3.1       The principal recommendations of the FAO/UNDP study of Malaysia's
forest research in 1984 was to change the status of the Forest Department's
research division, the Forest Research Institute, to a statutory body, in line
with the Rubber Research Institute and the Palm Oil Research Institute.
Subsequently, the 1985 Forestry Research and Development Board Act
reconstituted FRIM as a statutory body to undertake forestry research and
development and to coordinate State research activities. Support to FRIM was
identified as being suitable for Bank assistance in the Agricultural
Assessment Report (No. 6226-MA) of September 1986, when the Government
requested Bank funding for the new program. The Bank accepted the FAO/UNDP
report as project preparation since it involved detailed analysis of existing
and future research priorities and redeployment of staff and the need for
increased resources. Preparation was completed by a preappraisal mission in
October 1986, with appraisal in February 1987. Negotiations took place in
Kuala Lumpur in May 1987.
3.2       The project comprised a five-year (1987-91) time-slice of FRIM's
work program. The time-slice was estimated as necessary for FRIM to become
proficient in new fields of research. Specifically, the project funded an
agreed program of research and development activities through the engagement
of scientists and experts, on a consulting basis, to supplement the cadre of
50 professional staff already working in FRIM. The project also funded
vehicles, scientific equipment, and infrastructure, including laboratories,
office buildings and roads, required to strengthen FRIM's ability to sustain
its R&D program, and staff training. The research program was defined in
detail and supported the government's shift in forest research priority away
from logging for export to one of conservation, reforestation, environmental
protection and domestic processing of timber.
3.3       The project was to be implemented over five years. The major
components were:
(a) support to research in environmental science, natural forest
management, forest science, plantation forestry, timber
utilization, forest economics and rehabilitation of coastal
forests;
(b) support to staff development through training and fellowships
both in Malaysia and abroad; and
(c) construction of offices, an auditorium, a botanical museum,
roads, workshops and other facilities as well as experimental
tree planting and equipping of laboratories.
3.4       The total project costs were estimated at US$37.3 million based on
March 1987 prices. Of this, about US$28.3 million was local cost and US$9.0
million was the estimated foreign exchange cost. The project was to be
implemented over the period 1987-1991.



4.        Project Organization and Management
4.1       The project was to be implemented by FRIM under the direction of
MFRDB. No special arrangements for project implementation were considered
necessary as FRIM had adopted a new management structure just prior to project
identification. The components were to be administered by the four FRIM
Divisions of Forestry, Economic and Advisory Services, Administration and
Finance, and Forest products, each with a Director reporting to the Director-
General of FRIM. Independent of these divisions was the Research Evaluation
Unit responsible for monitoring progress and quality control.
5.        Project Implementation
5.1       Implementation got off to a slow start partly because of FRIM's
unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures and
partly because at the time of Loan approval the percentage of research
activities that could be financed by the loan had been set at an
unrealistically low figure (10%). An amendment to the Loan Agreement dated
April 30, 1990 raised this to 40%.
5.2       Following introduction of this loan amendment disbursements picked
up quite sharply.
SUMMARY OF PROJECT DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Disbursements (USS 000)
1987     1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Expected
Disbursements                  1,000    3,500   5,000   7,000   8,500    9,000
Actual Disbursements               0       240   1,130   2,680   4,820    7,000
a/   In January 1992 the loan amount was reduced to US$7.0 million, with
agreement of the Bank (see Preface above).
5.3       The project closed in June 1992 after a one year's extension with
US$2 million being cancelled. Although disbursements had increased with the
amendment of the disbursement schedule in the Loan Agreement, the Malaysian
Government did not want to continue paying commitment fees when FRIM had
developed to the point where cheaper funding was available. with the growth
of interest in tropical rain forest ecology, FRIM had become an important
partner in internationally collaborative research into this field.
5.4       No substantial implementation problems were encountered, other than
with disbursements. Civil works were constructed on time to acceptable
standards and are well maintained. The training and staff upgrading programs



- 5 -
were successful in attracting suitable research personnel and retaining them.
The appraisal had specified an independent review of FRM's performance at mid-
term and at closing. However, FRIM's performance was evaluated annually by an
independent research panel consisting generally of international experts and
found to be of high standard.
5.5       Project costs were US$33.9 million compared with the estimate at
appraisal of US$37.3 million mainly because of the amount cancelled. With
this type of project consisting mostly of recurrent costs, cost overruns
resulting from price increases in lumpy investments are not incurred.
6.        Project Results
6.1       Staff Development.  In 1986 FRIM's research staff numbered 50.  The
project staff development programs aimed to upgrade some existing staff and to
double the total professional staff. This target was achieved (over 100
professional scientific staff were in post by project completion in June
1992).
6.2       The staff development program included training arrangements with
local and overseas universities and forestry institutions, support for
research fellowships and courses at FRIM, backed up by technical assistance
from high calibre overseas consultants. The training and fellowship program
supported 100 staff. Professional staff with higher degrees rose from 34% of
staff at project inception to 62% by project completion.
6.3       Research.  FRIM's performance was reviewed by the Research Advisory
Committee (RAC),of the Malaysian Forestry Research and Development Board (an
independent statutory body), that met annually and made detailed
recommendations on research standards, research content and priorities. After
reviewing this research monitoring process and recommendations of the RAC and
finding them to be of high standard, these periodic reviews were accepted by
the Bank in lieu of a covenant that required an independent mid-term review of
project progress and performance.
6.4       The Bank's contribution to FRIM's development helped the
institution to consolidate and maintain its strong focus on utilization
related research, whilst at the same time broadening the scope of its research
programs to reflect emerging environmental and forest conservation and
management issues. Over the years FRIM had become a leader in the tropical
forest products research field. One of its major achievements had been the
documentation of the taxonomic and utilization properties of a wide range of
indigenous tree species, many of which are now in commercial use.
6.5       A manual on rattan documented the growth, yield and utilization
properties of the rattans of Peninsular Malaysia. These are now a major
resource for the development of rural industries.
6.6       FRIM pioneered rubberwood utilization research that made a major
contribution to expansion of trade in that timber from virtually zero in the
mid 1970s to over M$100 million per year by the mid 1980s.



- 6 -
6.7       During the project period, additional staff availability enabled
FRIM to undertake a more broadly based research program covering the areas of
hill dipterocarp and mangrove forest silviculture and management; plantation
silviculture and management, forest environment and resource management;
timber utilization; rubberwood utilization; non-wood forest products; chemical
utilization; wood chemistry; and techno-economic evaluation and information
technology.
6.8       FRIM's senior management remained highly committed to achievement
of project objectives throughout, and their enthusiasm and leadership played a
key role in contributing to the project's satisfactory performance.
Project Shortcomings
6.9       The main shortcoming of the project was its failure to develop
strong research networking arrangements on some high priority forest
establishment and management problem areas that urgently needed to be
addressed, both within Malaysia itself as well as in the region as a whole.
6.10      One good example of a research topic that called for high priority
treatment was the urgent need to focus on provenance selection, tree breeding
and improvement of a few fast growing plantation species such as Acacia
mangium that had been planted on a very large scale throughout the region.
Because of inadequate research, these plantation programs are in general using
inferior provenances and planting stock, and uncertain establishment and
silvicultural management practices. Prospects for producing timber or other
products of acceptable quality (apart from pulpwood) are currently poor.
6.11      Interventions by FRIM were successful in persuading GOM to
introduce a moratorium on further large scale planting of this species in
Peninsular Malaysia until such time as further research has been able to
clarify uncertainties about the technical growth, utilization properties,
marketing prospects and economic viability of Acacia mangium plantations.
6.12      Fast growing industrial plantation species will assume increasing
strategic importance in the region in the coming decades. Domestic demands for
utility grade timbers are escalating at faster rate than can be met by the
sustainable yield from natural forests. Countries such as Thailand, that were
formerly large scale exporters of high value timbers, are now importing
utility grade forest products on a massive scale. Compensatory plantation
programs that are now being undertaken in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah,
Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia and elsewhere in the region based on similar
species are in urgent need of underpinning with a well defined and focussed
regional research effort. FRIM can play a lead role in this area.
6.13      Part of the reason for FRIM's slowness in responding to the need to
develop strong collaborative research networking arrangements within Malaysia
itself is attributable to difficult political relationships that existed
between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak. These inhibited FRIM from
pressing too strongly to take a leadership role. The Bank could probably have



- 7 -
helped to overcome this constraint by more active involvement in regional
workshops on high priority themes.
6.14      Secondly there is no doubt that the extremely rapid staff expansion
that took place during the project period and the time needed for new and
quite young scientific staff to gain experience, made it difficult to for FRIM
staff to play a lead role in developing overseas networks. More recently FRIM
has become quite active in supporting the FORSPA research network for the
region.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
6.15      The most important finding of the project implementation experience
is that the Bank can play a positive role in strengthening of national
forestry research capability by supporting capacity building. The weakness of
many national forestry research institutions is a major constraint to more
effective conservation and management of forest resources. This was the first
attempt by the Bank to support a major forestry research institution and some
positive lessons of experience have emerged that will be of relevance to
future Bank work in this area.
6.16      Firstly the Bank can be influential in steering research priorities
to address obvious gaps in national research programs. In the case of FRIM
for example, the Bank pressed strongly in support of an RAC recommendation for
strengthening of the socio-economic policy analysis dimensions of FRIM's
various programs and this did have a positive impact.
6.17      Notwithstanding that observation, an issue for Bank consideration
is whether or not the Bank should have taken a stronger position at the time
of appraisal in developing a more broadly based dialogue on research
priorities and then using the project as a vehicle for encouraging a more
sharply focussed research program of relevance not only to Malaysia but also
to the region as a whole. By hindsight it may have made sense to have
organized a regional workshop during preparation and appraisal to discuss
common problems and research needs. From the outset the Bank could have used
its influence to encourage the creation of collaborative research networks on
these priority topics. It could have assisted FRIM in the development of a
strategic research agenda that would have concentrated resources on high
priority problem areas. Such regional research networking arrangements have
since emerged in the form of a regional, "Forestry Research Support Program
for Asia and the Pacific" and FRIM is heavily involved in that program.
6.18      A second issue with wider implications for future Bank work is the
question of technology transfer, which was singled out by the RAC as one of
the weak areas of FRIM performance that urgently needed to be addressed. The
RAC had recommended that FRIM take vigorous steps to strengthen linkages with
end users of its research results, particularly through collaborative
extension programs. Recently, in new projects such as the China National
Afforestation Project, (Credit 2145-CH of 1990) and India Maharashtra Forestry
(Credit 2328-IN of 1992), the Bank has introduced project components and



- 8 -
covenants that specifically tackle the issue of building more effective
bridges between research and field operations.
6.19      In the context of future operations the Bank could play a pro-
active role in fostering collaborative linkages between national research
agencies and international research centers such as those of the Consultative
Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), e.g. the Center for
International Forestry Research (CIFOR), and International Center for Research
in Agroforestry (ICRAF) both of which it supports as part of its financial
contribution to the CGIAR system.
7.        Project Sustainabilitv
7.1       No issues of sustainability are anticipated.  Government, industry,
the universities and the international forestry agencies are actively involved
in supporting FRIM. In fact, the increased attention to issues in tropical
rainforest management and preservation has increased the relevance and
importance of FRIMs work. A follow-up project had been considered but
availability of local and foreign concessional funding for FRIM made this
unnecessary.
8.        IDA Performance
8.1       IDAs  performance was generally thought to be satisfactory except
in the matter of disbursements which related to a design flaw compounded by
unnecessarily complex procedures required to make needed changes.   There was
no reason to tie the project financing percentage (24%) to the foreign
exchange equivalent. This led to an unusually low level of only 10t financing
for the research program after high disbursement percentages for equipment,
civil works, consultants and other items. Given that the prime objective of
the project was to support the research program directly, a higher share of
the total cost should have been considered. In the first year of project
implementation, no disbursements were made at a time when Bank assistance was
most needed, because of its small share in a program just beginning to build
up. A more careful analysis of expected expenditure patterns at appraisal
would have given rise to a more realistic disbursement projection and a
probable adjustment in financing arrangements.
9.        Borrowers Performance
9.1       The performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory.  Full
support was given to the project at all times and FRIM senior staff carried
out their project management functions with dedication. The Action Plan of
measures on policy and institutional development was diligently carried out.
A new Forest Policy Statement was issued and enabling legislation was passed,
FRIM was reconstituted as a statutory body, external reviews were carried out
and a staff development plan was implemented.
10.       Project Relationship
10.1      There were no issues of concern.



-9-
11.       Consulting Services
11.1      The performance of  consultants, mainly in research and training,
was considered satisfactory.
12.       Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The Loan Agreement and supporting documentation were adequate for
the project needs. Because of the nature of this project in supporting a
program of multiple research activities, individual expenditures were mostly
small and did not require detailed preparation and analysis with large
documentation.



- 10 -
Project Completion Report
Malaysia
National Forestry Research And Development Project
(Ln. 2828-MA)
PART II: Borrower's Comments
1.           From our knowledge the Bank rarely funds forestry research per so,
so it was very encouraging to discover that the Bank responded positively to the
GOM's request to fund FRIM's development by way of this project. The project
officially started in August 1987.  While we in FRIM recognize that by early
1992, the Bank had acceded to a GOM request that US$2.0 million be cancelled from
the total loan amount of US$9.0 million because this money was no longer needed,
as the financial circumstances of FRIM had greatly improved, it must be stressed
that the situation prior to, and during the loan negotiation period in 1986-87
was somewhat different. At that time, FRIM was merely one year in existence and
funding mechanisms and funding opportunities were still unsettled; there was
genuine concern that the development plans for FRIM may be stymied by
insufficient funds.
2.           Concerning the progress of the project, after a rather hesitant
start, due mainly to unfamiliarity with Bank reimbursement procedures, things
went smoothly until loan closure in June 1992. For this we need to thank EAlAN
who, on discovering that there were problems associated with Bank reimbursements,
very quickly helped to resolve them.
3.           One main element of the project activities was training of newly
recruited FRIM scientists.   For this, FROM adopted the model of scientists
working on local research problems for a "split" PhD degree, a departure from the
past approach of the FRIM scientists absent overseas from FRIM for the entire
duration of the training.
4.           EAlAN understood the training objectives of FRIM and this  is
reflected in the funding of the research and development project at the Sabah
Forest Industries (SFI), a state-owned integrated pulp and paper company, using
Bank-administered Japanese Trust Fund, in which various FRIM scientists were
appointed resource persons. This SFI project provided much needed opportunities
for FRIM scientists to be involved in problem-solving research on the ground.
The project began in September 1990 and at that time of preparation of this
report, the project activities were still on-going, albeit on a much reduced
scale because a private company had taken over the running of SFI since late
1993.
5.           In  conclusion,  FRIM  and  the  Malaysian  forestry  Research  and
Development Board are extremely grateful to the Bank and the GOM for agreeing to
this loan project which provided critical support during the early stages of
FRIM's development.



Proiect Completion Report
Malaysia
National Forestry Research And Development Project
(Ln. 2828-MA)
Part III: Statistical Information
1.   Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan No.               Title/purpose         Approval               Status
Loan 637-MA         Jengka Forestry Project    1970                 Completed
Construction and
Operation of a
sawmill/plywood plant.
Loan 2550-MA        Sabah Technical             1986                Completed
Assistance Project
Establishment of a pot
scale research
planation, pilot scale
tree farming credit
scheme, marketing and
other studies
2.   Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Latest Estimates
Identification                   Sept. 1986              Sept. 86
Preparation                      Oct.  1986               Oct. 86
Appraisal                         Feb. 1987               Feb. 87
Negotiations                       May 1987               May  87
Board Presentation                June 1987               June 87
Signing                          August 1987              Aug. 87
Effectiveness                     Sept. 1987             Sept. 87
Project completion                Dec. 1991               June 92
Loan closing                      Dec. 1991               June 92



- 12 -
3.   Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement (USS thousands)
FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91    FY 92
Appraisal estimate            1,000   3,500   5,000   7,000   7,000   7,000 1/
Actual                          0       240    1,130   2,680   4,820   7,000
Actual as % of estimate         0       15       23       38       69       100
Date of final                                                               June
disbursement
1/   Loan amount reduced from $9.0 million to US$ 7.0 million with cancellation
of US$2 million.
4.   Project Costs and Financing
A: Project Cost
Appraisal  Estimate            Actual   Estimate
Local       Foreign    (US$M)  Local    Foreign   (US$M)
cost        costs     Total   costs    costs        Total
Item
Research Program  24,164        3,166      27,330  22,958    1,166    24,124
Civil Work           1,916      1,142       3,058    1,886    1,142     3,028
Vehicles Equipt.        -       3,497       3,497    -        3,497     3,497
Training               727        727       1,454      727      727     1,454
Total Base cost    26,807       8,532      35,339  25,571    6,532    32,103
Phys. cont.            192        114         306      174      108       282
Price cont.          1,303        381       1,684    1,250      360     1,610
TOTALS              28,302      9,027      37,329  26,995   7 ,000      33,995



- 13 -
B. Project Financing
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                     (US$M)
Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign  Total
Source                      costs   costs      Total    costs    costs
IBRD/IDA                            9,000      9,000            7,000    7,600
Cofinancing institutions
Other external sources
Domestic contribution       28,302             28,302
26,995            26,995
TOTAL                 28,302   9,000    37,329  26,995    7,000  33,995



- 14 -
5.     Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Section       Covenant        Status2/       Original Date       Revised Date      Description
Type 1/
Sched. 5            1(a)           GC              C         09/30/87            09/30/87          Select research
projects under Part
A in accordance with
objectives
acceptable to the
Bank
1(b)           GC              C         09/30/87           09/30/87           ImpLement research
projects in
accordance with an
action plan and the
schedule acceptable
to the Bank
1(c)           GC              C         09/30/87            12/31/88          Furnish to the Bank
a long-term research
plan
2(a)           GC              C         12/31/87            12/31/87          Appoint as FRIM
Dept. Directors
persons with
qualifications
acceptable to the
Bank
2(b)           PIA             C         06/30/88            06/30/88          EmpLoy consultants
to asst in
implementation of
staff training
3(a)           PIA             C         07/31/89            07/31/89          Appoint a panel of
experts acceptabLe
to the Bank to carry
out an independent
review of the
research prograrimme3/
3(b)           PIA             C         06/30/89            06/30/89          Appoint a panel of
experts to carry out
a Mid-Term Review4/
4.01(b)           F              C         Nine months                          Audited accounts to
after end of                         be sent to the Bank
each financial
year
1/     Covenant Types: GC = General Conditions, PIA = Project Implementation Arrangements, F = Financial Requirements
2/     Status:  C = Covenants complied with, CD = Covenants complied with after delay, CP = Complied with partially,
NC = Not complied with
3/ & 4/Bank accepted a prearranged independent panel appointed by FRIM plus periodic reviews by the Research
Advisory Committee of the Malaysian Forestry Research and Development Board in lieu of the requirements of these
covenants.



- 15 -
6.   Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                Actual
Stage of
project cycle    Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$      Weeks        US$
Through             20      60,000      8(1)      24,000        8       24,000
appraisal
Appraisal-          4        12,000      4        12,000        4       12,000
Board
Board-              2        6,000       2         6,000        2        6,000
effectiveness
Supervision         30      90,000      24        72,000       24       72,000
Completion          2        6,000       2         6,000        2        6,000
TOTAL          58      174,000      40      120,000       40       120,000
1/   Bank found an already completed FAO/UNDP survey of FIRM, a satisfactory
basis for project preparation and appraisal.
2/   Above estimated staff week costs, are approximations. (Dollar budgeting had
not ben introduced during the period under review)



7.     Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized           Implemen-
Stage of                  Month/              Number of            Days in      staff skilLs           tation             Devel.             Types of
project cycle             year                persons              field        represented            objectives          obiective         problems
Through appraisal         03/86                        2                10      E, F.1/
Appraisal through         08/87                        2                        E, F
Board approval
Board approval            09/87                        1                        E
through effectiveness
Supervision               87-92                      2 2/               70      E, F, C                14/                 1
Completion                06/94                        1                        F                                                            A
1/     E = Economist, F = Forestry Specialist and C = Consultant Forestry Research.
2/     A total of six supervision missions were carried out.  The average mission comprised two staff and or 1 Bank staff plus consultant.
_/     Consultant forestry research specialist who subsequently became a Bank Staff member.
4/     Form 590 Ratings as at Project Completion were:
Overall Status                                  1      Procurement progress               1
Project Development                             1     Training progress                   1
Objectives                                          Technical Assistance                1
Compliance with covenants                       1      Studies                            1
Project Management Performance                  1     Environmental aspects               1
Availability of Funds                           1      Financial performance              1



IOC-                                      104           -   *                        }2t- -                                     10A-  iolr- -; i2202
MALAYSIA
NATIONAL FORESTRY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                        PHILIPPINES
THAILAND                                                                                      Roads                                                                             /
__-RolIods
4-   Ports                                                                                         - ^
-'                                                           4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports                                   BENGKOKA PENINSULAR      ..-
R I vers                                                      SARAH FORES TA Y TECHNICAL ,
Forested Arms                                     ~~~~~~~~~~ASSISTANCE PROJECT *
0-2'°°  -State or Div,sion Boundaries                                               PANTAI                 ?IFORESTRY
~~~~~3/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~v e0r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                     L~~~BRA  ,r         REEAC
lInte-not,onal Bgoundories                                                                                ES E' PLANTATION
9  N                              0         00        200       300       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~SIPITANG
.40METIERS                                                PULP AND PAPEAK
AK BX  X   </   i  ,    ;                                                                                                                 ERUUNEI                 0                                (/
<'7K'                                          //   I.**~                             -  ,                                .                             _ ' C  f -~ s) i f ;~7:A
.E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .yt                                                                                                              4-p JG Ano
ee<in.'v                                                                                                                                  KEEMPAT
SU K T   KE FtNO    FOREST     /        _t                                                                                   f           -                           -
INSTITriUTE                                 NOEi/
OF MAL A YA                                     /I N                             D N E  S (AW                                         /
yF d . rSdOa     /                       ~                        \                      }          , 5 A R 7WFY A .   \ _4K
-, -= <                                   -     <             . KETUJUH                                                  -,
S.                          -rCP ,Y tlli ORE                             -
I N  D O N E S I A             t'iN DO N ESIAh_ofw
0--f~~~~/ A  //.CA   rir A                                         is.. .v., ot,,     6.,, 
DONESIA                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       ~        ~~~~~~I N  D 0  N  E S I A 
104' -                                      18                                           112-                                        'inL A A                            0-



