Page  1
                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                    LOAN NUMBER 2828 MA
                    Loan Agreement
 (National Forestry Research and Development Project)
                        between
                       MALAYSIA
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                 Dated August 14, 1987
                                    LOAN NUMBER 2828 MA
                    LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1987, between MALAYSIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
Page  2
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Act" means the Malaysian Forestry Research and
Development Board Act, 1985 (Act No. 319);
     (b)  "FRIM" means the Forest Research Institute of
Malaysia established and operating under the Act; and
     (c)  "Policy Summary" means the Summary of National
Forest Policy of the Borrower, dated May 11, 1987.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million dollars
($9,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1992 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per
annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percent per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.
          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each
Page  3
year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project through FRIM with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and forestry
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause FRIM to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of FRIM.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause FRIM to:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial
               statements (statements of income and
               expenses and related statements) for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,
               (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning such records,
                    accounts and financial statements
                    and the audit thereof as the Bank
                    shall from time to time reasonably
                    request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause
Page  4
FRIM to:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                       ARTICLE V
                    Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FRIM:
     (a)  to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
     (b)  to carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and forestry practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
     (c)  at all times to operate and to maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and forestry practices.
                      ARTICLE VI
                 Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  The Act or any provision thereof, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to materially and adversely affect the operations or
the condition of FRIM.
     (b)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of FRIM or for the
suspension of its operations.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
Page  5
specified, namely, that any event specified in Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                      ARTICLE VII
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                     ARTICLE VIII
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Treasury
          Jalan Duta
          50592 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia
          Cable address:           Telex:
               TREASURY              MA 30242
               Kuala Lumpur          MA 32369
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                     64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               MALAYSIA
               By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
               By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(1)    Works            1,400,000       37%
(2)    Goods            3,200,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures,
                                        100% of local
                                        expenditures
                                        (ex-factory
                                        cost) and 75%
                                        of local expen-
                                        ditures for
                                        other items pro-
                                        cured locally
(3)    Research         2,400,000       10%
   Activities
(4)    Consultants'       600,000       100%
   Services
(5)    Training           700,000       50%
(6)    Unallocated        700,000
       TOTAL            9,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $900,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1987.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the
Borrower in further developing the forestry sector, to
strengthen the capabilities of the Forest Research
Institute of Malaysia, and to support its efforts in
Page  7
carrying out research in forestry related areas.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A.   Research Programs
     Carrying out by FRIM of research in forestry related
subjects through:
     (1)  strengthening of staff;
     (2)  provision of technical assistance;
     (3)  delivery of services and supplies;
     (4)  operation and maintenance of equipment; and
     (5)  establishment of research plantations.
Part B.   Civil Works
     Construction and improvement of works at FRIM
headquarters and field stations.
Part C:   Equipment and Vehicles
     Provision of equipment and vehicles for FRIM
activities.
Part D:   Training
     Training of FRIM staff.
                        *  *  *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1991.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1990
     through  April 15, 2002            375,000
________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar
Page  8
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.
                Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the
purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                              The interest rate (ex-
                              pressed as a percentage
                              per annum) applicable to
                              the balance outstanding
                              on the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                    0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but                   0.87
     not more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                1.00
     before maturity
                      SCHEDULE 4
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Malaysia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for construction of the FRIM auditorium
and office block shall be awarded in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   Other works may be carried out either under
contracts awarded following local procurement practices,
or under force account by the Public Works Department,
all in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
Page  9
3.   Contracts for goods grouped in packages costing the
equivalent of $250,000 or less each, may be awarded in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.   Miscellaneous items of goods grouped in packages
estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of $50,000
and up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $500,000, may be procured in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
quotations from at least three suppliers.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods
estimated for cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
                      SCHEDULE 5
                Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall cause FRIM:
     (a)  to select research projects under Part A of the
Project in accordance with objectives satisfactory to the
Bank;
     (b)  to implement research projects under Part A of
the Project in accordance with an action plan and time
schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (c)  to furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1988,
a long term research plan with staffing and budgetary
requirements.
2.   The Borrower shall cause FRIM:
     (a)  To appoint persons with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank:
          (i)  by December 31, 1987 as FRIM Department
Page  10
               Directors; and
          (ii) by June 30, 1988 as FRIM Branch Heads.
     (b)  To employ in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, by June 30,
1988 consultants to assist in implementation of research
projects and staff training.
     (c)  To implement training under Part D of the
Project in accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Bank.
     (d)  To select trainees under the Project, in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   (a)  In order to carry out reviews of the FRIM
research program, the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1989
and by July 31, 1991, appoint a panel of experts with
composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall cause to be completed in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank:
          (i)  by the first panel of experts, a mid-term
               review of the FRIM research program by
               June 30, 1989; and
          (ii) by the second panel of experts, a final
               review by December 31, 1991.
4.   The Borrower shall take all measures within its
means to ensure that proceeds of the cess collected
pursuant to the Act are allocated to forestry research
activities.
5.   The Borrower shall maintain the Policy Summary in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
